FILE:MRO/MRO-8K-20041129170932.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This amendment to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 18, 2004 and filed March 22, 2004 of Marathon Oil Corporation ("Marathon") is being filed to reclassify Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4 as Exhibits 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 and 2.5, respectively. In accordance with Rule 12b-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the text of the amended item is set forth in its entirety in the pages attached hereto. In addition, the Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC and the Put/Call Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement were filed as Exhibits 10(n) and 10(o), respectively, on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and are being refiled to include all attachments.
 
 
(a) Financial Statements
 
None.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
 
None.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 2.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
MASTER AGREEMENT dated as of March 18, 2004, among Ashland Inc., a Kentucky corporation (""), ATB Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Ashland (""), EXM LLC, a Kentucky limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of HoldCo (""), New EXM Inc., a Kentucky corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of HoldCo (""), Marathon Oil Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), Marathon Oil Company, an Ohio corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Marathon (""), Marathon Domestic LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Marathon (""), and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC, a Delaware limited liability company owned by Marathon Company and Ashland as set forth below ("").
Ashland
HoldCo
New Ashland LLC
New Ashland Inc.
Marathon
Marathon Company
Merger Sub
MAP
 
WHEREAS the Marathon Parties (as defined in Section 14.02) wish to acquire from Ashland, and Ashland wishes to transfer to the Marathon Parties, Ashland's maleic anhydride business and associated plant in Neal, West Virginia (the "") and a number of Valvoline Instant Oil Change centers owned by Ashland (the "") located in the states of Ohio and Michigan;
Maleic Business
VIOC Centers
 
WHEREAS, on January 1, 1998, Ashland and Marathon Company contributed certain petroleum supply, refining, marketing and transportation businesses to MAP and entered into a limited liability company agreement to set forth their rights and responsibilities with respect to the governance, financing and operation of MAP;
 
WHEREAS Ashland owns a 38% interest in MAP and Marathon Company owns a 62% interest in MAP;
 
WHEREAS Ashland holds a 4% interest in LOOP LLC and an 8.62% interest in LOCAP LLC;
 
WHEREAS the parties hereto have structured the transfers described above as a series of transactions, as a result of which:
 
(i) Ashland will transfer to HoldCo the Maleic Business, the VIOC Centers and Ashland's interests in MAP, LOOP LLC and LOCAP LLC, and HoldCo will assume certain related liabilities of Ashland;
 
(ii) the Marathon Parties will acquire HoldCo;
 
(iii) New Ashland Inc. will succeed to all the assets and liabilities of Ashland (other than those transferred to or assumed by HoldCo or any Marathon Party under this Agreement or any of the other Transaction Agreements (as defined below)), including the proceeds of a partial redemption of Ashland's interest in MAP; and
 
(iv) the issued and outstanding shares of Ashland common stock, par value $1.00 per share, including the associated Ashland Rights (as defined in Section 6.03(a)) (the ""), will be canceled and Ashland's shareholders will receive, with respect to each share of Ashland Common Stock, one share of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock (as defined in Section 14.02), to be issued by New Ashland Inc. in consideration of the assets acquired by it in the Conversion Merger and the benefits to be derived therefrom, and a number of shares of Marathon common stock, par value $1.00 per share (the ""), to be determined as set forth in this Agreement;
Ashland Common Stock
Marathon Common Stock
 
WHEREAS, simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, certain of the parties hereto are entering into:
 
(i) an Assignment and Assumption Agreement providing for the transfer of the Maleic Business to HoldCo and the assumption by HoldCo of certain related liabilities (the "");
Maleic Agreement
 
(ii) an Assignment and Assumption Agreement providing for the transfer of the VIOC Centers to HoldCo and the assumption by HoldCo of certain related liabilities (the "");
VIOC Agreement
 
(iii) a Tax Matters Agreement (the ""); and
Tax Matters Agreement
 
(iv) Amendment No. 2 to the MAP LLC Agreement (as defined in Section 14.02) (the "" and, together with this Agreement, the Maleic Agreement, the VIOC Agreement and the Tax Matters Agreement, the "");
MAP LLC Agreement Amendment
Transaction Agreements
 
WHEREAS the Board of Directors of Ashland has unanimously: (i) adopted and approved the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements (as defined in Section 6.04(a)) and the transactions contemplated thereby (the "") and (ii) recommended that Ashland's shareholders approve the Transaction Agreements and the Transactions;
Transactions
 
WHEREAS the Board of Directors of Marathon has unanimously adopted and approved the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements and approved the Transactions;
 
WHEREAS it is intended that the Transactions to be consummated on the Closing Date will generally be Tax-free to the parties and their respective shareholders for Federal income Tax purposes (as Tax is defined in Section 14.02); and
 
WHEREAS the parties desire to make certain representations, warranties, covenants and agreements in connection with the Transactions and also to prescribe various conditions to the Transactions.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
 
Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, at the Closing (as defined in Section 1.05), the parties shall consummate the MAP Partial Redemption and each of the other Transactions set forth in Sections 1.02, 1.03 and 1.04 as follows. Subject to Section 9.10, the parties hereto intend that none of the Transactions that this Article I contemplates will be effected on the Closing
 
Date (as defined in Section 1.05) shall be effective unless all of such Transactions are effected on the Closing Date.
 
SECTION 1.01. As part of the Transactions, but prior to consummating the other Transactions set forth in Sections 1.02, 1.03 and 1.04, MAP shall redeem a portion of the 38% Membership Interest (as defined in Section 14.02) owned by Ashland for a redemption price payable as follows: (i) accounts receivable of MAP, each with a Federal income Tax basis no less than its face amount, selected in accordance with the protocol set forth in Exhibit A, with a total Value (as defined in Section 14.02) equal to the product of (x) the Estimated MAP Partial Redemption Amount (as defined in Section 14.02) and (y) the AR Fraction (as defined in Section 14.02) (such product, the "") (the "") and (ii) cash in an amount equal to the Estimated MAP Partial Redemption Amount minus the AR Amount (such difference, the ""), by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an Ashland bank account which shall be designated in writing by Ashland at least two business days prior to the Closing Date (the ""). MAP shall increase the MAP Partial Redemption Amount (as defined in Section 14.02) payable in the MAP Partial Redemption as directed by Marathon if Marathon determines, in its sole judgment after giving due consideration to the requirements of any potentially applicable fraudulent transfer or conveyance Law, that the aggregate amount of the MAP Partial Redemption Amount (before giving effect to such increase) and the Capital Contribution (as defined in Section 1.03(b)) is not reasonably equivalent to the aggregate value immediately prior to the consummation of the Transactions, as determined by Marathon in its sole discretion, of (i) Ashland's Membership Interest, (ii) the Maleic Business and (iii) the VIOC Centers. In the event that Marathon makes the determination contemplated by the immediately preceding sentence, any resulting increase in the MAP Partial Redemption Amount shall be payable in any combination of cash and accounts receivable of MAP as determined by Marathon. If at any time Marathon determines that it is reasonably likely to direct MAP to increase the MAP Partial Redemption Amount pursuant to the second sentence of this Section 1.01, Marathon shall provide prompt notice of such determination to Ashland, including a good faith estimate of any such increase.
MAP Partial Redemption.
AR Amount
Distributed Receivables
Cash Amount
MAP Partial Redemption
 
SECTION 1.02. Promptly following the consummation of the MAP Partial Redemption pursuant to Section 1.01, and prior to consummating the Transactions set forth in Sections 1.03 and 1.04, the parties shall consummate each of the following Transactions:
Maleic/VIOC Contribution; MAP/LOOP/LOCAP Contribution; Reorganization Merger.
 
(a) Ashland shall cause the transactions contemplated by the Maleic Agreement and the VIOC Agreement, including the contribution by Ashland to HoldCo of the Maleic Business and the VIOC Centers and the assumption by HoldCo of certain related liabilities, to be consummated in accordance with the Maleic Agreement and the VIOC Agreement (the "").
Maleic/VIOC Contribution.
Maleic/VIOC Contribution
 
(b) Promptly following the consummation of the Maleic/VIOC Contribution pursuant to Section 1.02(a), (i) Ashland shall cause the MAP/LOOP/LOCAP Contribution Agreements (as defined in Section 14.02) to be executed and delivered by the parties specified therein to be parties thereto, and Ashland shall contribute to HoldCo Ashland's remaining Membership Interest and, subject to Section 9.10, the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest (as defined in Section 14.02), and HoldCo shall assume certain related liabilities and obligations, in accordance with the MAP/LOOP/LOCAP Contribution Agreements, (ii) if Ashland has not been released from all liabilities, obligations and commitments under the LOCAP T&D Agreement in accordance with Section 9.03(g), Ashland shall cause the LOCAP T&D Assumption Agreement (as defined in Section 14.02) to be executed and delivered by the parties specified therein to be parties thereto and (iii) if Ashland has not been released from all liabilities, obligations and commitments under the LOOP T&D Agreement in accordance with Section 9.03(g), Ashland shall cause the LOOP T&D Assumption Agreement (as defined in Section 14.02) to be executed and delivered by the parties specified therein to be parties thereto (collectively, the "").
MAP/LOOP/LOCAP Contribution.
MAP/LOOP/LOCAP Contribution
 
(c) Promptly following the consummation of the MAP/LOOP/LOCAP Contribution pursuant to Section 1.02(b), Ashland shall, pursuant to Article II and in accordance with the Kentucky Business Corporation Act (the "") and the Kentucky
The Reorganization Merger.
KBCA
 
Limited Liability Company Act (the ""), be merged with and into New Ashland LLC (the "") at the Reorganization Merger Effective Time (as defined in Section 2.02), which, if not the time of filing of the Reorganization Articles of Merger (as defined in Section 2.02) in accordance with Section 2.02, shall be a time mutually agreed upon by Ashland and Marathon.
KLLCA
Reorganization Merger
 
SECTION 1.03. Promptly following the consummation of the Maleic/VIOC Contribution, the MAP/LOOP/LOCAP Contribution and the Reorganization Merger pursuant to Section 1.02, the parties shall consummate each of the following Transactions:
HoldCo Borrowing; Capital Contribution; Conversion Merger.
 
(a) Promptly following the Reorganization Merger Effective Time, the Marathon Parties shall cause the HoldCo Borrowing (as defined in Section 14.02) to be advanced to HoldCo by one or more lenders that are not affiliates of MAP, any Marathon Party or any Ashland Party ("") and HoldCo shall accept the HoldCo Borrowing. If Marathon guarantees or otherwise provides credit support for the HoldCo Borrowing, Marathon and HoldCo shall enter into a reimbursement agreement (the ""), pursuant to which HoldCo shall commit to pay a guarantee fee to Marathon after the Closing and, if requested by Marathon prior to the Closing Date, shall grant to Marathon on the Closing Date a security interest in all the property and other assets (including the Membership Interest) that HoldCo owns to secure its reimbursement obligations to Marathon, to the fullest extent permitted by Contracts (as defined in Section 6.05(a)) to which Ashland or any Ashland Subsidiary is a party or by which any of their respective properties or assets is bound. Such security interest shall be released (other than with respect to assets of the surviving entity of the Acquisition Merger (as defined in Section 1.04(a)) at the Acquisition Merger Effective Time (or, if earlier, upon the New Ashland Inc. Share Issuance). The Reimbursement Agreement shall provide that: (i) the guarantee fee shall be payable after Closing; and (ii) the reimbursement obligations to Marathon shall not exceed the net amount of the HoldCo Borrowing actually received by HoldCo.
HoldCo Borrowing.
Third Party Lenders
Reimbursement Agreement
 
(b) Promptly following the consummation of the HoldCo Borrowing pursuant to Section 1.03(a), HoldCo shall contribute to New Ashland LLC
Capital Contribution.
 
cash in the amount equal to the total amount of the HoldCo Borrowing, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a New Ashland LLC bank account designated in writing by Ashland at least two business days prior to the Closing Date (the "").
Capital Contribution
 
(c) Promptly following the consummation of the Capital Contribution pursuant to Section 1.03(b), pursuant to Article III and in accordance with the KLLCA and the KBCA, New Ashland LLC shall be merged with and into New Ashland Inc. (the "") at the Conversion Merger Effective Time (as defined in Section 3.02), which, if not the time of filing of the Conversion Articles of Merger (as defined in Section 3.02) in accordance with Section 3.02, shall be a time mutually agreed upon by Ashland and Marathon.
Conversion Merger.
Conversion Merger
 
SECTION 1.04. (a) Promptly following the Conversion Merger Effective Time, pursuant to Article IV and in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "") and the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (the ""), HoldCo shall be merged with and into Merger Sub (the "") at the Acquisition Merger Effective Time.
Acquisition Merger; Distribution.
DGCL
DLLCA
Acquisition Merger
 
(b) In the event that the Private Letter Rulings (as defined in Section 10.01(f)) do not provide that the Acquisition Merger will be treated as a distribution by HoldCo of all the stock of New Ashland Inc. under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), followed by a merger of HoldCo into Merger Sub, then the parties hereto shall execute an appropriate amendment to this Agreement to provide that the New Ashland Inc. Share Issuance (as defined in Section 6.05(b)) shall not be effected as part of the Acquisition Merger but instead the shares of New Ashland Inc. to be issued thereunder shall be issued to HoldCo as part of the Conversion Merger, followed by the distribution thereof by HoldCo to the holders of HoldCo Common Stock (as defined in Section 2.04(a)(i)), on the basis of one share of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock for each outstanding share of HoldCo Common Stock, immediately prior to the Acquisition Merger.
Code
 
SECTION 1.05. The closing of the Transactions (the "") shall take place at the offices of MAP, 539 South Main Street, Findlay, Ohio 45840
Closing.
Closing
 
at 10:00 a.m. (Eastern time) on the last business day of the calendar month in which the last to be satisfied (or, to the extent permitted by Law (as defined in Section 6.05(a)), waived by the parties entitled to the benefits thereof) of the conditions set forth in Article X (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied on the Closing Date, but subject to the satisfaction or waiver of those conditions) has been so satisfied or waived, or, if the last such condition is satisfied or waived on one of the last two business days of a calendar month, on the last business day of the following calendar month, or at such other place, time and date as shall be agreed in writing between Ashland and Marathon. The date on which the Closing occurs is referred to in this Agreement as the "". If Ashland and Marathon agree that the Closing is expected to occur on December 31, 2004, the parties shall use their reasonable best efforts to agree on closing mechanics to effect the Transactions on such date, which may include: (i) the filing of the Reorganization Articles of Merger, the Conversion Articles of Merger and the Acquisition Certificate of Merger prior to December 31, 2004, in each case specifying an effective time on December 31, 2004 and (ii) advancement of the HoldCo Borrowing to an escrow account for the benefit of HoldCo at a pre-closing prior to December 31, 2004 to ensure that the proceeds of the Capital Contribution will be available to New Ashland Inc. on the Closing Date for consummation of the tender offer and/or consent solicitation contemplated by Section 9.03(b).
Closing Date
 
SECTION 1.06. Within 90 days after the Closing Date (subject to extension with the prior written consent of New Ashland Inc., such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), MAP shall prepare and deliver to Ashland a statement setting forth the MAP Partial Redemption Amount. If the MAP Partial Redemption Amount exceeds the Estimated MAP Partial Redemption Amount, MAP shall, and if the Estimated MAP Partial Redemption Amount exceeds the MAP Partial Redemption Amount, New Ashland Inc. shall, make payment to the other party of the amount of such excess, together with interest thereon at a rate equal to the rate of interest from time to time announced publicly by Citibank, N.A., as its prime rate, calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed divided by 365, from the Closing Date to the date of payment. Payment by MAP to New Ashland Inc. under this
Post-Closing True-Up.
 
Section 1.06 shall be in an amount of cash and accounts receivable of MAP (such accounts receivable to be selected in accordance with the protocol set forth in Exhibit A) within 30 days of the determination by MAP of the MAP Partial Redemption Amount. The total Value of the accounts receivable payable by MAP under this Section 1.06 shall equal the product of (i) the total amount of the payment owed by MAP to New Ashland Inc. under this Section 1.06 and (ii) the AR Fraction. Payment made by New Ashland Inc. to MAP under this Section 1.06 shall be made in cash within 30 days after receipt by New Ashland Inc. of the statement setting forth the MAP Partial Redemption Amount. All cash payments under this Section 1.06 shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to an Ashland bank account or a MAP bank account, as applicable, which shall be designated in writing by Ashland or MAP, as applicable, at least two business days prior to the date for such payment.
 
 
 
SECTION 2.01. The names of the constituent business entities that are parties to the Reorganization Merger are Ashland Inc. (referred to herein as "Ashland") and EXM LLC (referred to herein as "New Ashland LLC"). Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, at the Reorganization Merger Effective Time, Ashland shall merge with and into New Ashland LLC, the separate corporate existence of Ashland shall cease and New Ashland LLC shall be the surviving business entity of the Reorganization Merger. The name of the surviving business entity of the Reorganization Merger shall be EXM LLC.
Parties to the Reorganization Merger.
 
SECTION 2.02. Prior to the Closing, Ashland shall prepare, and on the Closing Date, New Ashland LLC shall file with the Secretary of State of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, articles of merger or other appropriate documents (in any such case, the "") executed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the KBCA and the KLLCA and shall make all other filings or recordings required under the KBCA and the KLLCA. The Reorganization Merger shall become effective at such time
Reorganization Merger Effective Time.
Reorganization Articles of Merger
 
as the Reorganization Articles of Merger are duly filed with such Secretary of State, or at such later time on the Closing Date as specified in the Reorganization Articles of Merger (the time the Reorganization Merger becomes effective being the "").
Reorganization Merger Effective Time
 
SECTION 2.03. The Reorganization Merger shall have the effects set forth in KRS 271B.11-060 of the KBCA and KRS 275.365 of the KLLCA. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject thereto, at the Reorganization Merger Effective Time, all the properties, rights, privileges and powers of Ashland immediately prior to the Reorganization Merger Effective Time shall rest in New Ashland LLC, and all debts, liabilities, obligations and duties of Ashland immediately prior to the Reorganization Merger Effective Time shall become the debts, liabilities, obligations and duties of New Ashland LLC.
Effects.
 
SECTION 2.04. (a) At the Reorganization Merger Effective Time, by virtue of the Reorganization Merger and without any action on the part of any holder of any shares of Ashland Common Stock or any limited liability company interests in New Ashland LLC (""):
Conversion of Ashland Securities.
New Ashland LLC Interests
 
(i) subject to Section 2.05, each share of Ashland Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Reorganization Merger Effective Time shall be converted into and thereafter represent one duly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of HoldCo (the "") (the ""); and
HoldCo Common Stock
Reorganization Merger Consideration
 
(ii) all New Ashland LLC Interests shall remain outstanding without change.
 
(b) As of the Reorganization Merger Effective Time, all shares of Ashland Common Stock shall no longer be outstanding, shall automatically be canceled and retired and shall cease to exist, and each holder of a certificate formerly evidencing shares of Ashland Common Stock shall, subject to Section 2.05, cease to have any rights with respect thereto except the right to receive the number of shares of HoldCo Common Stock into which such shares of
 
Ashland Common Stock were converted pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.04(a) hereof.
 
(c) The Reorganization Merger Consideration issued (and paid) upon conversion of any shares of Ashland Common Stock in accordance with the terms of this Article II shall be deemed to have been issued (and paid) at the Reorganization Merger Effective Time in full satisfaction of all rights pertaining to such shares of Ashland Common Stock, and after the Reorganization Merger Effective Time there shall be no further registration of transfers on the stock transfer books of the business entity surviving the Reorganization Merger, New Ashland LLC, of shares of Ashland Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to the Reorganization Merger Effective Time.
 
SECTION 2.05. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, shares of Ashland Common Stock that are outstanding immediately prior to the Reorganization Merger Effective Time and that are held by any person who is entitled to demand and properly demands payment of the fair value of such shares ("") pursuant to, and who complies in all respects with, Subtitle 13 of the KBCA ("") shall not be converted into Reorganization Merger Consideration as provided in Section 2.04(a), but rather the holders of Dissenters' Shares shall be entitled to payment of the fair value of such Dissenters' Shares in accordance with Subtitle 13; , , that if any such holder shall fail to perfect or otherwise shall waive, withdraw or lose the right to receive payment of fair value under Subtitle 13, then the right of such holder to be paid the fair value of such holder's Dissenters' Shares shall cease and such Dissenters' Shares shall be deemed to have been converted as of the Reorganization Merger Effective Time into, and to have become exchangeable solely for, Reorganization Merger Consideration as provided in Section 2.04(a).
Dissenters' Rights.
Dissenters' Shares
Subtitle 13
provided
however
 
SECTION 2.06. Limited liability shall be retained with respect to the business entity surviving the Reorganization Merger, New Ashland LLC.
Limited Liability.
 
SECTION 2.07. No changes to the Articles of Organization of New Ashland LLC shall be effected by the Reorganization Merger.
Articles of Organization.
 
SECTION 2.08. The operating agreement of New Ashland LLC as in effect immediately prior to the Reorganization Merger Effective Time shall be the operating agreement of the business entity surviving the Reorganization Merger, New Ashland LLC, until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or by applicable Law.
Operating Agreement.
 
SECTION 2.09. The provisions contained in Sections 2.01 through 2.08 constitute the "plan of merger", as that term is used in KRS 271B.11-010 and KRS 271B.11-080 of the KBCA and KRS 275.355 of the KLLCA, for the Reorganization Merger (the ""). The adoption of this Agreement by the Board of Directors of Ashland (the "") constitutes the adoption, and the approval of this Agreement by the shareholders of Ashland will constitute the approval, of the Reorganization Plan of Merger by Ashland as required by KRS 271B.11-030. The approval of this Agreement by HoldCo, as the sole member of New Ashland LLC, constitutes the approval of the Reorganization Plan of Merger by New Ashland LLC as required by KRS 275.350.
Reorganization Plan of Merger.
Reorganization Plan of Merger
Ashland Board
 
 
 
SECTION 3.01. The names of the constituent business entities that are parties to the Conversion Merger are EXM LLC (referred to herein as "New Ashland LLC") and New EXM Inc. (referred to herein as "New Ashland Inc."). Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, at the Conversion Merger Effective Time, New Ashland LLC shall merge with and into New Ashland Inc., the separate existence of New Ashland LLC shall cease and New Ashland Inc. will be the surviving business entity of the Conversion Merger. Pursuant to the amendment referred to in Section 3.06(a), the name of the surviving business entity of the Conversion Merger shall be changed to Ashland Inc.
Parties to the Conversion Merger.
 
SECTION 3.02. Prior to the Closing, Ashland shall prepare, and on the Closing Date, New Ashland Inc. shall file with the Secretary of State of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
Conversion Merger Effective Time.
 
articles of merger or other appropriate documents (in any such case, the "") executed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the KLLCA and the KBCA and shall make all other filings or recordings required under the KLLCA and the KBCA. The Conversion Merger shall become effective at such time as the Conversion Articles of Merger are duly filed with such Secretary of State, or at such later time on the Closing Date as specified in the Conversion Articles of Merger (the time the Conversion Merger becomes effective being the "").
Conversion Articles of Merger
Conversion Merger Effective Time
 
SECTION 3.03. The Conversion Merger shall have the effects set forth in KRS 271B.11-060 of the KBCA and KRS 275.365 of the KLLCA. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject thereto, at the Conversion Merger Effective Time, all the properties, rights, privileges and powers of New Ashland LLC immediately prior to the Conversion Merger Effective Time shall rest in New Ashland Inc., and all debts, liabilities, obligations and duties of New Ashland LLC immediately prior to the Conversion Merger Effective Time shall become the debts, liabilities, obligations and duties of New Ashland Inc.
Effects.
 
SECTION 3.04. At the Conversion Merger Effective Time, by virtue of the Conversion Merger and without any action on the part of HoldCo:
Conversion of New Ashland Securities.
 
(i) all New Ashland LLC Interests issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Conversion Merger Effective Time shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be canceled and retired and shall cease to exist, and no consideration shall be delivered or deliverable in exchange therefor; and
 
(ii) each share of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Conversion Merger Effective Time shall remain outstanding without change.
 
SECTION 3.05. Limited liability shall be retained with respect to the business entity surviving the Conversion Merger, New Ashland Inc.
Limited Liability.
 
SECTION 3.06. (a) At the Conversion Merger Effective Time, the
Articles of Incorporation and By-laws.
 
articles of incorporation of New Ashland Inc. shall be amended as set out in Exhibit B, and, as so amended, such articles of incorporation shall be the articles of incorporation of the business entity surviving the Conversion Merger, New Ashland Inc., until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or by applicable Law.
 
(b) The by-laws of New Ashland Inc. as in effect immediately prior to the Conversion Merger Effective Time shall be the by-laws of the business entity surviving the Conversion Merger, New Ashland Inc., until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or by applicable Law.
 
SECTION 3.07. The directors of New Ashland Inc. immediately prior to the Conversion Merger Effective Time shall be the directors of the business entity surviving the Conversion Merger, New Ashland Inc., until the earlier of their resignation or removal or until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified, as the case may be.
Directors.
 
SECTION 3.08. The officers of New Ashland Inc. immediately prior to the Conversion Merger Effective Time shall be the officers of the business entity surviving the Conversion Merger, New Ashland Inc., until the earlier of their resignation or removal or until their respective successors are duly elected or appointed and qualified, as the case may be.
Officers.
 
SECTION 3.09. The provisions contained in Sections 3.01 through 3.08 constitute the "plan of merger", as that term is used in KRS 271B.11-010 and KRS 271B.11-080 of the KBCA and KRS 275.355 of the KLLCA, for the Conversion Merger (the ""). The adoption of this Agreement by the Board of Directors of New Ashland Inc. (the "") constitutes the adoption, and the approval of this Agreement by HoldCo, as the sole shareholder of New Ashland Inc., constitutes the approval, of the Conversion Plan of Merger by New Ashland Inc. as required by KRS 271B.11-030 of the KBCA. The approval of this Agreement by HoldCo, as the sole member of New Ashland LLC, constitutes the approval of the Conversion Plan of Merger by New Ashland LLC as required by KRS 275.350 of the KLLCA.
Conversion Plan of Merger.
Conversion Plan of Merger
New Ashland Board
 
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, at the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, HoldCo shall be merged with and into Merger Sub, the separate corporate existence of HoldCo shall cease and Merger Sub shall be the surviving business entity of the Acquisition Merger. Prior to the Closing, Ashland and Marathon shall jointly prepare, and on the Closing Date, Merger Sub shall file with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, a certificate of merger or other appropriate documents (in any such case, the "") executed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the DGCL and the DLLCA and shall make all other filings or recordings required under the DGCL and the DLLCA. The Acquisition Merger shall become effective at such time as the Acquisition Certificate of Merger is duly filed with such Secretary of State, or at such later time on the Closing Date as Ashland and Marathon shall agree and specify in the Acquisition Certificate of Merger (the time the Acquisition Merger becomes effective being the "").
Acquisition Merger; Acquisition Merger Effective Time.
Acquisition Certificate of Merger
Acquisition Merger Effective Time
 
SECTION 4.02. The Acquisition Merger shall have the effects set forth in Section 18-209(g) of the DLLCA. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject thereto, at the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, all the properties, rights, privileges and powers of HoldCo immediately prior to the Acquisition Merger Effective Time shall vest in Merger Sub, and all debts, liabilities, obligations and duties of HoldCo immediately prior to the Acquisition Merger Effective Time shall become the debts, liabilities, obligations and duties of Merger Sub.
Effects.
 
SECTION 4.03. (a) At the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, by virtue of the Acquisition Merger and without any action on the part of the holder of any shares of HoldCo Common Stock or any membership interests in Merger Sub:
Effect on Capital Stock.
 
(i) subject to Section 5.01(e), each issued and outstanding share of HoldCo Common Stock shall be converted into the right to receive (x) one duly issued, fully paid and nonassessable
 
share of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock and (y) a number of duly issued, fully paid and nonassessable shares of Marathon Common Stock equal to the Exchange Ratio (as defined in Section 4.03(b));
 
(ii) all of the limited liability company interests in Merger Sub issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Acquisition Merger Effective Time shall remain outstanding without change; and
 
(iii) each share of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock held by HoldCo immediately prior to the Acquisition Merger Effective Time shall automatically be canceled and retired and shall cease to exist, and no consideration shall be delivered or deliverable in exchange therefor.
 
(b) The shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock and Marathon Common Stock to be issued upon the conversion of shares of HoldCo Common Stock pursuant to Section 4.03(a)(i) and cash in lieu of fractional shares of Marathon Common Stock as contemplated by Section 5.01(e) are referred to collectively as "". As of the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, all such shares of HoldCo Common Stock shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be canceled and retired and shall cease to exist, and each holder of a certificate formerly representing the right to receive any such shares of HoldCo Common Stock pursuant to Section 2.04(b) shall cease to have any rights with respect thereto, except the right to receive, upon surrender of such certificate in accordance with Section 5.01, the Acquisition Merger Consideration, without interest. "" means $315,000,000 divided by the product of (x) the Fair Market Value and (y) the total number of shares of Ashland Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Reorganization Merger Effective Time. "" means an amount equal to the average of the closing sale prices per share for the Marathon Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange (the ""), as reported in , Northeastern edition, for each of the twenty consecutive trading days ending with the third complete trading day prior to the Closing Date (not counting the Closing Date) (the ""). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Board of Directors of Marathon (the "
Acquisition Merger Consideration
Exchange Ratio
Fair Market Value
NYSE
The Wall Street Journal
Averaging Period
Marathon
 
") declares a dividend on the outstanding shares of Marathon Common Stock having a record date before the Closing Date but an ex-dividend date (based on "regular way" trading on the NYSE of shares of Marathon Common Stock) (the "") that occurs after the first trading day of the Averaging Period, then for purposes of computing the Fair Market Value, the closing price on any trading day before the Ex-Date will be adjusted by subtracting therefrom the amount of such dividend. For purposes of the immediately preceding sentence, the amount of any noncash dividend will be the fair market value thereof on the payment date for such dividend as determined in good faith by mutual agreement of Ashland and Marathon.
Board
Ex-Date
 
(c) If, prior to the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, the outstanding shares of Marathon Common Stock shall have been reclassified or changed into, or exchanged for, securities other than Marathon Common Stock (including as a result of a merger), then, notwithstanding Section 4.03(a)(i) but subject to Section 5.01(e), each issued and outstanding share of HoldCo Common Stock shall be converted into the right to receive such other securities with the exchange ratio determined in accordance with Section 4.03(b), subject to such appropriate adjustments as shall be determined in good faith by mutual agreement of Ashland and Marathon.
 
(d) If, after the first trading day of the Averaging Period and prior to the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, the outstanding shares of Marathon Common Stock shall have been increased, decreased, changed into or exchanged for a different number of shares of Marathon Common Stock in any case as a result of a reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, combination or exchange of shares or other similar change in capitalization, then an appropriate and proportionate adjustment shall be made to the Exchange Ratio.
 
SECTION 4.04. The limited liability company agreement of Merger Sub as in effect immediately prior to the Acquisition Merger Effective Time shall be the limited liability company agreement of the business entity surviving the Acquisition Merger, Merger Sub, until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or by applicable Law.
Limited Liability Company Agreement.
 
SECTION 4.05. The parties intend that (a) the Acquisition Merger will qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, (b) HoldCo and Marathon will each be a "party" to such reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code and (c) this Agreement is intended to constitute a "plan of reorganization" for U.S. Federal income Tax purposes.
Tax Treatment.
 
 
 
SECTION 5.01. (a) (i) Promptly following the Acquisition Merger, New Ashland Inc. shall issue and deposit with an exchange agent designated by Ashland and reasonably acceptable to Marathon (the ""), for the benefit of the holders of shares of HoldCo Common Stock, for exchange in accordance with this Article V, through the Exchange Agent, certificates representing the shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock issuable pursuant to Section 4.03 in exchange for outstanding shares of HoldCo Common Stock. New Ashland Inc. shall provide to the Exchange Agent following the Acquisition Merger Effective Time all the cash necessary to pay any dividends or other distributions with respect to New Ashland Inc. Common Stock in accordance with Section 5.01(c)(i).
Exchange of Certificates.
Exchange Agent.
Exchange Agent
 
(ii) Promptly following the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, Marathon shall issue and deposit with the Exchange Agent, for the benefit of the holders of shares of HoldCo Common Stock, for exchange in accordance with this Article V, through the Exchange Agent, certificates representing a number of shares of Marathon Common Stock equal to the product of (x) the total number of shares of Ashland Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Reorganization Merger Effective Time and (y) the Exchange Ratio, rounded up to the nearest whole share. Marathon shall provide to the Exchange Agent (or, following the termination of the Exchange Fund pursuant to Section 5.01(f), to New Ashland Inc. so long as it is the record holder
 
 
(iii) The Exchange Agent shall, pursuant to irrevocable instructions delivered by New Ashland Inc. and Marathon, deliver the New Ashland Inc. Common Stock and the Marathon Common Stock contemplated to be issued pursuant to Section 4.03 and this Article V out of the Exchange Fund. The Exchange Fund shall not be used for any other purpose.
 
(b) As promptly as reasonably practicable after the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, the Exchange Agent shall mail to each holder of record of a certificate or certificates (each, a "") that immediately prior to the Reorganization Merger Effective Time represented outstanding shares of Ashland Common Stock (other than holders of Dissenters' Shares), (i) a letter of transmittal (which shall specify that delivery shall be effected, and risk of loss and title to the Certificate or Certificates shall pass, only upon delivery of the Certificate or Certificates to the Exchange Agent and shall be in such form and have such other provisions as New Ashland Inc. and Marathon may reasonably specify) and (ii) instructions for use in effecting the surrender of the Certificate or Certificates in exchange for Acquisition Merger Consideration. Upon surrender of a Certificate or Certificates for cancelation to the Exchange Agent or, following termination of the Exchange Fund pursuant to Section 5.01(f), New Ashland Inc., together with such letter of transmittal, duly executed and
Exchange Procedures.
Certificate
 
completed in accordance with the instructions thereto, and such other documents as may reasonably be required by the Exchange Agent or New Ashland Inc., as applicable, the holder of such Certificate or Certificates shall be entitled to receive in exchange therefor (i) a certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock that such holder has the right to receive pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.03 and this Article V, (ii) a certificate or certificates representing that number of whole shares of Marathon Common Stock that such holder has the right to receive pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.03 and this Article V, (iii) cash in lieu of fractional shares of Marathon Common Stock that such holder has the right to receive pursuant to Section 5.01(e) and (iv) any dividends or other distributions such holder has the right to receive pursuant to Section 5.01(c), and the Certificate or Certificates so surrendered shall forthwith be canceled. In the event of a transfer of ownership of Ashland Common Stock or HoldCo Common Stock that is not registered in the transfer records of Ashland or HoldCo, (i) a certificate or certificates representing the appropriate number of shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock and (ii) a certificate or certificates representing the appropriate number of shares of Marathon Common Stock, together with a check for cash to be paid in lieu of fractional shares, may be issued and paid to a person other than the person in whose name the Certificate or Certificates so surrendered is registered, if such Certificate or Certificates shall be properly endorsed or otherwise be in proper form for transfer and the person requesting such issuance and payment shall pay any transfer or other Taxes required by reason of the issuance of shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock and Marathon Common Stock to a person other than the registered holder of such Certificate or Certificates or establish to the satisfaction of New Ashland Inc. that such Tax has been paid or is not applicable. Until surrendered as contemplated by this Section 5.01, each Certificate shall be deemed at any time after the Acquisition Merger Effective Time to represent only the right to receive upon such surrender Acquisition Merger Consideration as contemplated by this Section 5.01. No interest shall be paid or accrue on any cash in lieu of fractional shares or accrued and unpaid dividends or distributions, if any, payable upon surrender of any Certificate.
 
(c) (i) No dividends or other distributions with respect to shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock with a record date on or after the Closing Date shall be paid to the holder of any Certificate with respect to the shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock issuable upon surrender of such Certificate until the surrender of such Certificate in accordance with this Article V. Subject to applicable Law, following surrender of any such Certificate, there shall be paid to the holder of the certificate representing shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock issued in exchange therefor, without interest, (A) at the time of such surrender, the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date after the Closing Date theretofore paid with respect to such shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock, and (B) at the appropriate payment date, the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date on or after the Closing Date but prior to such surrender and a payment date subsequent to such surrender payable with respect to such shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock.
Distributions with Respect to Unexchanged Shares.
 
(ii) No dividends or other distributions with respect to shares of Marathon Common Stock with a record date on or after the Closing Date shall be paid to the holder of any Certificate with respect to the shares of Marathon Common Stock issuable upon surrender thereof, and no cash payment in lieu of fractional shares shall be paid to any such holder pursuant to Section 5.01(e), until the surrender of such Certificate in accordance with this Article V. Subject to applicable Law, following surrender of any such Certificate, there shall be paid to the holder of the certificate representing whole shares of Marathon Common Stock issued in exchange therefor, without interest, (A) at the time of such surrender, the amount of any cash payable in lieu of a fractional share of Marathon Common Stock to which such holder is entitled pursuant to Section 5.01(e) and the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date on or after the Closing Date theretofore paid with respect to such whole shares of Marathon Common Stock and (B) at the appropriate payment date, the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date on or after the Closing Date but prior to such surrender and a
 
payment date subsequent to such surrender payable with respect to such whole shares of Marathon Common Stock.
 
(d) The Acquisition Merger Consideration issued (and paid) upon conversion of any shares of HoldCo Common Stock in accordance with the terms of this Article V shall be deemed to have been issued (and paid) in full satisfaction of all rights pertaining to such shares of HoldCo Common Stock, and after the Acquisition Merger Effective Time there shall be no further registration of transfers on the stock transfer books of the business entity surviving the Acquisition Merger, Merger Sub, of shares of HoldCo Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to the Acquisition Merger Effective Time. If, after the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, any Certificates are presented to New Ashland Inc. or the Exchange Agent for any reason, they shall be canceled and exchanged as provided in this Article V except as otherwise provided by applicable Law. Unless Marathon otherwise consents, the Acquisition Merger Consideration shall not be issued to any person who is an "affiliate" of Ashland for purposes of Rule 145 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), on the date of the Ashland Shareholders Meeting, as determined from representations contained in the letters of transmittal to be delivered by former holders of shares of Ashland Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.01(b) (a ""), until Marathon has received a written agreement from such Rule 145 Affiliate substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C; , , that Marathon shall be solely responsible for any Losses (as defined in Section 13.01(a)) of any of the Ashland Parties and their respective affiliates and Representatives (in each case other than such Rule 145 Affiliate) to the extent resulting from, arising out of, or relating to, directly or indirectly, any refusal by Marathon to consent to the issuance of Acquisition Merger Consideration to any such Rule 145 Affiliate pursuant to this sentence.
No Further Ownership Rights in HoldCo Common Stock.
Securities Act
Rule 145 Affiliate
provided
however
 
(e) (i) No certificates or scrip representing fractional shares of Marathon Common Stock shall be issued upon the conversion of HoldCo Common Stock pursuant to Section 4.03, and such fractional share interests shall not entitle the owner thereof to vote or to any rights of a holder of Marathon Common Stock. For
No Fractional Shares.
 
purposes of this Section 5.01(e), all fractional shares to which a single record holder would be entitled shall be aggregated and calculations shall be rounded to three decimal places. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, each holder of Certificates who otherwise would be entitled to receive a fraction of a share of Marathon Common Stock (determined after taking into account all Certificates delivered by such holder) shall receive, in lieu thereof, cash (without interest) in an amount equal to the product of such fractional part of a share of Marathon Common Stock multiplied by the Fair Market Value.
 
(ii) As promptly as practicable following the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, the Exchange Agent shall determine the excess of (A) the number of shares of Marathon Common Stock delivered to the Exchange Agent by Marathon pursuant to Section 5.01(a) over (B) the aggregate number of whole shares of Marathon Common Stock to be issued to holders of HoldCo Common Stock pursuant to Section 5.01(b) (such excess being herein called the ""). As promptly as practicable after such determination, Marathon shall deposit an amount into the Exchange Fund equal to the product of the number of Excess Shares multiplied by the Fair Market Value, and the Exchange Agent shall return certificates representing such Excess Shares to Marathon
Excess Shares
.
 
(f) Any portion of the Exchange Fund that remains undistributed to the holders of Certificates for six months after the Acquisition Merger Effective Time shall be delivered to or in accordance with the instructions of New Ashland Inc., upon demand, and any holder of a Certificate who has not theretofore complied with this Article V shall thereafter look only to New Ashland Inc. for payment of its claim for Acquisition Merger Consideration and any dividends or distributions with respect to New Ashland Inc. Common Stock or Marathon Common Stock, as applicable, as contemplated by Section 5.01(c).
Termination of Exchange Fund.
 
(g) If any Certificate shall have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming such Certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed and, if required by New Ashland Inc., the execution of an indemnity
Lost Certificates.
 
reasonably satisfactory to New Ashland Inc. (and, if required by New Ashland Inc., the posting by such person of a bond in such reasonable amount as New Ashland Inc. may direct, as indemnity) against any claim that may be made against it with respect to such Certificate, the Exchange Agent will deliver in exchange for such lost, stolen or destroyed Certificate the applicable Acquisition Merger Consideration with respect to the shares of HoldCo Common Stock formerly represented thereby, and any dividends or other distributions such holder has the right to receive in respect thereof, pursuant to this Agreement.
 
(h) Each of New Ashland Inc. and Marathon shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from the consideration otherwise payable pursuant to this Agreement to any holder of Certificates and any holder of Dissenters' Shares such amounts as may be required to be deducted and withheld by New Ashland Inc. or Marathon, as applicable, with respect to the making of such payment under the Code or under any provision of state, local or foreign Tax Law. To the extent that amounts are so withheld and paid over to the appropriate Tax Authority (as defined in Section 14.02), New Ashland Inc. or Marathon, as applicable, will be treated as though it withheld an appropriate amount of the type of consideration otherwise payable pursuant to this Agreement to any holder of Certificates or Dissenters' Shares, sold such consideration for an amount of cash equal to the fair market value of such consideration at the time of such deemed sale and paid such cash proceeds to the appropriate Tax Authority. Such withheld amounts shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the holder of the shares represented by the Certificates or Dissenters' Shares, as the case may be, in respect of which such deduction and withholding was made.
Withholding Rights.
 
(i) None of the Ashland Parties, the Marathon Parties or the Exchange Agent shall be liable to any person in respect of any shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock (or dividends or distributions with respect thereto), Marathon Common Stock (or dividends or distributions with respect thereto) or cash from the Exchange Fund delivered to a public official pursuant to any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar Law. If any Certificate has not been surrendered prior to five years after the Acquisition Merger Effective Time (or immediately prior to such earlier date on which Acquisition
No Liability.
 
Merger Consideration or any dividends or distributions with respect to New Ashland Inc. Common Stock or Marathon Common Stock as contemplated by Section 5.01(c) in respect of such Certificate would otherwise escheat to or become the property of any Governmental Entity (as defined in Section 6.05(b))), any such shares, cash, dividends or distributions in respect of such Certificate shall, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, become the property of New Ashland Inc., free and clear of all claims or interest of any person previously entitled thereto.
 
(j) The Exchange Agent shall invest any cash included in the Exchange Fund, as directed by New Ashland Inc., on a daily basis. Any interest and other income resulting from such investments shall be paid to New Ashland Inc.
Investment of Exchange Fund.
 
 
 
Ashland and New Ashland Inc., jointly and severally, represent and warrant to the Marathon Parties that, as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as if made on the Closing Date (except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, in which case as of such earlier date), except as set forth in the disclosure letter, dated as of the date of this Agreement, from Ashland to Marathon (the ""); , , that no item contained in any section of the Ashland Disclosure Letter shall be deemed to qualify, or disclose any exception to, any representation or warranty made in the last sentence of Section 6.03(e) or in Sections 6.04 or 6.11:
Ashland Disclosure Letter
provided
however
 
SECTION 6.01. Ashland is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has full corporate power and authority to own, lease and otherwise hold its properties and to conduct its businesses as presently conducted. Each Significant Ashland Subsidiary (as defined in this Section 6.01) is duly organized, validly existing and, to the extent such concept or a similar concept exists in the relevant jurisdiction,
Organization, Standing and Power.
 
in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction in which it is organized and has full corporate or other entity power and authority to own, lease or otherwise hold its properties and to conduct its businesses as presently conducted. Each of Ashland and each Significant Ashland Subsidiary is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing (where applicable) in each jurisdiction where the nature of its business or its ownership or leasing of its properties makes such qualification necessary, except in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have an Ashland Material Adverse Effect (as defined in Section 6.05(a)). Ashland has provided to Marathon true and complete copies of the articles of incorporation of Ashland, as amended to the date of this Agreement (as so amended, the ""), and the by-laws of Ashland, as amended to the date of this Agreement (as so amended, the ""), and the comparable charter and organizational documents of each Significant Ashland Subsidiary, in each case as amended to the date of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a "" means New Ashland LLC, New Ashland Inc., any subsidiary of Ashland that constitutes a significant subsidiary within the meaning of Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X of the SEC and, prior to the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, HoldCo.
Ashland Charter
Ashland By-laws
Significant Ashland Subsidiary
 
SECTION 6.02. (a) All the outstanding shares of capital stock of, or other equity interests in, each Significant Ashland Subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable and are as of the date of this Agreement owned by Ashland, by another subsidiary of Ashland (an "") or by Ashland and another Ashland Subsidiary, free and clear of all pledges, liens, charges, mortgages, security interests, encumbrances and adverse claims of any kind or nature whatsoever (collectively, "").
Ashland Subsidiaries; Equity Interests.
Ashland Subsidiary
Liens
 
(b) Each of HoldCo, New Ashland LLC and New Ashland Inc., since the date of its formation, has not carried on any business or conducted any operations other than the execution of this Agreement, the other Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, the performance of its obligations hereunder and thereunder and matters ancillary thereto. Except for any indebtedness for borrowed money and other liabilities
 
assumed by HoldCo pursuant to the Transaction Agreements or the Ancillary Agreements, and except as otherwise expressly contemplated by the Transaction Agreements or the Ancillary Agreements, immediately prior to the Acquisition Merger, HoldCo will not have any indebtedness for borrowed money or any other liabilities (whether accrued, absolute, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, disputed, undisputed, legal or equitable).
 
SECTION 6.03. (a) The authorized capital stock of Ashland consists of 300,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 30,000,000 shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock ("" and, together with the Ashland Common Stock, the ""). At the close of business on February 29, 2004, (i) 69,599,791 shares of Ashland Common Stock were issued and outstanding, (ii) 9,926,276 shares of Ashland Common Stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to Ashland Stock Plans (as defined in Section 14.02) and (iii) 500,000 shares of Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock ("") were reserved for issuance in connection with the rights (the "") issued pursuant to the Rights Agreement dated as of May 16, 1996 (as amended from time to time, the ""), between Ashland and National City Bank, as Rights Agent. Except as set forth above, at the close of business on February 29, 2004, no shares of capital stock or other voting securities of Ashland were issued, reserved for issuance or outstanding. There are no outstanding Ashland SARs (as defined in Section 14.02) that were not granted in tandem with a related Ashland Employee Stock Option. No shares of Ashland Capital Stock are held by Ashland as treasury stock. All outstanding shares of Ashland Capital Stock are, and all such shares that may be issued prior to the Closing will be when issued, duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and not subject to or issued in violation of any purchase option, call option, right of first refusal, preemptive right, subscription right or any similar right under any provision of the KBCA, the Ashland Charter, the Ashland By-laws or any Contract (as defined in Section 6.05(a)) to which Ashland is a party or otherwise bound. As of the date of this Agreement, there are not any bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness of Ashland having the right to vote (or convertible into, or exchangeable for, securities having the right to vote) on any matters on which holders of Ashland Common Stock may vote ("
Capital Structure.
Ashland Preferred Stock
Ashland Capital Stock
Ashland Series A Preferred Stock
Ashland Rights
Ashland Rights Agreement
Voting
 
"). None of HoldCo, New Ashland Inc. or New Ashland LLC owns or holds any shares of Ashland Capital Stock or any Voting Ashland Debt. Except as set forth above, as of the date of this Agreement, there are not any options, warrants, rights, convertible or exchangeable securities, "phantom" stock rights, stock appreciation rights, stock-based performance units, commitments, Contracts, arrangements or undertakings of any kind to which Ashland or any Ashland Subsidiary is a party or by which any of them is bound (i) obligating Ashland or any Ashland Subsidiary to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, additional shares of capital stock or other equity interests in, or any security convertible or exercisable for or exchangeable into any capital stock of or other equity interest in, Ashland or any Ashland Subsidiary or any Voting Ashland Debt or (ii) obligating Ashland or any Ashland Subsidiary to issue, grant, extend or enter into any such option, warrant, call, right, security, commitment, Contract, arrangement or undertaking. As of the date of this Agreement, there are not any outstanding contractual obligations or commitments of Ashland or any Ashland Subsidiary to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of capital stock of Ashland or any Ashland Subsidiary.
Ashland Debt
 
(b) The authorized capital stock of HoldCo consists of 300,000,000 shares of HoldCo Common Stock, 100 shares of which have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by Ashland free and clear of any Lien. No shares of capital stock of HoldCo are held by HoldCo as treasury stock.
 
(c) As of the date of this Agreement, the authorized capital stock of New Ashland Inc. consists of 1,000 shares of Common Stock, of which 100 shares of Common Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by HoldCo free and clear of any Lien. Immediately prior to the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, the authorized capital stock of New Ashland Inc. will consist of 300,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 100 shares of Common Stock will have been duly authorized and validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and owned by HoldCo free and clear of any Lien, other than any Lien (i) pursuant to the HoldCo Borrowing arrangements or (ii) in favor of any Marathon Party or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates.
 
(d) All of the membership interests in New Ashland LLC are owned by HoldCo free and clear of any Lien, other than any Lien (i) pursuant to the HoldCo Borrowing arrangements or (ii) in favor of any Marathon Party or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates.
 
(e) Immediately prior to the MAP Partial Redemption, all of Ashland's Membership Interest will be owned by Ashland free and clear of any Lien. Immediately prior to the Acquisition Merger, all of Ashland's Membership Interest that has not been redeemed pursuant to the MAP Partial Redemption will be owned by HoldCo free and clear of any Lien, other than any Lien (i) pursuant to the HoldCo Borrowing arrangements or (ii) in favor of any Marathon Party or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates. Upon consummation of the Transactions, all of Ashland's Membership Interest shall be vested in one or more of the Marathon Parties and shall thereafter be the property of one or more of the Marathon Parties (assuming such Marathon Parties have the requisite power and authority to be the lawful owners of Ashland's Membership Interest), free and clear of any Lien, other than any Lien (i) pursuant to the HoldCo Borrowing arrangements, (ii) in favor of any Marathon Party or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates or (iii) arising from actions or inactions of any of the Marathon Parties or their affiliates (and not of any of the Ashland Parties or their affiliates).
 
SECTION 6.04. (a) Each Ashland Party has all requisite corporate or limited liability company power and authority to execute and deliver the Transaction Agreements, and the other agreements and instruments to be executed and delivered in connection with the Transaction Agreements (the ""), to which it is, or is specified to be, a party and to consummate the Transactions. The execution and delivery by each Ashland Party of each Transaction Agreement and Ancillary Agreement to which it is, or is specified to be, a party and the consummation by each Ashland Party of the Transactions to be consummated by it under the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or limited liability company action on the part of each Ashland Party subject to receipt of the
Authority; Execution and Delivery; Enforceability.
Ancillary Agreements
 
Ashland Shareholder Approval (as defined in Section 6.04(b)). Each Ashland Party has duly executed and delivered each Transaction Agreement to which it is a party, and each Transaction Agreement to which it is a party constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms. As of the Closing Date, each Ashland Party will have duly executed and delivered each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party, and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party will constitute its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms.
 
(b) The Ashland Board, at a meeting duly called and held, duly and unanimously adopted resolutions: (i) adopting and approving the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements and the Transactions; (ii) determining that the terms of the Transactions are fair to and in the best interests of Ashland and its shareholders; and (iii) recommending that Ashland's shareholders approve the Transaction Agreements and the Transactions (including the plan of merger for the Reorganization Merger and the proposed transfer of Ashland's interests in MAP, LOOP LLC and LOCAP LLC, as well as the Maleic Business and the VIOC Centers, provided for in the Transaction Agreements). The only vote of holders of any class or series of Ashland Capital Stock necessary to approve and adopt the Transaction Agreements and the Transactions is the approval of the Transaction Agreements and the Transactions (including the plan of merger for the Reorganization Merger and the proposed transfer of Ashland's interests in MAP, LOOP LLC and LOCAP LLC, as well as the Maleic Business and the VIOC Centers, provided for in the Transaction Agreements) by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Ashland Common Stock (the "").
Ashland Shareholder Approval
 
(c) The Board of Directors of HoldCo has duly and unanimously adopted resolutions: (i) approving and declaring advisable the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements to which HoldCo is a party, and approving the Transactions; (ii) determining that the terms of the Transactions to which HoldCo is a party are fair to and in the best interests of HoldCo and Ashland, its sole shareholder; and (iii) recommending that Ashland, HoldCo's sole shareholder, adopt the Transaction Agreements to which HoldCo is a party. Ashland, as the sole shareholder of
 
HoldCo, has duly approved and adopted the Transaction Agreements to which HoldCo is a party.
 
(d) The New Ashland Board has duly and unanimously adopted resolutions: (i) adopting and approving the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements to which New Ashland Inc. is a party, and adopting and approving the Transactions; (ii) determining that the terms of the Transactions to which New Ashland Inc. is a party are fair to and in the best interests of New Ashland Inc. and HoldCo, its sole shareholder; and (iii) recommending that HoldCo, New Ashland Inc.'s sole shareholder, approve the Transaction Agreements to which New Ashland Inc. is a party. HoldCo, as the sole shareholder of New Ashland Inc., has duly approved the Transaction Agreements to which New Ashland Inc. is a party.
 
(e) HoldCo, as the sole member of New Ashland LLC, has approved the Transaction Agreements to which New Ashland LLC is a party.
 
SECTION 6.05. (a) The execution and delivery by each Ashland Party of each Transaction Agreement to which it is a party do not, the execution and delivery of each Ancillary Agreement to which it is specified to be a party will not, and the consummation of the Transactions to be consummated by it under the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements and compliance with the terms of the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements will not, conflict with, or result in any breach or violation of or default (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) under, or give rise to a right of termination, cancelation or acceleration of any obligation or to loss of a material benefit under, or result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the properties or assets of Ashland or any Ashland Subsidiary under, any provision of (i) the Ashland Charter, the Ashland By-laws or the comparable charter or organizational documents of any Ashland Subsidiary, (ii) any contract, lease, license, indenture, note, bond, agreement, permit, concession, franchise or other instrument (a "") to which Ashland or any Ashland Subsidiary is a party or by which any of their respective properties or assets is bound or (iii) subject to the filings and other matters referred to in Section 6.05(b), any judgment, order or decree ("") or statute, law, ordinance, rule or regulation ("") applicable to Ashland
No Conflicts; Consents.
Contract
Judgment
Law
 
or any Ashland Subsidiary or their respective properties or assets, other than, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above, any such items that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the ability of any Ashland Party to perform its obligations under the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements or on the ability of any Ashland Party to consummate the Transactions (an "").
Ashland Material Adverse Effect
 
(b) No consent, approval, license, permit, order or authorization ("") of, or registration, declaration or filing with, or permit from, any Federal, state, local or foreign government or any court of competent jurisdiction, administrative agency or commission or other governmental authority or instrumentality, domestic or foreign (each, a ""), is required to be obtained or made by or with respect to Ashland or any Ashland Subsidiary in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of any Transaction Agreement or Ancillary Agreement or the consummation of the Transactions, other than (i) compliance with and filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the ""), (ii) the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") of (A) a joint registration statement on Form S-4 (the "") in connection with the issuance by HoldCo of HoldCo Common Stock in connection with the Reorganization Merger (the "") and the issuance by New Ashland Inc. of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock in the Acquisition Merger (the ""), (B) a registration statement on Form S-4 (the "" and, together with the Ashland Form S-4, the "") in connection with the issuance by Marathon of Marathon Common Stock in connection with the Acquisition Merger (the ""), (C) a proxy or information statement relating to the approval of the Transaction Agreements and the Transactions by Ashland's shareholders (the "") and (D) such reports under Sections 13 and 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), as may be required in connection with the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements or the Transactions, (iii) (A) the filing of the Reorganization Articles of Merger with the Secretary of State of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, (B) the filing of the Conversion Articles of Merger with the Secretary of State of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, (C) the
Consent
Governmental Entity
HSR Act
SEC
Ashland Form S-4
HoldCo Share Issuance
New Ashland Inc. Share Issuance
Marathon Form S-4
Forms S-4
Marathon Share Issuance
Proxy Statement
Exchange Act
 
filing of the Acquisition Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and (D) appropriate documents with the relevant authorities of the other jurisdictions in which Ashland is qualified to do business, (iv) such filings as may be required in connection with Taxes and (v) such other Consents, registrations, declarations, filings and permits (A) required solely by reason of the participation of any Marathon Party (as opposed to any third party) in the Transactions or (B) the failure of which to obtain or make that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have an Ashland Material Adverse Effect.
 
(c) Ashland and the Ashland Board have taken all action necessary to (i) render the Ashland Rights inapplicable to the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements and the Transactions; and (ii) ensure that (A) none of the Marathon Parties, nor any of their affiliates or associates, is or will become an "Acquiring Person" (as defined in the Ashland Rights Agreement) by reason of the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements or the Transactions and (B) a "Distribution Date" (as defined in the Ashland Rights Agreement) shall not occur by reason of the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements or the Transactions.
 
SECTION 6.06. (a) Ashland has filed all reports, schedules, forms, statements and other documents (including exhibits and amendments thereto) required to be filed by Ashland with the SEC since October 1, 2003, pursuant to Sections 13(a), 14(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act (the "").
SEC Documents; Undisclosed Liabilities.
Ashland SEC Documents
 
(b) As of its respective date, each Ashland SEC Document complied in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder applicable to such Ashland SEC Document, and did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
 
or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Except to the extent that information contained in any Ashland SEC Document has been revised or superseded by a later filed Ashland SEC Document, none of the Ashland SEC Documents contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The consolidated financial statements of Ashland included in the Ashland SEC Documents comply as to form in all material respects with applicable accounting requirements and the published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("") (except, in the case of unaudited statements, as permitted by Form 10-Q of the SEC) applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto) and on that basis fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial position of Ashland and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the periods shown (subject, in the case of unaudited interim financial statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments).
GAAP
 
(c) Except as disclosed in the Ashland SEC Documents, as of the date of this Agreement neither Ashland nor any Ashland Subsidiary has any liabilities or obligations of any nature (whether accrued, absolute, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, disputed, undisputed, legal or equitable) required by GAAP to be set forth on a consolidated balance sheet of Ashland and its consolidated subsidiaries or disclosed in the notes thereto and that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have an Ashland Material Adverse Effect.
 
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 6.06, the Ashland Parties do not make any representation or warranty as to the financial statements, financial position, results of operations or cash flows of MAP, as to any other statement, omission or information relating to MAP included or incorporated by reference in the Ashland SEC Documents, or as to the business, assets, liabilities, condition (financial or otherwise), operations or prospects of MAP.
 
SECTION 6.07. From the date of the most recent financial statements included in the Ashland SEC Documents filed and publicly available prior to the date of this Agreement, to the date of this Agreement, there has not been:
Absence of Certain Changes or Events.
 
(i) any event, change, effect or development that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have an Ashland Material Adverse Effect;
 
(ii) any declaration, setting aside or payment of any dividends on, or any other distributions in respect of, any Ashland Capital Stock, other than regular quarterly cash dividends with respect to the Ashland Common Stock, not in excess of 27.5 cents per share, with usual declaration, record and payment dates and in accordance with Ashland's past dividend policy; or
 
(iii) any repurchase, redemption or other acquisition for value by Ashland of any Ashland Capital Stock.
 
SECTION 6.08. None of the information supplied or to be supplied by or on behalf of any Ashland Party for inclusion or incorporation by reference in (i) the Forms S-4 will, at the time the Forms S-4 are filed with the SEC, at any time the Forms S-4 are amended or supplemented or at the time the same become effective under the Securities Act, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or (ii) the Proxy Statement will, at the date it is first mailed to Ashland's shareholders or at the time of the Ashland Shareholders Meeting (as defined in Section 9.01(e), contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. The Ashland Form S-4 will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, and the Proxy Statement will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, in each case except that no representation is made by any Ashland Party with respect to
Information Supplied.
 
statements made or incorporated by reference therein based on information supplied by or on behalf of any Marathon Party for inclusion or incorporation by reference therein.
 
SECTION 6.09. . No broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other person, other than Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin (""), the fees and expenses of which will be paid by Ashland (except as otherwise contemplated by Section 9.03(d)(i)), and Morgan Joseph & Co., Inc., the fees and expenses of which will be paid in accordance with Section 9.04(b), is entitled to any broker's, finder's, financial advisor's or other similar fee or commission in connection with the Transactions based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of any Ashland Party.
Brokers
HLHZ
 
SECTION 6.10. . Ashland has received the opinion of Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, dated the date of this Agreement, to the effect that, as of such date, the consideration to be received in the Acquisition Merger by the holders of Ashland Common Stock (other than Marathon and its affiliates) is fair to such holders from a financial point of view.
Opinion of Financial Advisor
 
SECTION 6.11. . (a) Ashland has received two solvency opinions of American Appraisal Associates, Inc. (""), copies of which are included in Section 7.11 of the Marathon Disclosure Letter (the ""), and the solvency opinion of HLHZ, a copy of which is included in Section 6.11 of the Ashland Disclosure Letter (the "" and, together with the Initial AAA Opinions, the "").
Solvency Matters
AAA
Initial AAA Opinions
Initial HLHZ Opinion
Initial Opinions
 
(b) As of the date of this Agreement, Ashland does not, and as of the Closing Date New Ashland Inc. will not, have any intention to declare a dividend or distribution or to complete a share repurchase using, directly or indirectly, proceeds received from the MAP Partial Redemption or the Capital Contribution; , , that it is understood that New Ashland Inc. may pay cash dividends after the Closing consistent with historical cash dividends paid by Ashland prior to the Closing.
provided
however
 
(c) As of the date of this Agreement, Ashland intends, and as of the Closing Date New Ashland Inc. will intend, to use the cash proceeds of the Capital Contribution pursuant to Section 1.03(b) only (i) for the
 
uses described in the definition of Ashland Debt Obligation Amount or (ii) to pay other obligations owed to any of their respective creditors, and to use the cash proceeds of the MAP Partial Redemption pursuant to Section 1.01 only for the purposes described in clauses (i) and (ii) of this Section 6.11(c) and for general corporate purposes (including, potentially, business acquisitions) not inconsistent with Section 6.11(b).
 
(d) As of the Closing Date, Ashland, before consummation of the Transactions, and New Ashland Inc., after giving effect to the Transactions, will not be insolvent, as insolvency is defined under any of the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act, as approved by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws in 1984, as amended (the ""), the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, as approved by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws in 1918, as amended (the ""), and the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, Title 11 of the U.S.C., as amended (the ""). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, as of the Closing Date, with respect to each of Ashland, before consummation of the Transactions, and New Ashland Inc., after giving effect to the Transactions: (i) the sum of such entity's debts will not be greater than all of such entity's assets at a fair valuation (as such terms are defined in the UFTA), and the sum of such entity's debts will not be greater than all of such entity's property, at a fair valuation (as such terms are defined in the Bankruptcy Code); (ii) the present fair saleable value of such entity's assets will not be less than the amount that will be required to pay such entity's probable liability on its existing debts as they become absolute and matured (as such terms are defined in the UFCA); (iii) such entity will not intend to incur, or believe or reasonably should believe that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay as they become due (as such terms are defined in the UFTA), such entity will not intend or believe that it will incur debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature (as such terms are defined in the UFCA), and such entity will not intend to incur, or believe that it would incur, debts that would be beyond its ability to pay as such debts mature (as such terms are defined in the Bankruptcy Code); and (iv) such entity will not be engaged and will not be about to engage in a business or transaction for which the remaining assets of such entity are unreasonably small in relation to such business or transaction (as such terms are defined in
UFTA
UFCA
Bankruptcy Code
 
the UFTA), such entity will not be engaged and will not be about to engage in a business or transaction for which the property remaining in such entity's hands is an unreasonably small capital (as such terms are defined in the UFCA), and such entity will not be engaged in business or a transaction, and will not be about to engage in business or a transaction, for which any property remaining with such entity is an unreasonably small capital (as such terms are defined in the Bankruptcy Code).
 
(e) To Ashland's knowledge, the information provided orally or in writing to AAA by or on behalf of any Ashland Party relating to the Ashland Parties in connection with the delivery by AAA to Ashland and Marathon of the Initial AAA Opinions and the Bring-Down AAA Opinions (as defined in Section 10.01(g)) (including the information contained in the data rooms identified in the Initial AAA Opinions and any similar data rooms made available to AAA after the date of this Agreement), together with the information in the Ashland SEC Documents (as such information has been revised or superseded by a later filed Ashland SEC Document or other information that has been provided to AAA), taken as a whole, does not and will not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in any case in which AAA would be led to deliver the Bring-Down AAA Opinions when AAA would not do so in the absence of such untrue statement or omission. Notwithstanding the foregoing, while Ashland and New Ashland Inc. represent and warrant that the projections, forecasts and other forward-looking materials relating to the Ashland Parties and so provided to AAA have been prepared and furnished to AAA in good faith and were based on facts and assumptions believed by Ashland and New Ashland Inc. to be reasonable, the parties acknowledge that: (i) there may be differences between actual results and the results indicated in such projections, forecasts and other forward-looking materials; (ii) those differences may be material; and (iii) Ashland and New Ashland Inc. do not represent or warrant that there will be no such differences. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 6.11(e), the Ashland Parties do not make any representation or warranty as to the financial statements, financial position, results of operations or cash flows of MAP, as to any other statement, omission or information relating to MAP, or as to the
 
business, assets, liabilities, condition (financial or otherwise), operations or prospects of MAP.
 
(f) All Working Papers (as defined in Section 14.02) of HLHZ, relating to its engagement by Ashland have been made available to Marathon and its Representatives.
 
 
 
Marathon represents and warrants to the Ashland Parties that, as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as if made on the Closing Date (except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, in which case as of such earlier date), except as set forth in the disclosure letter, dated as of the date of this Agreement, from Marathon to Ashland (the ""); , , that no item contained in any section of the Marathon Disclosure Letter shall be deemed to qualify, or disclose any exception to, any representation or warranty made in Sections 7.04 or 7.11:
Marathon Disclosure Letter
provided
however
 
SECTION 7.01. . Marathon is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the State of Delaware and has full corporate power and authority to own, lease and otherwise hold its properties and to conduct its businesses as presently conducted. Each Significant Marathon Subsidiary (as defined in this Section 7.01) is duly organized, validly existing and, to the extent such concept or a similar concept exists in the relevant jurisdiction, in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction in which it is organized and has full corporate or other entity power and authority to own, lease or otherwise hold its properties and to conduct its businesses as presently conducted. Each of Marathon and each Significant Marathon Subsidiary is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing (where applicable) in each jurisdiction where the nature of its business or its ownership or leasing of its properties makes such qualification necessary, except in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing has not had and would not reasonably be
Organization, Standing and Power
 
expected to have a Marathon Material Adverse Effect (as defined in Section 7.05(a)). Marathon has provided to Ashland true and complete copies of the certificate of incorporation of Marathon, as amended to the date of this Agreement (as so amended, the ""), and the by-laws of Marathon, as amended to the date of this Agreement (as so amended, the ""), and the comparable charter and organizational documents of each Significant Marathon Subsidiary, in each case as amended to the date of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a "" means Marathon Company, Merger Sub, MAP and any subsidiary of Marathon that constitutes a significant subsidiary within the meaning of Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X of the SEC.
Marathon Charter
Marathon By-laws
Significant Marathon Subsidiary
 
SECTION 7.02. . (a) All the outstanding shares of capital stock of, or other equity interests in, each Significant Marathon Subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable and are as of the date of this Agreement owned by Marathon, by another subsidiary of Marathon (a "") or by Marathon and another Marathon Subsidiary, free and clear of all Liens.
Marathon Subsidiaries; Equity Interests
Marathon Subsidiary
 
(b) Merger Sub, since the date of its formation, has not carried on any business or conducted any operations other than the execution of this Agreement, the other Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, the performance of its obligations hereunder and thereunder and matters ancillary thereto.
 
SECTION 7.03. . (a) The authorized capital stock of Marathon consists of 550,000,000 shares of Marathon Common Stock and 26,000,000 shares of preferred stock, without par value ("" and, together with the Marathon Common Stock, the ""). At the close of business on February 29, 2004, (i) 310,740,454 shares of Marathon Common Stock were issued and outstanding, (ii) 1,425,524 shares of Marathon Common Stock were held by Marathon in its treasury and (iii) 37,788,193 shares of Marathon Common Stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to Marathon Stock Plans (as defined in Section 14.02). Except as set forth above, at the close of business on February 29, 2004, no shares of capital stock or other voting securities of Marathon were issued, reserved for issuance or outstanding. There are no outstanding Marathon
Capital Structure
Marathon Preferred Stock
Marathon Capital Stock
 
SARs (as defined in Section 14.02) that were not granted in tandem with a related Marathon Employee Stock Option. All outstanding shares of Marathon Capital Stock are, and all such shares that may be issued prior to the Acquisition Merger Effective Time will be when issued, duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and not subject to or issued in violation of any purchase option, call option, right of first refusal, preemptive right, subscription right or any similar right under any provision of the DGCL, the Marathon Charter, the Marathon By-laws or any Contract to which Marathon is a party or otherwise bound. As of the date of this Agreement, there are not any bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness of Marathon having the right to vote (or convertible into, or exchangeable for, securities having the right to vote) on any matters on which holders of Marathon Common Stock may vote (""). Except as set forth above, as of the date of this Agreement, there are not any options, warrants, rights, convertible or exchangeable securities, "phantom" stock rights, stock appreciation rights, stock-based performance units, commitments, Contracts, arrangements or undertakings of any kind to which Marathon or any Marathon Subsidiary is a party or by which any of them is bound (i) obligating Marathon or any Marathon Subsidiary to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, additional shares of capital stock or other equity interests in, or any security convertible or exercisable for or exchangeable into any capital stock of or other equity interest in, Marathon or any Marathon Subsidiary or any Voting Marathon Debt or (ii) obligating Marathon or any Marathon Subsidiary to issue, grant, extend or enter into any such option, warrant, call, right, security, commitment, Contract, arrangement or undertaking. As of the date of this Agreement, there are not any outstanding contractual obligations or commitments of Marathon or any Marathon Subsidiary to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of capital stock of Marathon or any Marathon Subsidiary.
Voting Marathon Debt
 
(b) All of the membership interests in Merger Sub are owned by Marathon free and clear of any Lien.
 
SECTION 7.04. . (a) Each Marathon Party has all requisite corporate or limited liability company power and authority to execute and deliver the Transaction Agreements and the
Authority; Execution and Delivery; Enforceability
 
Ancillary Agreements to which it is, or is specified to be, a party and to consummate the Transactions. For all purposes of the Put/Call Agreement (as defined in Section 12.04) and the Insurance Indemnity Agreement referred to in Section 12.05, including for purposes of amending the Put/Call Agreement as provided in Section 12.04 of this Agreement and terminating the Insurance Indemnity Agreement as provided in Section 12.05, Marathon is a party to the Put/Call Agreement and the Insurance Indemnity Agreement as the successor and assign of USX (as defined in the Put/Call Agreement). The execution and delivery by each Marathon Party of each Transaction Agreement and Ancillary Agreement to which it is, or is specified to be, a party and the consummation by each Marathon Party of the Transactions to be consummated by it under the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or limited liability company action on the part of each Marathon Party. Each Marathon Party has duly executed and delivered each Transaction Agreement to which it is a party, and each Transaction Agreement to which it is a party constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms. As of the Closing Date, each Marathon Party will have duly executed and delivered each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party, and each Ancillary Agreement to which it is a party will constitute its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms.
 
(b) The Marathon Board duly and unanimously adopted resolutions: (i) approving the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements and the Transactions; and (ii) determining that the terms of the Transactions are fair to and in the best interests of Marathon and its shareholders.
 
(c) The Board of Directors of Marathon Company (the ""), at a meeting duly called and held or by written consent, duly and unanimously adopted resolutions: (i) approving the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements and the Transactions; and (ii) determining that the terms of the Transactions are fair to and in the best interests of Marathon Company and Marathon, its sole shareholder.
Marathon Company Board
 
(d) Marathon, as the sole member of Merger Sub, has approved the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary
 
Agreements and the Transactions to which Merger Sub is, or is specified to be, a party.
 
SECTION 7.05. . (a) The execution and delivery by each Marathon Party of each Transaction Agreement to which it is a party do not, the execution and delivery of each Ancillary Agreement to which it is specified to be a party will not, and the consummation of the Transactions to be consummated by it under the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements and compliance with the terms of the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements will not, conflict with, or result in any breach or violation of or default (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) under, or give rise to a right of termination, cancelation or acceleration of any obligation or to loss of a material benefit under, or result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the properties or assets of Marathon or any Marathon Subsidiary under, any provision of (i) the Marathon Charter, the Marathon By-laws or the comparable charter or organizational documents of any Marathon Subsidiary, (ii) any Contract to which Marathon or any Marathon Subsidiary is a party or by which any of their respective properties or assets is bound or (iii) subject to the filings and other matters referred to in Section 7.05(b), any Judgment or Law applicable to Marathon or any Marathon Subsidiary or their respective properties or assets, other than, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above, any such items that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the ability of any Marathon Party to perform its obligations under the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements or on the ability of any Marathon Party to consummate the Transactions (a "").
No Conflicts; Consents
Marathon Material Adverse Effect
 
(b) No Consent of, or registration, declaration or filing with, or permit from, any Governmental Entity is required to be obtained or made by or with respect to Marathon or any Marathon Subsidiary in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of any Transaction Agreement or Ancillary Agreement or the consummation of the Transactions, other than (i) compliance with and filings under the HSR Act, (ii) the filing with the SEC of (A) the Forms S-4 and (B) such reports under Sections 13 and 16 of the Exchange Act as may be required in connection with the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements or the
 
Transactions, (iii) the filing of the Acquisition Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, (iv) such filings as may be required in connection with Taxes and (v) such other Consents, registrations, declarations, filings and permits (A) required solely by reason of the participation of any Ashland Party (as opposed to any third party) in the Transactions or (B) the failure of which to obtain or make that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Marathon Material Adverse Effect.
 
(c) The Rights Agreement between Marathon and National City Bank, as Rights Agent, dated as of September 28, 1998, as amended on July 2, 2001 and January 29, 2003 (the ""), expired on January 31, 2003, and Marathon has not, as of the date of this Agreement, entered into or adopted any other rights agreement.
Marathon Rights Agreement
 
SECTION 7.06. . (a) Marathon has filed all reports, schedules, forms, statements and other documents (including exhibits and amendments thereto) required to be filed by Marathon with the SEC since January 1, 2004 pursuant to Sections 13(a), 14(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act (the "").
SEC Documents; Undisclosed Liabilities
Marathon SEC Documents
 
(b) As of its respective date, each Marathon SEC Document complied in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder applicable to such Marathon SEC Document, and did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Except to the extent that information contained in any Marathon SEC Document has been revised or superseded by a later filed Marathon SEC Document, none of the Marathon SEC Documents contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The consolidated financial statements of Marathon included in the Marathon SEC Documents comply as to form in all material respects with applicable accounting requirements, and the published rules
 
and regulations of the SEC, with respect thereto, have been prepared in accordance with GAAP (except, in the case of unaudited statements, as permitted by Form 10-Q of the SEC) applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto) and on that basis fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial position of Marathon and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the periods shown (subject, in the case of unaudited interim financial statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments).
 
(c) Except as disclosed in the Marathon SEC Documents, as of the date of this Agreement neither Marathon nor any Marathon Subsidiary has any liabilities or obligations of any nature (whether accrued, absolute, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, disputed, undisputed, legal or equitable) required by GAAP to be set forth on a consolidated balance sheet of Marathon and its consolidated subsidiaries or disclosed in the notes thereto and that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Marathon Material Adverse Effect.
 
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 7.06, the Marathon Parties do not make any representation or warranty as to the financial statements, financial position, results of operations or cash flows of MAP, as to any other statement, omission or information relating to MAP included or incorporated by reference in the Marathon SEC Documents, or as to the business, assets, liabilities, condition (financial or otherwise), operations or prospects of MAP.
 
SECTION 7.07. . From the date of the most recent financial statements included in the Marathon SEC Documents filed and publicly available prior to the date of this Agreement, to the date of this Agreement, there has not been:
Absence of Certain Changes or Events
 
(i) any event, change, effect or development that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Marathon Material Adverse Effect;
 
(ii) any declaration, setting aside or payment of any dividends on, or any other distributions in
 
respect of, any Marathon Capital Stock, other than regular quarterly cash dividends with respect to the Marathon Common Stock, not in excess of 25 cents per share, with usual declaration, record and payment dates and in accordance with Marathon's past dividend policy; or
 
(iii) any repurchase, redemption or other acquisition for value by Marathon of any Marathon Capital Stock.
 
SECTION 7.08. . None of the information supplied or to be supplied by or on behalf of any Marathon Party for inclusion or incorporation by reference in (i) the Forms S-4 will, at the time the Forms S-4 are filed with the SEC, at any time the Forms S-4 are amended or supplemented or at the time the same become effective under the Securities Act, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or (ii) the Proxy Statement will, at the date it is first mailed to Ashland's shareholders or at the time of the Ashland Shareholders Meeting, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. The Marathon Form S-4 will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, except that no representation is made by any Marathon Party with respect to statements made or incorporated by reference therein based on information supplied by or on behalf of any Ashland Party for inclusion or incorporation by reference therein.
Information Supplied
 
SECTION 7.09. . No broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other person, other than Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and AAA, the fees and expenses of which will be paid by Marathon (except as otherwise contemplated by Section 9.03(d)(i)), and Morgan Joseph & Co., Inc., the fees and expenses of which will be paid in accordance with Section 9.04(b), is entitled to any broker's, finder's, financial advisor's or other similar fee or commission in connection with the Transactions based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of any Marathon Party.
Brokers
 
SECTION 7.10. . Marathon has received the opinion of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., dated the date of this Agreement, to the effect that, as of such date, the consideration to be provided by the Marathon Parties in the Transactions is fair to Marathon from a financial point of view.
Opinion of Financial Advisor
 
SECTION 7.11. . Marathon has received the Initial Opinions. All Working Papers of AAA relating to the Initial AAA Opinions have been made available to Ashland.
Solvency Opinions
 
SECTION 7.12. . To the knowledge of Marathon and MAP, the information provided orally or in writing to Ashland and its Representatives by or on behalf of MAP relating to MAP accounts receivable in connection with Ashland's evaluation of the Distributed Receivables, taken as a whole, does not and will not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. At the Closing, MAP will transfer to Ashland all of MAP's rights, title and interests in and to the Distributed Receivables.
MAP Accounts Receivable
 
SECTION 7.13. . Marathon intends to, or to cause one or more of its subsidiaries to, provide to the Transferred Maleic Business Employees (as defined in the Maleic Agreement) compensation and benefits in accordance with Section 4.03(j) of the Maleic Agreement and to the Transferred VIOC Centers Employees (as defined in the VIOC Agreement) retirement benefits in accordance with Section 4.03(g) of the VIOC Agreement.
Employee Benefits
 
 
 
SECTION 8.01. . (a) . Except for matters set forth in the Ashland Disclosure Letter or otherwise expressly contemplated or permitted by the Transaction Agreements or the Ancillary Agreements, from the date of this Agreement to the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, Ashland shall not, and shall not permit any Ashland Subsidiary to, without the prior written consent of
Conduct of Business
Conduct of Business by Ashland
 
Marathon, take any action (including amending its certificate of incorporation, by-laws or other comparable charter or organizational documents, or authorizing, or committing or agreeing to make, any such amendment) that would reasonably be expected to have an Ashland Material Adverse Effect. In addition, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, from the date of this Agreement to the Closing Date, Ashland shall not, and shall not permit any Ashland Subsidiary to, do any of the following without the prior written consent of Marathon:
 
(i) declare, set aside or pay any dividends on, or make any other distributions (whether in cash, stock, property or otherwise) in respect of, any Ashland Capital Stock, other than regular quarterly cash dividends with respect to the Ashland Common Stock, not in excess of 27.5 cents per share, with usual declaration, record and payment dates and in accordance with Ashland's past dividend policy, in each case other than pursuant to the Ashland Rights Agreement;
 
(ii) repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for value any Ashland Capital Stock;
 
(iii) reclassify any Ashland Capital Stock or issue or authorize the issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for shares of Ashland Capital Stock, in any such case that would (A) have an Ashland Material Adverse Effect or (B) require an amendment to this Agreement, other than, in the case of clause (B), pursuant to the Ashland Rights Agreement;
 
(iv) issue, grant, deliver, sell, pledge or dispose of any Voting Ashland Debt or any securities convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for, or any rights, warrants, calls or options to acquire, any shares of Ashland Common Stock or Voting Ashland Debt, in any such case that would (A) have an Ashland Material Adverse Effect or (B) require an amendment to this Agreement; or
 
(v) authorize, or commit or agree to take, any of the foregoing actions.
 
(b) . Except for matters set forth in the Marathon Disclosure Letter or otherwise expressly contemplated or permitted by the Transaction Agreements or the Ancillary Agreements, from the date of this Agreement to the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, Marathon shall not, and shall not permit any Marathon Subsidiary to, without the prior written consent of Ashland, take any action (including amending its certificate of incorporation, by-laws or other comparable charter or organizational documents, or authorizing, or committing or agreeing to make, any such amendment) that would reasonably be expected to have a Marathon Material Adverse Effect.
Conduct of Business by Marathon
 
(c) . Except as otherwise expressly contemplated or permitted by the Transaction Agreements or the Ancillary Agreements, from the date of this Agreement to the Closing Date, the Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties shall cause MAP and its subsidiaries to, and MAP and its subsidiaries shall, conduct their business in the ordinary course, in substantially the same manner as previously conducted (including with respect to cash distributions, capital expenditures, inventory levels, terms and conditions of receivables and payables, collection of receivables and payment of payables), and in accordance with the MAP Governing Documents (as defined in Section 14.02). In addition, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, from the date of this Agreement to the Closing Date, the Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties shall cause MAP and its subsidiaries not to, and MAP and its subsidiaries shall not, do any of the following without the prior written consent of Ashland:
Conduct of Business by MAP
 
(i) incur or assume any liabilities, obligations or indebtedness for borrowed money, or guarantee any such liabilities, obligations or indebtedness, other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;
 
(ii) buy out any lease, license or similar payment obligation or change any existing practices with respect to leasing, licensing or similar arrangements; or
 
(iii) authorize, or commit or agree to take, any of the foregoing actions.
 
The parties hereto acknowledge that the approval of Acquisition Expenditures, Capital Expenditures and such other expenditures of the type to be included in the Annual Capital Budget for any Fiscal Year that when taken together with (x) the other expenditures already approved as part of the Annual Capital Budget for such Fiscal Year and (y) all other expenditures already made in such Fiscal Year, would reasonably be expected to exceed the Normal Annual Capital Budget Amount for such Fiscal Year, constitutes a "Super Majority Decision" which requires the approval of the Board of Managers (as such terms are defined in the MAP LLC Agreement) pursuant to Section 8.07(b) of the MAP LLC Agreement (subject to certain exceptions set forth in the MAP LLC Agreement). Accordingly, from the date of this Agreement to the Closing Date, the approval of any such expenditures shall require the approval of the Board of Managers pursuant to Section 8.07(b) of the MAP LLC Agreement.
 
(d) . After the Closing, Ashland shall continue to have all the rights of a Member under Section 7.01 of the MAP LLC Agreement, as amended through the date of this Agreement (including pursuant to the MAP LLC Agreement Amendment), for purposes of auditing compliance with Sections 1.06 (Post-Closing True-Up), 8.01(c) (Conduct of Business by MAP), 9.09 (St. Paul Park Judgment and Plea Agreement; Plains Settlement) and 9.15 (MAP Partial Redemption Amount) of this Agreement and (ii) the provisions of the MAP LLC Agreement relating to distributions and loans to Ashland and Marathon Company. Any dispute regarding such compliance shall be resolved in accordance with the provisions of Article XIII of the MAP LLC Agreement, as in effect on the date of this Agreement. Any payment required as a result of such resolution shall not be subject to the limitations set forth in Sections 13.01(b) or 13.02(b) of this Agreement.
Post-Closing Examination and Dispute Resolution
 
(e) .
Other Actions
 
(i) Prior to the Closing, Ashland shall not, and shall not permit any of its subsidiaries to, take any action that would, or that is reasonably expected to, result in (A) the representations and warranties of the Ashland Parties set forth in this Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement becoming untrue or incorrect, other than such failures to be true
 
and correct that, in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have an Ashland Material Adverse Effect or (B) except as otherwise permitted by Section 8.02, any condition set forth in Article X not being satisfied.
 
(ii) Prior to the Closing, Marathon shall not, and shall not permit any of its subsidiaries to, take any action that would, or that is reasonably expected to, result in (A) the representations and warranties of the Marathon Parties set forth in this Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement becoming untrue or incorrect, other than such failures to be true and correct that, in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Marathon Material Adverse Effect or (B) any condition set forth in Article X not being satisfied.
 
(f) . Prior to the Closing, Ashland shall promptly advise Marathon in writing of any change or event that has had or would reasonably be expected to have an Ashland Material Adverse Effect and Marathon shall promptly advise Ashland in writing of any change or event that has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Marathon Material Adverse Effect.
Advice of Changes
 
SECTION 8.02. . (a) Ashland shall not, nor shall it authorize or permit any Ashland Subsidiary to, nor shall it authorize or permit any officer, director or employee of, or any investment banker, attorney, auditor or other advisor, agent or representative (collectively, "") of, Ashland or any Ashland Subsidiary to, and on becoming aware of it will use its reasonable best efforts to stop such Ashland Subsidiary or Representative from continuing to, directly or indirectly, (i) solicit, initiate or encourage the submission of any Competing Ashland Proposal (as defined in Section 8.02(e)), (ii) enter into any agreement with respect to any Competing Ashland Proposal or (iii) enter into, continue or otherwise participate in any discussions or negotiations regarding, or furnish to any person any information with respect to, or cooperate with or take any other action knowingly to facilitate any inquiries or the making of any proposal that constitutes, or would reasonably be expected to lead to, any Competing Ashland
No Solicitation
Representatives
 
Proposal; , , that, prior to receipt of the Ashland Shareholder Approval (the ""), Ashland and its Representatives may, in response to a bona fide written Competing Ashland Proposal that the Ashland Board determines, in good faith (after consultation with its financial advisor, inside counsel and outside counsel), constitutes or is reasonably likely to result in a Superior Proposal (as defined in Section 8.02(e)) that was not solicited by Ashland and that did not otherwise result from a breach or a deemed breach of this Section 8.02(a), and subject to compliance with Section 8.02(c), (x) furnish to the person making such Competing Ashland Proposal and its Representatives information with respect to Ashland, pursuant to a customary confidentiality agreement that does not contain terms that prevent Ashland from complying with its obligations under this Section 8.02, and information with respect to MAP in accordance with the MAP Governing Documents and (y) participate in discussions or negotiations with such person and its Representatives regarding any Competing Ashland Proposal.
provided
however
Cutoff Date
 
(b) Neither the Ashland Board nor any committee thereof shall (i) withdraw or modify in a manner adverse to the Marathon Parties, or propose publicly to withdraw or modify in a manner adverse to the Marathon Parties, the adoption, approval or recommendation by the Ashland Board or any such committee of the Transaction Agreements or the Transactions or (ii) adopt, approve or recommend, or propose publicly to adopt, approve or recommend, any Competing Ashland Proposal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, prior to the Cutoff Date, the Ashland Board determines in good faith, after consultation with inside and outside counsel, that the failure to take such action would be reasonably likely to result in a breach of its fiduciary obligations under applicable Law, the Ashland Board may withdraw its adoption, approval or recommendation of the Transaction Agreements and the Transactions.
 
(c) Ashland promptly shall advise Marathon in writing of any Competing Ashland Proposal or any inquiry with respect to or that would reasonably be expected to lead to any Competing Ashland Proposal and the identity of the person making any such Competing Ashland Proposal or inquiry and, in the case of a Competing Ashland Proposal referred to in clause (i) or (ii) of the definition of "Competing Ashland Proposal", the material terms and conditions of such Competing Ashland Proposal or inquiry,
 
if any, that would reasonably be expected to prevent or materially delay the Transactions or, in the case of a Competing Ashland Proposal referred to in clause (iii) of the definition of "Competing Ashland Proposal", all material terms and conditions of such Competing Ashland Proposal or inquiry, if any. Ashland shall keep Marathon reasonably informed on a timely basis of the status and, in the case of a Competing Ashland Proposal referred to in clause (i) or (ii) of the definition of "Competing Ashland Proposal", the details of such Competing Ashland Proposal or inquiry, if any, that would reasonably be expected to prevent or materially delay the Transactions or, in the case of a Competing Ashland Proposal referred to clause (iii) of the definition of "Competing Ashland Proposal", all the details of any such Competing Ashland Proposal or inquiry, if any. After the Cutoff Date, Ashland shall not be required to comply with this Section 8.02(c) in any instance to the extent that the Ashland Board determines in good faith, after consultation with inside and outside counsel, that such compliance would in such instance be reasonably likely to result in a breach of its fiduciary obligations under applicable Law.
 
(d) Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prohibit Ashland from taking and disclosing to its shareholders a position contemplated by Rule 14e-2(a) promulgated under the Exchange Act (other than a position recommending acceptance under Rule 14e-2(a)(1) of a tender offer constituting a Competing Ashland Proposal) if, in the good faith judgment of the Ashland Board, after consultation with inside and outside counsel, failure so to disclose would be inconsistent with its obligations under applicable Law.
 
(e) For purposes of this Agreement:
 
"" means (i) any proposal or offer for a merger, consolidation, share exchange, dissolution, recapitalization or other business combination involving Ashland, (ii) any proposal or offer to acquire in any manner, directly or indirectly, a majority of the equity securities or consolidated total assets of Ashland or (iii) any other proposal or offer to acquire any of Ashland's Membership Interest, in any such case other than the Transactions and, in the case of clause (i) or (ii), that would reasonably be expected to prevent or materially delay the consummation of the Transactions.
Competing Ashland Proposal
 
"" means any bona fide written Competing Ashland Proposal (other than a Competing Ashland Proposal referred to in clause (iii) of the definition thereof) which (i) the Ashland Board determines in good faith to be superior from a financial point of view to the holders of Ashland Common Stock than the Transactions (after consultation with Ashland's financial advisor), taking into account all the terms and conditions of such Competing Ashland Proposal and the Transaction Agreements (including any proposal by Marathon to amend the terms of the Transaction Agreements) and (ii) that is reasonably capable of being completed, taking into account all legal, financial, regulatory, timing and other aspects of such Competing Ashland Proposal.
Superior Proposal
 
SECTION 8.03. . From the Closing through the sixth anniversary of the Closing Date, New Ashland Inc. shall not authorize, pay or make any payment of a dividend or other distribution to its stockholders or repurchases of shares using, directly or indirectly, proceeds received from any aspect of the Transactions without the prior written consent of Marathon if, at the time of declaration or payment, New Ashland Inc. is or would be (after giving effect thereto) insolvent under any applicable fraudulent conveyance or transfer Law, as determined in good faith by the New Ashland Board in accordance with the fiduciary duties applicable to the New Ashland Board under any applicable Law, including KRS 271B.8-300 of the KBCA.
Post-Closing Dividends, Distributions and Share Repurchases
 
SECTION 8.04. . During the period beginning five business days prior to the first trading day of the Averaging Period and ending 30 days after the Closing Date, without the prior written consent of Ashland: (a) Marathon will not offer or sell any shares of Marathon Common Stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any shares of Marathon Common Stock; (b) file with the SEC any registration statement under the Securities Act relating to any such offer or sale (other than a registration statement on Form S-8); or (c) publicly disclose, except as required by applicable Law, the intention to make any such offer, sale or filing; , , that the provisions of this Section 8.04 shall not restrict or limit (i) issuances of Marathon Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or
Offerings of Marathon Common Stock
provided
however
 
exchange of convertible or exchangeable securities or the exercise of warrants or options, in each case outstanding on the fifth business day prior to the first trading day of the Averaging Period, (ii) grants of stock options to directors, officers, employees or consultants or (iii) issuances of Marathon Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of such options or otherwise pursuant to the Marathon Stock Plans. To the extent practicable, Marathon shall promptly notify Ashland if Marathon intends to make a public disclosure required by applicable Law as permitted by clause (c) of this Section 8.04.
 
 
 
SECTION 9.01. . (a) As promptly as practicable following the date of this Agreement, Ashland and Marathon shall jointly prepare, and Ashland shall file with the SEC, the Proxy Statement in preliminary form, and New Ashland Inc. and HoldCo shall prepare and file with the SEC the Ashland Form S-4 and Marathon shall prepare and file with the SEC the Marathon Form S-4, in each of which the Proxy Statement will be included as a prospectus. Each of Ashland and Marathon shall use its reasonable best efforts to respond as promptly as practicable to any comments of the SEC with respect to the Proxy Statement and the Forms S-4.
Preparation of the Forms S-4 and the Proxy Statement; Shareholders Meeting; Form 8-A or Form 10
 
(b) Each of Ashland and Marathon shall use its reasonable best efforts to have the Forms S-4 declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as practicable and on the same date. Ashland shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Proxy Statement to be mailed to Ashland's shareholders as promptly as practicable after the Forms S-4 are declared effective under the Securities Act. The parties shall also take any action (other than qualifying to do business in any jurisdiction in which it is not now so qualified) required to be taken under any applicable state securities Laws in connection with the Marathon Share Issuance, the HoldCo Share Issuance
 
and the New Ashland Inc. Share Issuance, and Ashland shall furnish all information concerning Ashland and the holders of Ashland Common Stock and rights to acquire Ashland Common Stock pursuant to the Ashland Stock Plans as may be reasonably requested in connection with any such action. The parties shall notify each other promptly of the receipt of any comments from the SEC or its staff and of any request by the SEC or its staff for amendments or supplements to the Proxy Statement or the Forms S-4, or for additional information and shall promptly supply each other with copies of all written correspondence and written or oral summaries of all material oral comments between such party or any of its representatives, on the one hand, and the SEC or its staff, on the other hand, with respect to the Proxy Statement, the Forms S-4 and the Transactions. Each of Ashland, Marathon, New Ashland Inc. and HoldCo shall cooperate and provide the other parties with a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on any amendment or supplement to the Proxy Statement and the Forms S-4 prior to filing such with the SEC, and each will provide the other parties with a copy of all such filings made with the SEC. Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary, no amendment or supplement (including by incorporation by reference) to the Proxy Statement or the Forms S-4 shall be made without the approval of both Ashland and Marathon, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; that, with respect to documents filed by a party hereto that are incorporated by reference therein, this right of approval shall apply only with respect to information relating to (i) the other party or its business, financial condition or results of operations or (ii) the Transactions. Each of the parties shall promptly provide each other party with drafts of all written correspondence intended to be sent to the SEC in connection with the Transactions and, to the extent practicable, allow each such party the opportunity to comment thereon prior to delivery to the SEC.
provided
 
(c) If prior to the Closing, any event occurs with respect to Ashland or any Ashland Subsidiary, or any change occurs with respect to other information supplied by or on behalf of Ashland for inclusion in the Proxy Statement or the Forms S-4 which is required to be described in an amendment of, or a supplement to, the Proxy Statement or the Forms S-4, Ashland shall promptly notify Marathon of such event, and Ashland and Marathon shall cooperate in the prompt filing with the SEC of any
 
necessary amendment or supplement to the Proxy Statement or the Forms S-4 and, as required by Law, in disseminating the information contained in such amendment or supplement to Ashland's shareholders.
 
(d) If prior to the Closing, any event occurs with respect to Marathon or any Marathon Subsidiary, or any change occurs with respect to other information supplied by or on behalf of Marathon for inclusion in the Proxy Statement or the Forms S-4 which is required to be described in an amendment of, or a supplement to, the Proxy Statement or the Forms S-4, Marathon shall promptly notify Ashland of such event, and Marathon and Ashland shall cooperate in the prompt filing with the SEC of any necessary amendment or supplement to the Proxy Statement or the Forms S-4, as required by Law, in disseminating the information contained in such amendment or supplement to Ashland's Shareholders.
 
(e) Ashland shall, as promptly as practicable following the effectiveness of the Forms S-4, duly call, give notice of, convene and hold a meeting of its shareholders (the "") for the purpose of seeking the Ashland Shareholder Approval. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Ashland agrees that, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, its obligations pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 9.01(e) shall not be affected by (i) the commencement, public proposal, public disclosure or other communication to Ashland of any Competing Ashland Proposal or (ii) the withdrawal of the Ashland Board's adoption, approval or recommendation of the Transaction Agreements and the Transactions.
Ashland Shareholders Meeting
 
(f) Ashland shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be delivered to Marathon a letter of Ernst & Young LLP, Ashland's independent public accountants, dated as of the date on which the Ashland Form S-4 shall become effective and addressed to Marathon, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Marathon and customary in scope and substance for "comfort" letters delivered by independent public accountants in connection with registration statements similar to the Ashland Form S-4.
 
(g) Marathon shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be delivered to Ashland a letter of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Marathon's independent public
 
accountants, dated as of the date on which the Marathon Form S-4 shall become effective and addressed to Ashland, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Ashland and customary in scope and substance for "comfort" letters delivered by independent public accountants in connection with registration statements similar to the Marathon Form S-4.
 
(h) Ashland shall use its reasonable best efforts promptly to prepare and file with the SEC a registration statement on Form 8-A or Form 10, as applicable, under the Exchange Act in connection with the New Ashland Inc. Common Stock, including the associated Ashland Rights (the "").
Exchange Act Registration Statement
 
SECTION 9.02. . Prior to the Closing, each of Ashland and Marathon shall furnish promptly to the other party such information concerning its business, properties, assets, liabilities and personnel, and shall provide such other party and such other party's officers, employees, agents and representatives, including personnel of MAP, access, at all reasonable times upon reasonable notice, to its and its subsidiaries' facilities, records and personnel, as such other party may reasonably request; , , that either party may withhold (i) any document or information that is subject to the terms of a confidentiality agreement with a third party, (ii) such portions of documents or information relating to pricing or other matters that are highly sensitive if the exchange of such documents (or portions thereof) or information, as determined by such party's counsel, might reasonably result in antitrust difficulties for such party (or any of its affiliates) and/or (iii) any document or information that it reasonably believes constitutes information protected by attorney/client privilege if such privilege would be adversely affected by reason of being so provided. If any material is withheld by such party pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence, such party shall inform the other party as to the general nature of what is being withheld and otherwise make reasonable and appropriate substitute disclosure arrangements under the circumstances. All information exchanged pursuant to this Section 9.02 shall be subject to the confidentiality agreement dated March 28, 2003, between Ashland and Marathon (the "").
Access to Information; Confidentiality
provided
however
Confidentiality Agreement
 
SECTION 9.03. . (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, each of the parties shall use its reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, and to assist and cooperate with the other parties in doing, all things necessary, proper or advisable to consummate and make effective, in the most expeditious manner practicable, the Transactions, including (i) the obtaining of all necessary actions or nonactions, waivers, consents, orders, authorizations and approvals from Governmental Entities and the making of all necessary registrations, declarations and filings (including filings with Governmental Entities, if any) and the taking of all reasonable steps as may be necessary to obtain an approval or waiver from, or to avoid an action or proceeding by, any Governmental Entity, (ii) the obtaining of all necessary consents, approvals or waivers from third parties, (iii) the defending of any lawsuits or other legal proceedings, whether judicial or administrative, challenging this Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement or the consummation of the Transactions, including seeking to have any stay or temporary restraining order entered by any court or other Governmental Entity vacated or reversed and (iv) the execution and delivery of any additional instruments necessary to consummate the Transactions and to fully carry out the purposes of the Transaction Agreements. In connection with and without limiting the foregoing, the Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties shall (i) take all action necessary to ensure that no state takeover statute or similar statute or regulation is or becomes applicable to any Transaction Agreement, any Ancillary Agreement or any Transaction and (ii) if any state takeover statute or similar statute or regulation becomes applicable to any Transaction Agreement, any Ancillary Agreement or any Transaction, take all action necessary to ensure that the Transactions may be consummated as promptly as practicable on the terms contemplated by the Transaction Agreements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Ashland and its Representatives shall not be prohibited under this Section 9.03(a) from taking any action permitted by Section 8.02. Nothing in this Section 9.03(a) shall be deemed to require Marathon to waive any rights or agree to any limitation on the operations of Marathon or any of its subsidiaries or to dispose of any asset or collection of assets of any Marathon Party or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates, in each case that would have a
Reasonable Best Efforts; Notification
 
material adverse effect on the business, condition (financial or other) or results of operations of (i) MAP, the Maleic Business and the VIOC Centers, taken as a whole, or (ii) Marathon and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
(b) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, Ashland shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the condition set forth in Section 10.02(c) (Specified Consents) to be satisfied. The parties, together with their financial advisors, shall consult periodically regarding the scope of "reasonable best efforts," which will not require Ashland to incur commercially unreasonable costs to satisfy such condition. With respect to the Ashland Public Debt (as defined in this Section 9.03(b)), the parties acknowledge that Ashland may obtain consents through a tender offer or consent solicitation (or combination thereof), to be consummated on the Closing Date and to be commenced on a date mutually agreed by Ashland and Marathon but in any event no later than five business days after the satisfaction of the last to be satisfied of the conditions set forth in Sections 10.01(a) (Ashland Shareholder Approval), 10.01(c) (Antitrust) and 10.01(f) (Receipt of Private Letter Rulings; Tax Opinions) to expressly permit the Transactions and eliminate indenture covenants, certain events of default and other relevant provisions, all as reasonably deemed by Ashland necessary to consummate the Transactions (or, in the case of a combined tender offer and consent solicitation, otherwise desirable). "" means securities outstanding as of the last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which the tender offer and/or consent solicitation is commenced (the ""), issued under the Indenture dated as of August 15, 1989, between Ashland and Citibank, N.A. and the Amendment and Restatement thereof dated as of August 15, 1990 (the ""), other than any such securities issued after the date of this Agreement. For purposes of this Section 9.03(b) and Section 10.02(c), receipt of consents from the holders of not less than 66-2/3% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities (as defined in the Indentures) of any series constitutes a consent with respect to the entire principal amount as of the Debt Consent Measurement Date, of such series. For the avoidance of doubt, receipt of consents from the holders of less than 66-2/3% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall not constitute a consent with respect to any portion of such series.
Ashland Public Debt
Debt Consent Measurement Date
Indentures
 
(c) The Marathon Parties shall use their reasonable best efforts (not including the payment of any consideration) to obtain, prior to the Closing, the written consent of Pilot Corporation, as contemplated by the Global Obligations Agreement among MAP, Speedway SuperAmerica LLC, USX Corporation, Pilot Corporation, Ashland, James A. Haslam II, James A. Haslam III, William E. Haslam and Pilot Travel Centers LLC, dated as of September 1, 2001, to the release of Ashland from its obligations contained in Article XIV of the Put/Call Agreement in accordance with Section 12.04 or, if such consent has not been obtained prior to the Closing, as promptly as possible thereafter.
 
(d) (i) The Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties shall use their reasonable best efforts to cause AAA to deliver to Ashland and Marathon the Bring-Down AAA Opinions (as defined in Section 10.01(g)) and to cause HLHZ to deliver to Ashland and Marathon the Bring-Down HLHZ Opinion (as defined in Section 10.01(g)). It is understood that (A) the Ashland Board may rely upon the Initial AAA Opinions and the Bring-Down AAA Opinions if the Ashland Board determines that such reliance is appropriate (subject to the indemnification and expense reimbursement arrangements previously agreed between Ashland and AAA) and (B) the Marathon Board may rely upon the Initial HLHZ Opinion and the Bring-Down HLHZ Opinion if the Marathon Board determines that such reliance is appropriate (subject to indemnification and expense reimbursement arrangements agreed between Marathon and HLHZ).
 
(ii) The Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties acknowledge that the sole purpose of the Bring-Down Opinions is to update the Initial Opinions based on events occurring or facts being disclosed to AAA or HLHZ, as applicable, after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing. Therefore, the parties intend that (A) each Bring-Down Opinion shall be based on the same valuation methodologies as the corresponding Initial Opinion, except for changes in methodology required as a result of events occurring or facts being disclosed to AAA or HLHZ, as applicable, after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing, and (B) events that are contemplated by AAA or HLHZ, as applicable, in the assumptions identified in its Initial Opinion should not be considered to
 
have occurred after the date of this Agreement in determining whether to deliver the corresponding Bring-Down Opinion.
 
(iii) Prior to the Closing, the Ashland Parties and MAP shall meet periodically with personnel of AAA and HLHZ and shall provide AAA and HLHZ access at all reasonable times upon reasonable prior request to their respective personnel, properties, books and records to the extent reasonably required for the purpose of delivering the Bring-Down Opinions.
 
(iv) At any time prior to the Closing, either Ashland or Marathon may request that AAA or HLHZ (A) update its Working Papers and analysis based on events occurring or facts disclosed to it after the date of this Agreement and prior to the date of such request and (B) based on such update, advise Ashland and Marathon of any facts or circumstances that are expected to result in it being unable to deliver its Bring-Down Opinion as of such date. The Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties shall be deemed to have jointly requested AAA or HLHZ to comply with any such request as promptly as practicable.
 
(v) In the event that AAA or HLHZ shall notify Ashland and Marathon of any facts or circumstances that are expected to result in it being unable to deliver its Bring-Down Opinion, Ashland or MAP, as applicable, shall have the right for a period of three months, or such shorter period as Ashland or MAP, as applicable, may elect, to meet and confer with, and provide additional information to, AAA or HLHZ, as applicable, for purposes of resolving any concerns relating to such facts and circumstances. The Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties shall use their reasonable best efforts to cause AAA or HLHZ, as applicable (based on such information and any efforts by Ashland or MAP, as applicable, to cure or otherwise address such facts and circumstances), to advise Ashland and Marathon as promptly as practicable after the expiration of such period
 
whether it would be able to deliver its Bring-Down Opinion as of such date.
 
(vi) The Working Papers of AAA and HLHZ relating to the Bring-Down Opinions, and any other Working Papers of AAA and HLHZ prepared pursuant to this Section 9.03(d) or otherwise relating to the Transactions, shall be made available to the Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties upon request at any time prior to or after the Closing. The Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties shall use their reasonable best efforts to cause AAA and HLHZ to provide the Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties reasonable access to the personnel of AAA and HLHZ involved in the Bring-Down Opinions, during normal business hours upon reasonable prior request, at any time prior to the Closing to discuss matters relating to such Working Papers.
 
(vii) At any time after August 1, 2004, or such earlier date as Ashland and Marathon may agree, and prior to the Closing, either Ashland or Marathon may request that AAA prepare a draft of the Bring-Down AAA Opinions or that HLHZ prepare a draft of the Bring-Down HLHZ Opinion, in each case marked to show any proposed changes from the applicable form included in Section 10.01(g) of the Marathon Disclosure Letter or in Section 10.01(g) of the Ashland Disclosure Letter, respectively, based on events occurring or facts disclosed to AAA or HLHZ after the date of this Agreement. The Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties shall be deemed to have jointly requested AAA or HLHZ to comply with any such request as promptly as practicable. Ashland and Marathon may review and comment on any such proposed changes and may meet and confer with AAA and HLHZ for purposes of resolving any such comments prior to the Closing.
 
(e) Prior to the Closing, Ashland shall give prompt notice to Marathon of: (i) any representation or warranty made by the Ashland Parties contained in the Transaction Agreements becoming untrue or incorrect, other than such failures to be true and correct that, in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have an Ashland Material Adverse Effect;
 
that, for purposes of determining whether notice is required under this clause (i), the representations and warranties of the Ashland Parties shall be deemed not qualified by any references therein to (A) materiality generally or (B) whether or not any breach, circumstance or other item has resulted or would reasonably be expected to result in an Ashland Material Adverse Effect; (ii) the failure by any of the Ashland Parties to perform in all material respects their respective obligations under the Transaction Agreements; (iii) any notice or other communication any Ashland Party receives from any Governmental Entity or other person alleging, to the knowledge of Ashland, with reasonable specificity, that a Consent of, or registration, declaration or filing with, or permit from, such Governmental Entity or other person is or may be required in connection with the execution and delivery of or performance under any Transaction Agreement or the consummation of the Transactions, or that any such action would violate any applicable Law or breach or otherwise conflict with any material agreement to which any of the Ashland Parties are parties or are otherwise bound; or (iv) any action, suit, claim, investigation or proceeding commenced or, to its knowledge, threatened, in each case seeking to restrain or prohibit or otherwise materially affecting the Transactions; , , that no such notification shall affect the representations, warranties or obligations of the Ashland Parties or the conditions to the obligations of the Ashland Parties or the Marathon Parties under the Transaction Agreements.
provided
provided
however
 
(f) Prior to the Closing, Marathon shall give prompt notice to Ashland of: (i) any representation or warranty made by the Marathon Parties contained in the Transaction Agreements becoming untrue or incorrect, other than such failures to be true and correct that, in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Marathon Material Adverse Effect; that, for purposes of determining whether notice is required under this clause (i), the representations and warranties of the Marathon Parties shall be deemed not qualified by any references therein to (A) materiality generally or (B) whether or not any breach, circumstance or other item has resulted or would reasonably be expected to result in a Marathon Material Adverse Effect; (ii) the failure by any of the Marathon Parties to perform in all material respects their respective obligations under the Transaction Agreements; (iii) any notice or other
provided
 
communication any Marathon Party receives from any Governmental Entity or other person alleging, to the knowledge of Marathon, with reasonable specificity, that a Consent of, or registration, declaration or filing with, or permit from, such Governmental Entity or other person is or may be required in connection with the execution and delivery of or performance under any Transaction Agreement or the consummation of the Transactions, or that any such action would violate any applicable Law or breach or otherwise conflict with any material agreement to which any of the Marathon Parties are parties or are otherwise bound; or (iv) any action, suit, claim, investigation or proceeding commenced or, to its knowledge, threatened, in each case seeking to restrain or prohibit or otherwise materially affecting the Transactions; , , that no such notification shall affect the representations, warranties or obligations of the Marathon Parties or the conditions to the obligations of the Ashland Parties or the Marathon Parties under the Transaction Agreements. Marathon shall give prompt notice to Ashland of: (i) any commitment referred to in the definition of Market MAC Event contained in Section 14.02 ceasing to be in full force and effect or (ii) any assertion by one or more Third Party Lenders who have provided such commitment with respect to the HoldCo Borrowing that a market disruption or other similar event has occurred that would result in the non-satisfaction of the Market MAC Condition to the HoldCo Borrowing.
provided
however
 
(g) The Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties shall comply with the obligations set forth in Sections 11.03(a) and 11.03(b) of the Put/Call Agreement with respect to the transfer of the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest as if Marathon Company had exercised the Marathon Call Right (as defined in the Put/Call Agreement) thereunder on the date of this Agreement. The Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties shall use their reasonable best efforts (not including the payment of any consideration) to obtain (i) any consents or approvals (in addition to those contemplated by Sections 11.03(a) and 11.03(b) of the Put/Call Agreement) required for the transfer of the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest to HoldCo and the acquisition of the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest by Merger Sub in the Acquisition Merger as contemplated by this Agreement and (ii) express releases of Ashland, executed and delivered by all parties to the LOOP T&D Agreement or the LOCAP T&D Agreement, as applicable,
 
effective as of the Closing, from all liabilities, obligations and commitments under the LOOP T&D Agreement and the LOCAP T&D Agreement, regardless of whether such liabilities, obligations or commitments arose before or after the Closing. Merger Sub shall execute such further instruments of assumption as may be required as a result of the acquisition of the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest by Merger Sub in the Acquisition Merger as contemplated by this Agreement. If Ashland is not released from all liabilities, obligations and commitments under the LOCAP T&D Agreement in accordance with clause (ii) of the second immediately preceding sentence, Ashland shall cause the LOCAP T&D Assumption Agreement (as defined in Section 14.02) to be executed and delivered by the parties specified therein to be parties thereto, and if Ashland has not been released from all liabilities, obligations and commitments under the LOOP T&D Agreement in accordance with this Section 9.03(g), Ashland shall cause the LOOP T&D Assumption Agreement (as defined in Section 14.02) to be executed and delivered by the parties specified therein to be parties thereto, in each case as contemplated by Section 1.02(b).
 
SECTION 9.04. . (a) Except as provided below, all fees and expenses (including any broker's or finder's fees and the expenses of representatives and counsel) incurred in connection with the Transactions shall be paid by the party incurring such fees or expenses, whether or not the Transactions are consummated.
Fees and Expenses
 
(b) Ashland and Marathon shall share equally (i) fees and expenses of Morgan Joseph & Co., Inc. in connection with its appraisal of the Maleic Business and the VIOC Centers, (ii) fees and expenses of D&T for purposes of allocating the value of MAP to its assets in anticipation of the MAP Partial Redemption and for use by Marathon for GAAP reporting purposes, (iii) fees and expenses of Patton Boggs LLP in connection with obtaining the consent from the Department of Transportation with respect to the transfer of Ashland's interest in LOOP LLC, as required by the permit issued by the Department of Transportation relating to LOOP LLC, (iv) fees and expenses incurred in connection with filing, printing and mailing of the Proxy Statement and the Forms S-4, including the SEC filing fees associated with the Proxy Statement, the Marathon Form S-4 and the Ashland Form S-4; ,
provided
 
, that each of Ashland and Marathon shall pay the fees and expenses of their respective counsel and independent auditors in connection with the preparation and filing of such documents and (v) fees and expenses of one firm engaged by Ashland, and reasonably acceptable to Marathon, with respect to the solicitation of proxies in connection with the Ashland Shareholders Meeting. Except as set forth in Section 9.03(d)(i), Marathon shall pay the fees and expenses of AAA in connection with the Initial AAA Opinions and the Bring-Down AAA Opinions and Ashland shall pay the fees and expenses of HLHZ in connection with the Initial HLHZ Opinion and the Bring-Down HLHZ Opinion. Marathon shall pay the fees (other than any guarantee fee payable after Closing pursuant to the Reimbursement Agreement) and expenses relating to the HoldCo Borrowing. Merger Sub shall pay any guarantee fee payable after Closing pursuant to the Reimbursement Agreement. Ashland shall pay the fees and expenses relating to obtaining the consents referred to in Section 10.02(c) (Specified Consents). Costs and expenses incurred in connection with the arrangements described in Section 9.02(e) of the Put/Call Agreement, if applicable, shall be allocated in accordance with such section.
however
 
(c) Ashland shall pay to Marathon a fee of $30,000,000 (the "") if: (i) Marathon terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 11.01(d); (ii) Ashland terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 11.01(f); or (iii) any person makes a Competing Ashland Proposal that was publicly disclosed prior to the Ashland Shareholders Meeting and not withdrawn by the date of the Ashland Shareholders Meeting and thereafter this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 11.01(b)(iii) and within 15 months of such termination Ashland enters into a definitive agreement to consummate, or consummates, any transaction (other than a transaction involving Marathon or any of its affiliates, or any successor thereto under the Put/Call Agreement, as a party thereto) of a kind described in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) of the definition of "Competing Ashland Proposal" (solely for purposes of this Section 9.04(c), the term "Competing Ashland Proposal" shall have the meaning set forth in the definition of Competing Ashland Proposal contained in Section 8.02(e) except that the reference to "any of Ashland's Membership Interest" in clause (iii) thereof shall be deemed a reference to "a majority of Ashland's Membership Interest"). Any fee due under this Section 9.04(c) shall
Termination Fee
 
be paid by wire transfer of same-day funds (A) in the case of clause (i) or (ii) of the preceding sentence, on the date of termination of this Agreement, and (B) in the case of clause (iii) of the preceding sentence, on the date of execution of such definitive agreement or, if earlier, consummation of such transactions.
 
(d) Ashland shall pay to Marathon $10,000,000 (which shall be in addition to any Termination Fee payable pursuant to Section 9.04(c)), which Ashland and Marathon agree is a reasonable estimate of Marathon's expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement, if (i) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 11.01(c) or (ii) Ashland is obligated to pay the Termination Fee under Section 9.04(c). Any fee due under Section 9.04(d)(i) shall be payable upon demand following such termination. Any fee due under Section 9.04(d)(ii) shall be paid by wire transfer of same-day funds on the date of payment of the Termination Fee. The payment by Ashland to Marathon under this Section 9.04(d) following termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 11.01(c) shall not impair any claim for damages or any other right or remedy available to Marathon (other than for expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement), at law or in equity, arising out of or resulting from any breach or failure to perform which gave rise to Marathon's right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 11.01(c).
 
(e) Marathon shall pay to Ashland $10,000,000, which Ashland and Marathon agree is a reasonable estimate of Ashland's expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement, if this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 11.01(e), payable upon demand following such termination. The payment by Marathon to Ashland under this Section 9.04(e) following termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 11.01(e) shall not impair any claim for damages or any other right or remedy available to Ashland (other than for expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement), at law or in equity, arising out of or resulting from any breach or failure to perform which gave rise to Ashland's right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 11.01(e).
 
SECTION 9.05. . The Ashland Parties, on the one hand, and the Marathon Parties, on the other hand, shall consult with each other before issuing, and provide each other the opportunity to review and comment upon, any press release or other similar written or
Public Announcements
 
scripted public statements (including communications to employees generally of MAP, the Maleic Business or the VIOC Centers) with respect to the Transactions and shall not issue any such press release or make any such public statement prior to such consultation, except as may be required by applicable Law, court process or by obligations pursuant to any listing agreement with or rules of any national securities exchange.
 
SECTION 9.06. . Prior to the date of the Ashland Shareholders Meeting, Ashland shall deliver to Marathon a letter identifying all persons who are expected by Ashland to be, at the date of the Ashland Shareholders Meeting, "affiliates" of Ashland for purposes of Rule 145 under the Securities Act, and Ashland shall update such list if necessary prior to the Closing to identify all persons Ashland reasonably believes may have been "affiliates" of Ashland for purposes of Rule 145 under the Securities Act on the date of the Ashland Shareholders Meeting. Ashland shall use its reasonable best efforts (not including the payment of any consideration) to cause each such person to deliver to Marathon on or prior to the Closing Date a written agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C.
Affiliates
 
SECTION 9.07. . (a) Marathon shall prepare and submit to the NYSE an application (or amendment thereto) for listing on the NYSE of the Marathon Common Stock to be issued in the Acquisition Merger, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain, prior to the Ashland Shareholders Meeting, approval for the listing of such shares, subject to official notice of issuance.
Stock Exchange Listings
 
(b) Ashland and New Ashland Inc. shall prepare and submit to the NYSE or The Nasdaq Stock Market ("") an application (or amendment thereto) for listing on the NYSE or NASDAQ of the New Ashland Inc. Common Stock to be issued to holders of Ashland Common Stock in the Acquisition Merger, and shall use their reasonable best efforts to obtain, prior to the Ashland Shareholders Meeting, approval for the listing of such shares, subject to official notice of issuance.
NASDAQ
 
SECTION 9.08. . (a) If any Distribution Date occurs under the Ashland Rights Agreement at any time during the period from the date of this Agreement to the Acquisition
Rights Agreements; Consequences if Rights Triggered
 
Merger Effective Time, Ashland and Marathon shall make such adjustment to Articles II, III and IV as Ashland and Marathon shall mutually agree so as to preserve the economic benefits that Ashland and Marathon each reasonably expected on the date of this Agreement to receive as a result of the consummation of the Transactions.
 
(b) In the event that Marathon enters into or adopts a rights agreement and, at any time from the date of this Agreement to the Closing Date, a "distribution date", "share acquisition date", "triggering event" or similar event occurs thereunder, the Marathon Board shall take such actions as are necessary under such rights agreement to provide that rights certificates representing an appropriate number of Marathon rights are issued to former Ashland shareholders who receive Marathon Common Stock pursuant to the Acquisition Merger. If Marathon is not permitted under such rights agreement to provide rights certificates to such former Ashland shareholders, Ashland and Marathon shall make such adjustment to Article IV as Ashland and Marathon shall mutually agree so as to preserve the economic benefits that Ashland and Marathon each reasonably expected on the date of this Agreement to receive as a result of the consummation of the Transactions.
 
SECTION 9.09. . (a) After the Closing, (i) MAP shall complete the St. Paul Park QQQ Project (as defined in this Section 9.09(a))(if it has not been completed prior to the Closing) and (ii) the Marathon Parties shall allow New Ashland Inc., the United States Probation Office and their respective consultants and advisors appropriate access to the St. Paul Park refinery to allow them to monitor and ascertain completion of the St. Paul Park QQQ Project and assure compliance of the "systems" (as defined in the St. Paul Park Judgment and Plea Agreement (as defined in Section 14.02)) with the St. Paul Park Judgment and Plea Agreement. The "" means the upgrade of all process sewers, junction boxes and drains at the St. Paul Park refinery to comply with Subpart QQQ of the New Source Performance Standards of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C.  7413(c)(1), in accordance with the St. Paul Park Judgment and Plea Agreement.
St. Paul Park Judgment and Plea Agreement; Plains Settlement
St. Paul Park QQQ Project
 
(b) Ashland or New Ashland Inc. shall bear the cost of the St. Paul Park QQQ Project incurred after
 
January 1, 2003 not to exceed $9,670,000 (if the Closing occurs on or before December 31, 2004) or the amount of the Price Reduction (as defined in Amendment No. 1 to the Put/Call Agreement) (if the Closing occurs after December 31, 2004) (the ""). The following amounts shall be credited against the St. Paul Park QQQ Project Payment Amount: (i) 38% of (A) all out-of-pocket costs incurred after January 1, 2003 by MAP and (B) internal engineering costs of MAP incurred after January 1, 2003, in each case for which MAP has not been reimbursed by Ashland, prior to the Closing, in each case arising out of or relating to the St. Paul Park QQQ Project, (ii) all out-of-pocket costs incurred after January 1, 2003 by MAP and internal engineering costs of MAP incurred after January 1, 2003, for which MAP has been reimbursed by Ashland, prior to the Closing, in each case arising out of or relating to the St. Paul Park QQQ Project, and (iii) $1,569,400, which amount represents 38% of the $4,130,000 paid by MAP as part of the Plains Settlement (the sum of the amount referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) being the ""). MAP shall provide to Ashland, at least two business days prior to the Closing Date, a written statement setting forth in reasonable detail its calculation of the amounts referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) of the preceding sentence. Promptly following the Closing, if the St. Paul Park QQQ Project Payment Amount exceeds the Prior Payments, New Ashland Inc. shall, and if the Prior Payments exceed the St. Paul Park QQQ Project Payment Amount, MAP shall, make payment to the other party of the amount of such excess, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated in writing by MAP or New Ashland Inc., as applicable, at least two business days prior to the Closing Date.
St. Paul Park QQQ Project Payment Amount
Prior Payments
 
SECTION 9.10. . The parties acknowledge that, pursuant to the MAP Governing Documents, Ashland is obligated to pay to MAP an amount equal to any dividends or distributions that Ashland receives in respect of the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest net of certain Taxes imposed on Ashland or withheld from such dividends or distributions, and accordingly, the economic benefits of the foregoing have already been effectively transferred to MAP. Accordingly, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, it shall not be a condition to the Closing or the effectiveness of any of the
Consequences of Inability To Transfer the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest on the Closing Date
 
Transactions that Ashland shall have contributed the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest to HoldCo in accordance with Section 1.02(b) and the MAP/LOOP/LOCAP Contribution Agreements. In the event that any consents or approvals required for the transfer of the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest are not obtained prior to the Closing, and as a consequence Ashland is not able to contribute the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest to HoldCo on the Closing Date, the provisions set forth in Sections 9.02(e), 13.03 and 13.04 of the Put/Call Agreement shall apply; , , that, from and after the Closing, any payments described in the first sentence of this Section 9.10 shall be made by New Ashland Inc. to Merger Sub for the benefit of MAP.
provided
however
 
SECTION 9.11. . Ashland and Marathon shall use their reasonable best efforts (not including the payment of any consideration) to obtain any Consents of third parties necessary to effect the assignment to and assumption by HoldCo of, and the release of Ashland from, the Assigned Contracts (as defined in each of the Maleic Agreement and the VIOC Agreement), including in the case of the Marathon Parties by providing such assurances regarding performance by Merger Sub (as successor to HoldCo) after the Closing as may be reasonably required to obtain such Consents.
Consents Under Assigned Contracts
 
SECTION 9.12. . After the Closing, if the Marathon Parties receive notice or become aware of any consent decree or order, notice of violation, administrative enforcement action or similar administrative action (each, an "") relating to MAP and naming Ashland as a responsible party, the Marathon Parties shall promptly notify Ashland of such Administrative Proceeding. Ashland may take, and MAP shall provide Ashland with such cooperation as Ashland may reasonably request in connection with, any reasonable action to remove Ashland's name from such Administrative Proceeding, so long as such removal is appropriate under the circumstances (taking into consideration the applicable provisions of the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements, the MAP Governing Documents and applicable Law). Nothing in this Section 9.12 is intended to affect MAP's right to control its defense of such Administrative Proceedings.
Administrative Proceedings
Administrative Proceeding
 
SECTION 9.13. . To the extent any Distributed Receivable is reduced or canceled (other than as a result of a breach by
Replacement of Distributed Receivables
 
the obligor thereof of its payment obligation), or to the extent Ashland makes any payment in respect of proceeds of any Distributed Receivable to the holder of any Lien referred to in clause (iv) below after the collection of such Distributed Receivable in order to satisfy such Lien, including as a result of (i) defective or rejected goods or services, any cash discount or governmental or regulatory action, (ii) a setoff in respect of any claim by the obligor thereof, (iii) an obligation of MAP to pay the obligor thereof any rebate or refund or (iv) any Lien with respect to such Distributed Receivable, other than any Lien arising from actions or inactions of any of the Ashland Parties or their affiliates (and not any of the Marathon Parties or their affiliates), then MAP shall promptly assign to Ashland accounts receivable of MAP, selected in accordance with the protocol set forth in Exhibit A, with a total Value equal to, in the case of a reduction, the Value of such reduction, in the case of a payment, the amount of such payment, or, in the case of a cancelation, the Value of such Distributed Receivable. Ashland shall assign back to MAP any Distributed Receivables that have been replaced pursuant to this Section 9.13.
 
SECTION 9.14. . Within 120 days after the date of this Agreement, Marathon shall provide written notice to Ashland specifying which of the services currently being performed by Ashland for the Maleic Business that Marathon requests New Ashland Inc. to continue to perform during the transition period after the Closing specified in, and in accordance with the terms of, the Transition Services Agreement (as defined in the Maleic Agreement). Prior to the Closing, Ashland and Marathon shall agree on the scope of such transition services and shall prepare appropriate schedules to the Transition Services Agreement to reflect such transition services. Unless otherwise agreed by Ashland and Marathon, the fees for such transition services shall be as specified in Section 2.1 (without regard to clause (i) of the first sentence thereof) of the form of Transition Services Agreement attached as an exhibit to the Maleic Agreement. Such transition services shall be provided during the term specified in Section 2.2 of such form of Transition Services Agreement, subject to the termination and notice provisions specified therein.
Transition Services
 
SECTION 9.15. . (a) Ashland shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause
MAP Partial Redemption Amount
 
Deloitte & Touche LLP ("") to provide Ashland and Marathon, on or prior to August 15, 2004, (i) a preliminary report prepared by D&T setting forth D&T's good faith estimate as to the respective amounts of accounts receivable and cash to be distributed by MAP in the MAP Partial Redemption and (ii) any supporting schedules and other information prepared by D&T in connection with such report as Marathon may reasonably request. Ashland shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause D&T to provide Ashland and Marathon any updates to such report, schedules and other information from time to time as Marathon may reasonably request.
D&T
 
(b) The Marathon Parties shall cause MAP to have available for distribution at Closing in the MAP Partial Redemption cash in an amount, and accounts receivable with a Value, which in the aggregate equal the Estimated MAP Partial Redemption Amount. The Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties shall use their reasonable best efforts to cause MAP to have available for distribution at Closing in the MAP Partial Redemption cash in an amount equal to the Cash Amount and accounts receivable with a total Value equal to the AR Amount. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8.01(c) or any provision of the MAP LLC Agreement (as amended by the MAP LLC Agreement Amendment or otherwise amended hereafter), and without requiring a vote pursuant to Section 8.07(b) of the MAP LLC Agreement (as amended by the MAP LLC Agreement Amendment or otherwise amended hereafter), in the event Marathon reasonably expects that MAP will not have sufficient cash and accounts receivable available for distribution to Ashland to fund the payment of the Estimated MAP Partial Redemption Amount (after taking into account MAP's reasonably anticipated working capital requirements) on the expected Closing Date, MAP shall be permitted to sell or otherwise dispose of assets, or enter into sale/leaseback arrangements, in each case in arm's-length transactions with unaffiliated third parties, that are treated for Federal income Tax purposes as dispositions, not borrowings, in order to raise funds to satisfy such funding requirement.
 
(c) If the Closing occurs, all Tax Items (as defined in the Tax Matters Agreement) from any sale, disposition or sale/leaseback arrangement effected pursuant to Section 9.15(b) that is not effected in the ordinary course of MAP's business and is not reflected in MAP's "Business/Tactical Plan & Budget 2004-2006" dated
 
December 16, 2003 shall be allocated to Marathon Company. The Marathon Parties shall (i) promptly notify Ashland of any written proposal made or received by any of the Marathon Parties relating to such a sale, disposition or sale/leaseback arrangement, and in any event shall notify Ashland of any such proposed sale, disposition or sale/leaseback arrangement not less than five days prior to entering into an agreement to effect any such sale, disposition or sale/leaseback arrangement; (ii) in connection with any such proposal, advise Ashland in writing of the assets to be transferred, the identity of the proposed transferee and the material terms and conditions of the proposed sale, disposition or sale/leaseback arrangement; (iii) keep Ashland reasonably informed on a timely basis of the status and details of such proposed sale, disposition or sale/leaseback arrangement, prior to and after entering into an agreement to effect any such sale, disposition or sale/leaseback arrangement, including any details that may affect the timing of the Transactions, and provide Ashland with copies of all material documents related to such proposed sale, disposition or sale/leaseback arrangement; and (iv) use its reasonable best efforts to effect the closing of any such sale, disposition or sale/leaseback arrangement substantially concurrently with the Closing.
 
(d) Ashland shall provide Marathon not less than 90 days notice if Ashland intends to waive the condition set forth in Section 10.02(f), in which case the Marathon Parties shall cause MAP to have available for distribution at Closing in the MAP Partial Redemption such additional cash as may be required to comply with the first sentence of Section 9.15(b).
 
SECTION 9.16. . No later than August 1, 2004, Ashland shall provide to Marathon a schedule setting forth estimates, prepared in good faith by Ashland in light of any communications with the Internal Revenue Service (the ""), written or otherwise, of the Ashland Debt Obligation Amounts based on assumed Closing Dates occurring on the last day of each month from August of 2004 through June of 2005. Ashland shall update such schedule promptly following any communication with the IRS, written or otherwise, that would materially affect the Ashland Debt Obligation Amount for any assumed Closing Date. Within five business days of
Ashland Debt Obligation Amount
IRS
 
Ashland's receipt of the Private Letter Rulings, Ashland shall provide to Marathon a schedule setting forth the Ashland Debt Obligation Amount for each such assumed Closing Date after the date of such schedule. Ashland shall not, without the prior written consent of Marathon, effect any repurchase, repayment or defeasance prior to the Closing Date of any debt outstanding as of the date of this Agreement (and any refinancings of such debt by Ashland or any of its affiliates) that would reduce the Ashland Debt Obligation Amount (taking into consideration any refinancing of such debt by Ashland or any of its affiliates), except to the extent required by the terms of such debt (including, with respect to obligations other than (i) the Ashland Public Debt, (ii) any other debt issued after the date of this Agreement to refinance any portion of the Ashland Debt Obligation Amount and (iii) Ashland's industrial revenue bonds, as a result of any notice of Ashland's intent to repurchase, repay or defease such obligations on an expected Closing Date; , that such notice is delivered by Ashland after the satisfaction of the last to be satisfied of the conditions set forth in Sections 10.01(a) (Ashland Shareholder Approval), 10.01(c) (Antitrust) and 10.01(f) (Receipt of Private Letter Rulings; Tax Opinions)).
provided
 
 
 
SECTION 10.01. The respective obligation of the Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties to effect the Transactions is subject to the satisfaction or waiver on or prior to the Closing Date of the following conditions:
Conditions to the Ashland Parties' and the Marathon Parties' Obligations to Effect the Transactions.
 
(a) Ashland shall have obtained the Ashland Shareholder Approval.
Ashland Shareholder Approval.
 
(b) The shares of Marathon Common Stock issuable in the Marathon Share Issuance shall have been approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance, and the shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock issuable in the New Ashland Inc. Share Issuance shall have been approved for listing on the NYSE or NASDAQ, subject to official notice of issuance.
Listing.
 
(c) Any waiting period (and any extension thereof) applicable to the Transactions under the HSR Act shall have been terminated or shall have expired. Any consents, approvals and filings under any foreign antitrust Law, the absence of which would prohibit the consummation of the Transactions, shall have been obtained or made.
Antitrust.
 
(d) No temporary restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction or other order issued by any court of competent jurisdiction or other Governmental Entity or other legal restraint or prohibition preventing or making unlawful the consummation of the Transactions shall be in effect; , , that prior to asserting this condition, subject to Section 9.03, each of the parties shall have used its reasonable best efforts to prevent the entry of any such injunction or other order and to appeal as promptly as possible any such injunction or other order that may be entered or otherwise have any such injunction or other order lifted or vacated.
No Injunctions or Restraints.
provided
however
 
(e) The Forms S-4 shall have become effective under the Securities Act and shall not be the subject of any stop order or proceedings seeking a stop order, and Marathon shall have received any state securities or "blue sky" authorizations necessary to effect the Marathon Share Issuance. Ashland shall have received any state securities or "blue sky" authorizations necessary to effect the HoldCo Share Issuance and the New Ashland Inc. Share Issuance. The Exchange Act Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Exchange Act and shall not be the subject of any stop order or proceedings seeking a stop order.
Forms S-4 and Exchange Act Registration Statement.
 
(f) Ashland and Marathon shall have received the private letter rulings from the Internal Revenue Service, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Ashland Board and the Marathon Board, and the Tax opinions, dated as of the Closing Date, set forth in Exhibit D (such private letter rulings, the "", and such Tax opinions, the "") with respect to the Transactions, and the Private Letter Rulings shall be in effect as of the Closing Date.
Receipt of Private Letter Rulings; Tax Opinions.
Private Letter Rulings
Tax Opinions
 
(g) Ashland and Marathon shall have received two "bring-down" solvency opinions of AAA dated as of the Closing Date and in substantially the form included in Section 10.01(g) of the Marathon Disclosure Letter (the "") and a "bring-down" solvency opinion of HLHZ dated as of the Closing Date and in substantially the form included in Section 10.01(g) of the Ashland Disclosure Letter (the "" and, together with the Bring-Down AAA Opinion, the "").
Solvency Opinions.
Bring-Down AAA Opinions
Bring-Down HLHZ Opinion
Bring-Down Opinions
 
SECTION 10.02. The obligations of the Ashland Parties to effect the Transactions are further subject to the following conditions:
Conditions to Obligations of the Ashland Parties.
 
(a) The representations and warranties of the Marathon Parties in the Transaction Agreements shall be true and correct as of the Closing Date as though made on the Closing Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date (in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct as of such earlier date), other than such failures to be true and correct that, individually and in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Marathon Material Adverse Effect. Ashland shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of Marathon by the chief executive officer or the chief financial officer of Marathon to such effect. For purposes of determining the satisfaction of this condition only, the representations and warranties of the Marathon Parties shall be deemed not qualified by any references therein to (A) materiality generally or (B) whether or not any breach, circumstance or other item has resulted or would reasonably be expected to result in a Marathon Material Adverse Effect.
Representations and Warranties.
 
(b) The Marathon Parties shall have performed in all material respects the obligations required to be performed by them under the Transaction Agreements at or prior to the Closing Date, and Ashland shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of Marathon by the chief executive officer or the chief financial officer of Marathon to such effect.
Performance of Obligations of the Marathon Parties.
 
(c) Ashland shall have received irrevocable consents (which shall be in full force and effect) to the Transactions with respect to series of
Specified Consents.
 
Ashland Public Debt with an aggregate principal amount as of the Debt Consent Measurement Date representing at least 90% of the aggregate principal amount of all series of Ashland Public Debt as of such date.
 
(d) If the New Ashland Inc. Share Issuance is to be effected through a distribution in accordance with Section 1.04(b), the Ashland Board and the Board of Directors of HoldCo shall have determined in good faith that such distribution will be in compliance with all applicable Law relating to such distribution.
Distributions to Former Ashland Shareholders.
 
(e) Except as disclosed in documents filed by Marathon with the SEC and publicly available on or before the date that is five business days prior to the first trading day of the Averaging Period, and except for such events, changes, effects or developments relating to the economy of the United States or foreign economies in general or generally affecting any industry in which Marathon or any of its subsidiaries operate, from the date of this Agreement to the Closing Date, there shall not have been any event, change, effect or development that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, assets, condition (financial or otherwise), operations or results of operation of Marathon and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and Ashland shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of Marathon by the chief executive officer or the chief financial officer of Marathon to such effect. Failure to deliver such certificate, or the occurrence of any such event, change, effect or development, shall not give rise to a right to terminate this Agreement under Section 11.01(e).
Absence of Undisclosed Material Adverse Effect.
 
(f) In order to effect the MAP Partial Redemption, MAP shall have available for distribution at Closing accounts receivable, each with a Federal income Tax basis no less than its face amount, of MAP with a total Value equal to the AR Amount (calculated without giving effect to any increase in the MAP Partial Redemption Amount pursuant to the second sentence of Section 1.01).
MAP Accounts Receivable.
 
(g) Ashland shall have received a certificate dated the Closing Date and signed on behalf of Marathon by the chief executive officer
Receivables Sales Facility.
 
or the chief financial officer of Marathon to the effect (A) that Marathon has not delivered the notice referred to in Section 7.03(b)(vi) of the Tax Matters Agreement or (B) that MAP will not make any sales of receivables during the two-year period beginning on the Closing Date.
 
SECTION 10.03. The obligations of the Marathon Parties to effect the Transactions are further subject to the following conditions:
Conditions to Obligations of the Marathon Parties.
 
(a) The representations and warranties of the Ashland Parties in the Transaction Agreements shall be true and correct as of the Closing Date as though made on the Closing Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date (in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct as of such earlier date), other than such failures to be true and correct that, individually and in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have an Ashland Material Adverse Effect. Marathon shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of Ashland by the chief executive officer or the chief financial officer of Ashland to such effect. For purposes of determining the satisfaction of this condition only: (i) the representations and warranties of the Ashland Parties shall be deemed not qualified by any references therein to (A) materiality generally or (B) whether or not any breach, circumstance or other item has resulted or would reasonably be expected to result in an Ashland Material Adverse Effect; and (ii) the representations and warranties set forth in Section 6.11(d) shall be deemed to be true and correct if the condition set forth in Section 10.01(g) is satisfied.
Representations and Warranties.
 
(b) The Ashland Parties shall have performed in all material respects the obligations required to be performed by them under the Transaction Agreements at or prior to the Closing Date, and Marathon shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of Ashland by the chief executive officer or the chief financial officer of Ashland to such effect.
Performance of Obligations of the Ashland Parties.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 11.01. This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Closing, whether before or after receipt of the Ashland Shareholder Approval:
Termination.
 
(a) by mutual written consent of Ashland and Marathon;
 
(b) by either Ashland or Marathon:
 
(i) if the Transactions are not consummated during the period ending on June 30, 2005 (such date, as extended in accordance with this Section 11.01(b)(i), the ""), unless the failure to consummate the Transactions is the result of a material breach of the Transaction Agreements by the party seeking to terminate this Agreement; , , that the passage of such period shall be tolled for any period (not to exceed three months):
Outside Date
provided
however
 
(A) during which any party shall be subject to a nonfinal order, decree, ruling or action of any court of competent jurisdiction or other Governmental Entity restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the Transactions;
 
(B) referred to in Section 9.03(d)(v); and
 
(C) referred to in the final proviso to Section 11.01(e); and
 
(D) beginning on June 30, 2005 if, on such date, all conditions set forth in Article X have been satisfied (or, to the extent permitted by Law, waived by the parties entitled to the benefit thereof) other than the condition set forth in Section 10.02(f) (and other than those conditions that by their nature are to be
 
satisfied on the Closing Date) unless, at any time during the three month period from June 30, 2005 through September 30, 2005, Ashland determines, after consultation with Marathon, that the condition set forth in Section 10.02(f) is not reasonably expected to be satisfied during such three month period;
 
, that in no event will the Outside Date be extended beyond September 30, 2005;
provided further however
 
(ii) if any Governmental Entity issues an order, decree, ruling or judgment or takes any other action permanently enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting any of the Transactions and such order, decree, ruling, judgment or other action becomes final and nonappealable;
 
(iii) if, upon a vote at the Ashland Shareholder Meeting (or any adjournment or postponement thereof), the Ashland Shareholder Approval is not obtained; or
 
(iv) if the party seeking to terminate this Agreement reasonably determines that the condition set forth in Section 10.01(f) has become incapable of satisfaction based on either: (A) amendments or modifications to Federal income Tax Law effective after the date of this Agreement, (B) a private letter ruling received by Ashland and Marathon from the IRS or (C) an official, written communication from the IRS regarding the matters set forth in Exhibit D;
 
(c) by Marathon, if any one or more of the Ashland Parties breach or fail to perform their representations, warranties or covenants contained in the Transaction Agreements, which breach or breaches or failure or failures to perform (i) would, individually or in the aggregate, give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in Section 10.03(a) or 10.03(b) and (ii) cannot be cured or, if curable, is not or are not cured within 60 days after written notice from Marathon ( that the Marathon Parties are not then in breach of their representations, warranties or covenants contained in the Transaction Agreements, which breaches would give rise to
provided
 
the failure of a condition set forth in Section 10.02(a) or 10.02(b));
 
(d) by Marathon, prior to the Cutoff Date, if:
 
(i) the Ashland Board withdraws or modifies, in a manner adverse to Marathon, or proposes publicly to withdraw or modify, in a manner adverse to Marathon, its approval or recommendation of the Transaction Agreements or the Transactions, fails to recommend to Ashland's shareholders that they give the Ashland Shareholder Approval or adopts, approves or recommends, or proposes publicly to adopt, approve or recommend, any Competing Ashland Proposal; or
 
(ii) the Ashland Board fails to reaffirm its recommendation to Ashland's shareholders that they give the Ashland Shareholder Approval within 10 business days of Marathon's written request to do so (which request may be made at any time prior to the Ashland Shareholders Meeting if a Competing Ashland Proposal has been publicly disclosed and not withdrawn);
 
(e) by Ashland, if any one or more of the Marathon Parties breach or fail to perform their representations, warranties or covenants contained in the Transaction Agreements which breach or breaches or failure or failures to perform (i) would, individually or in the aggregate, give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in Section 10.02(a) or 10.02(b) and (ii) cannot be cured or, if curable, is not or are not cured within 60 days after written notice from Ashland ( that the Ashland Parties are not then in breach of their representations, warranties or covenants contained in the Transaction Agreements, which breaches would give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in Section 10.03(a) or 10.03(b)); , , for purposes of this Section 11.01(e), the Marathon Parties shall be deemed not to have breached or failed to perform their covenant to cause the HoldCo Borrowing to be advanced to HoldCo in accordance with Section 1.03(a) for up to three months following the day on which the Closing Date would otherwise occur but for the failure of the Marathon Parties to cause the HoldCo Borrowing to be advanced to HoldCo if (A) such failure results from a Market MAC Event and (B) the
provided
provided
however
 
Marathon Parties use their reasonable best efforts to cause the HoldCo Borrowing to be advanced to HoldCo as soon as practicable thereafter, including, to the extent necessary, by providing guarantees or other credit support from the Marathon Parties (to the extent they have not otherwise agreed to do so), agreeing to modifications in the pricing, terms or structure of the HoldCo Borrowing (reasonably acceptable to Ashland) or arranging alternative Third Party Lenders; or
 
(f) by Ashland in accordance with Section 11.05(b); , , that Ashland shall have complied with all provisions thereof, including the notice provisions therein.
provided
however
 
SECTION 11.02. In the event of termination of this Agreement by either Ashland or Marathon as provided in Section 11.01, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and have no effect, without any liability or obligation on the part of any party hereto, other than Section 6.09 (Brokers), Section 7.09 (Brokers), the last sentence of Section 9.02 (Access to Information; Confidentiality), Section 9.04 (Fees and Expenses), this Section 11.02 and Article XIV (General Provisions), which provisions shall survive such termination, and except to the extent that such termination results from the material breach by a party of its representations, warranties or covenants set forth in the Transaction Agreements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event of termination of this Agreement by either Ashland or Marathon as provided in Section 11.01, none of the MAP Governing Documents shall be terminated, amended or modified as specified in the Transaction Agreements.
Effect of Termination.
 
SECTION 11.03. This Agreement may be amended by the parties at any time before or after receipt of the Ashland Shareholder Approval; , , that after receipt of the Ashland Shareholder Approval, there shall be made no amendment that by Law requires further approval by the shareholders of Ashland without the further approval of such shareholders. This Agreement may not be amended except by an instrument in writing signed on behalf of each of the parties hereto.
Amendment.
provided
however
 
SECTION 11.04. At any time prior to the Closing, Ashland or Marathon may, to the extent permitted by Law, (a) extend the time for the performance of any of the obligations or other acts of the
Extension; Waiver.
 
Marathon Parties (in the case of an extension granted by Ashland) or the Ashland Parties (in the case of an extension granted by Marathon), (b) waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties contained in the Transaction Agreements or in any document delivered pursuant to the Transaction Agreements, (c) waive compliance with any of the agreements of the Marathon Parties (in the case of a waiver granted by Ashland) or the Ashland Parties (in the case of a waiver granted by Marathon) or (d) waive any condition to the obligations of the Ashland Parties (in the case of a waiver granted by Ashland) or the Marathon Parties (in the case of a waiver granted by Marathon); , , that after receipt of the Ashland Shareholder Approval, there shall be made no extension or waiver that by Law requires further approval by the shareholders of Ashland without the further approval of such shareholders. Any agreement on the part of a party to any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed on behalf of such party.
provided
however
 
SECTION 11.05. (a) A termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 11.01, an amendment pursuant to Section 11.03 or an extension or waiver pursuant to Section 11.04 shall, in order to be effective, require action by the Ashland Board or the Marathon Board, as applicable, or the duly authorized designee of the Ashland Board or the Marathon Board, as applicable.
Procedure for Termination, Amendment, Extension or Waiver.
 
(b) Ashland may terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 11.01(f) only if, prior to the Cutoff Date, (i) the Ashland Board (or, if applicable, a majority of the disinterested members thereof) has received a Superior Proposal, (ii) in light of such Superior Proposal the Ashland Board shall have determined in good faith, after consultation with inside and outside counsel, that the failure to take such action would be reasonably likely to result in a breach of its fiduciary obligations under applicable Law, (iii) Ashland has notified Marathon in writing of the determination described in clause (ii) above, (iv) at least five business days have elapsed following receipt by Marathon of the notice referred to in clause (iii) above, (v) Ashland is in compliance in all material respects with Section 8.02 (No Solicitation) and (vi) Marathon is not at such time entitled to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 11.01(c). Written
 
confirmation by an executive officer of Marathon that expressly states that Marathon accepts the fees due and paid by Ashland under Section 9.04 shall constitute acceptance by Marathon of the validity of any termination of this Agreement under Section 11.01(f) and this Section 11.05(b); that, if such written confirmation is not provided within five business days after Marathon's receipt of payment of such fees, Marathon shall promptly refund such payment to Ashland without setoff. It is understood and agreed that a valid termination of this Agreement in compliance with the provisions of this Section 11.05(b) shall not constitute a breach of any provision of this Agreement.
provided
 
 
 
SECTION 12.01. (a) After the Closing, subject to and in accordance with all terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations contained in Section 9.8 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement among Marathon Company, Ashland and MAP dated as of December 12, 1997, as amended (the ""), MAP shall direct and control all Remediation Activities (as defined in the ATCA) undertaken in connection with any Ashland Environmental Loss associated with the Ashland Transferred Assets (as such terms are defined in the ATCA). The Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties shall cooperate in transferring the direction and control of such Remediation Activities to MAP. In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the ATCA, if the Closing occurs, New Ashland Inc. shall not have any liabilities or obligations:
Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Environmental Indemnity.
ATCA
 
(i) in excess of $50,000,000 in the aggregate for Ashland Environmental Losses under Section 9.2(c) of the ATCA incurred on or after January 1, 2004, except as otherwise provided in the last sentence of this Section 12.01(a);
 
(ii) arising out of the St. Paul Park QQQ Project to the extent incurred on or after January 1, 2003 other than the amounts to be paid pursuant to Section 9.09(b);
 
(iii) arising out of the Plains Settlement (as defined in Section 14.02) regardless of when incurred; or
 
(iv) under Section 9.8(f) of the ATCA.
 
From and after the Closing, MAP shall continue to treat and process any and all impacted groundwater associated with Remediation Activities undertaken in connection with any Ashland Environmental Loss (as defined in the ATCA) relating to the Catlettsburg, Canton and St. Paul Park refineries. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 12.01(a), such treatment and processing shall be at MAP's sole cost and expense. MAP shall have title to any and all hydrocarbons recovered during the treatment and processing of such impacted groundwater. Ashland shall retain all Ashland Excluded Liabilities (as defined in the ATCA) as well as all liabilities and obligations associated with the Scharbauer and Holt Ranch S-P project and the S-P projects described on Schedule 9.2(c) to the Ashland Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter (as defined in the ATCA).
 
(b) After the Closing, the Ashland Parties shall not have any liabilities or obligations for breaches of representations or warranties under Section 9.2(a) of the ATCA, including the Claims (as defined in the ATCA) identified in Section 12.01(b) of the Ashland Disclosure Letter, regardless of whether any Claim thereunder has been asserted on or prior to the Closing Date.
Other Indemnification.
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the ATCA or the other MAP Governing Documents, (i) MAP shall pursue the claims that MAP has asserted against the U.S. Department of Defense (the "") relating to alleged illegal price adjustments for jet fuel and other aviation fuel sold to the DOD by Ashland Petroleum Company from 1980 through 1990 (the "") and (ii) New Ashland Inc. shall have the right to participate in the pursuit of the DOD Claims and to employ counsel, at its own expense, separate from the counsel employed by MAP, it being understood that MAP shall control, in consultation with New Ashland Inc., the pursuit of the DOD Claims. MAP shall use its reasonable best efforts to prosecute the DOD Claims in accordance with this Section 12.01(c) until the DOD Claims
Department of Defense Claim.
DOD
DOD Claims
 
are finally determined pursuant to one or more final and nonappealable orders, decrees or judgments by a court of competent jurisdiction or by one or more settlement agreements approved by New Ashland Inc. (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed). If MAP shall receive any recovery under the DOD Claims, whether by judgment, settlement or otherwise, Marathon or Merger Sub shall promptly pay to New Ashland Inc. an amount equal to (A) 38% of such recovery minus (B) 38% of MAP's reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses in pursuing the DOD Claims. If and to the extent MAP's reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in the pursuit of the DOD Claims exceeds the ultimate recovery under the DOD Claims, New Ashland Inc. shall pay to Marathon an amount equal to 38% of such excess.
 
(d) (i) As of the Closing, except as expressly modified herein, the terms and conditions of Article X of the ATCA shall continue to apply with respect to all employees and former employees of MAP and its subsidiaries who were Ashland Transferred Employees (as defined in the ATCA) (the "").
Employee Benefit Matters.
Transferred MAP Employees
 
(ii) Without limiting the generality of Section 12.01(d)(i), from and after the Closing, MAP and its successors shall be solely responsible for all liabilities, obligations and commitments (including any costs and expenses) in connection with the provision of retiree medical and retiree life insurance benefits to the Transferred MAP Employees. Such benefits shall be determined taking into account the combined service of each Transferred MAP Employee with Ashland and its subsidiaries and MAP and its subsidiaries. For the avoidance of doubt, Ashland shall not have any liability, obligation or commitment in respect of retiree medical or retiree life insurance benefits for MAP employees, including Transferred MAP Employees, from and after the Closing.
 
(iii) Ashland shall remain solely responsible for any benefits under the Ashland & Affiliates Pension Plan (the "") and for any benefits under the Ashland Leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the "") accrued by each Transferred MAP Employee as of immediately prior to such employee's Employment
Ashland Pension Plan
Ashland LESOP
 
Transfer Date (as defined in the ATCA). Solely for purposes of qualifying for distributions and early retirement benefits pursuant to the Ashland Pension Plan and the Ashland LESOP, Ashland will continue to treat the Transferred MAP Employees as employed by an affiliated employer for so long as they remain actively employed by MAP or its successors or their affiliates.
 
(iv) In accordance with the terms of the Ashland Employee Savings Plan, as of the Closing, Ashland agrees to facilitate the ability of each Transferred MAP Employee who is currently employed by MAP and its subsidiaries immediately prior to the Closing to effect a "direct rollover" (within the meaning of Section 401(a)(31) of the Code) of his or her account balances under the Ashland Employee Savings Plan if such rollover is elected in accordance with applicable Law by such Transferred MAP Employee. Marathon agrees to cause the Marathon Thrift Plan to accept a "direct rollover" to the Marathon Thrift Plan of such Transferred MAP Employees' account balances (including promissory notes evidencing all outstanding loans) under the Ashland Employee Savings Plan.
 
(v) Except as provided in this Section 12.01(d), Ashland shall remain solely responsible for any individual contractual obligations with any Transferred MAP Employees (including any obligations to such employees pursuant to the Ashland Stock Plans, the Ashland Salary Continuation Plan and any other severance, change in control or incentive compensation plan or arrangement) to the extent that Ashland was liable for such obligations immediately prior to the Closing.
 
(vi) Subject to applicable Law, Ashland shall reasonably cooperate in providing MAP with complete data for any Transferred MAP Employees.
 
(vii) The parties agree that, in the event that MAP and its subsidiaries make any contributions to, or payments in respect of, any pension plans, post-retirement health and life
 
insurance plans or any other post-employment benefit arrangements, other than the Permitted Payments (as defined below), then MAP shall make a special non-pro rata distribution to Ashland in an amount equal to 38% of the amount by which any such contributions or payments exceed the Permitted Payments. Any such distribution to Ashland pursuant to this Section 12.01(d)(vii) shall be effected through an increase in the MAP Partial Redemption Amount or through such other means as Ashland and MAP may mutually agree. For purposes of this Section 12.01(d)(vii), "" means:
Permitted Payments
 
(A) any benefit payments made in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice to beneficiaries of such pension plans, post-retirement health and life insurance plans or post-employment benefit arrangements;
 
(B) contributions to the MAP Retirement Plan (the "") in an amount not in excess of the minimum amount necessary to avoid the required filing of information with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (") pursuant to Section 4010 of ERISA with respect to the 2003 information year, which filing would otherwise be due on April 15, 2004 (which amounts shall be contributed at the latest possible time to avoid such required filing);
MAP Qualified Pension Plan
PBGC"
 
(C) in the case of the MAP Qualified Pension Plan (1) if the pension funding relief (including relief related to the determination of the PBGC variable-rate premium (within the meaning of 29 C.F.R. 4006.3)) contemplated by H.R. 3108 (or any substantially similar legislation) (the "") is enacted into law on or prior to September 15, 2004, contributions in calendar year 2004 in an amount not in excess of the minimum amount necessary to avoid payment of the variable-rate premium for such plan for the 2004 plan year (taking into account any amounts
Pension Funding Relief
 
previously contributed to the MAP Qualified Pension Plan, including pursuant to the immediately preceding clause (B) and clause (C)(3) below), provided that such contributions shall not be made before the latest possible time that such contributions may be made and still be taken into account in determining whether any variable-rate premium is due for the 2004 plan year, using the method that produces the lowest variable-rate premium and reflects any exemptions and special rules under 29 C.F.R. 4006.5 and the highest discount rate permitted for the calculation of such variable-rate premium and such other actuarial assumptions as set forth in 29 C.F.R. 4006 or otherwise required under PBGC regulations and (2) if the Pension Funding Relief is enacted into law on or prior to September 15, 2005, contributions in calendar year 2005 in an amount not in excess of the minimum amount necessary to avoid payment of the variable-rate premium for such plan for the 2005 plan year (taking into account any amounts previously contributed to the MAP Qualified Pension Plan, including pursuant to the immediately preceding clauses (B) and (C)(1) and clause (C)(3) below), provided that such contributions shall not be made before the latest possible time that such contributions may be made and still be taken into account in determining whether any variable-rate premium is due for the 2005 plan year, using the method that produces the lowest variable-rate premium and reflects any exemptions and special rules under 29 C.F.R. 4006.5 and the highest discount rate permitted for the calculation of such variable-rate premium and such other actuarial assumptions as set forth in 29 C.F.R. 4006 or otherwise required under PBGC regulations and (3) until the Pension Funding Relief is enacted into law, contributions (made in amounts and at such times consistent with past practice) not in
 
excess of $120,000,000 in each of calendar year 2004 and 2005; and
 
(D) in the case of the MAP Qualified Pension Plan, contributions not in excess of the minimum additional amounts required (which amounts shall be contributed at the latest possible time) for such plan to satisfy the minimum funding requirements of Section 412 of the Code;
 
it being understood that any amounts previously contributed to the MAP Qualified Pension Plan (including under the immediately preceding clause (B), (C) (1)-(3) or (D)) shall be taken into account in determining any subsequent amounts permitted to be contributed under the immediately preceding clause (B), (C)(1)-(3) or (D) so as to avoid duplication of contributions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may Permitted Payments under the immediately preceding clauses (B), (C)(1)-(3) and (D) in the aggregate exceed, for each of calendar years 2004 and 2005, an amount (the "") equal to the greater of (x) the minimum contributions required to be paid in such year to satisfy the minimum funding requirements of Section 412 of the Code (based on the required due dates for such contributions) and (y) $120,000,000. With respect to the 2005 calendar year, the Maximum Annual Permitted Payment shall be pro-rated by multiplying the Maximum Annual Permitted Payment by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months elapsed in such year through and including the Closing Date, and the denominator of which is 12. At least 30 days in advance of any Permitted Payment described under clauses (B), (C)(1)-(3) or (D) of the definition thereof to be contributed by MAP or its subsidiaries to the MAP Qualified Pension Plan, MAP and/or its actuary shall provide Ashland with a good-faith estimate of such Permitted Payment, and with all information reasonably requested by Ashland (and any actuary designated by Ashland) to review and independently verify such Permitted Payment.
Maximum Annual Permitted Payment
 
(e) After the Closing, the Ashland Parties and their affiliates shall not have any liabilities or obligations under Section 7.2(h) (Guarantees) or 7.2(l) (Marine Preservation Association) of the ATCA. For the avoidance of doubt, the other liabilities and obligations of the Ashland Parties and their affiliates, and the liabilities and obligations of Marathon Company, MAP and MAP's subsidiaries, under the ATCA, including those under Article IX thereof, shall continue in full force and effect after the Closing, except as provided in the Transaction Agreements. After the Closing, Ashland shall not have any liabilities or obligations under the Parent Company Guarantee dated May 28, 2003 relating to a Crude Oil Sales Agreement with Saudi Arabian Oil Company effective June 1, 2003, as amended; , , that nothing in the Transaction Agreements or the Ancillary Agreements shall prohibit Marathon from continuing to be a guarantor thereunder.
Other Provisions.
provided
however
 
SECTION 12.02. (a) With respect to the Goldman Sachs Master Sublease Agreement dated as of January 1, 1998, between Ashland Oil, Inc. and Speedway SuperAmerica LLC and the Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation Master Subcharter Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1998, between Ashland and MAP (each, a ""), Ashland shall use its reasonable best efforts to (i) purchase or otherwise acquire the property then leased under the Original Lease (as defined in the MAP LLC Agreement) and subleased to MAP pursuant to each Designated Sublease (the "") on or prior to the Closing and (ii) upon such purchase or other acquisition, contribute its interest in such Leased Property to MAP or one of its subsidiaries at no cost to MAP or such subsidiary on or prior to the Closing; , , that (A) with respect to any such Original Lease, Ashland shall not be obligated to pay more than a reasonable amount as consideration to, or make more than a reasonable financial accommodation in favor of, or commence litigation against, any person (including in order to obtain any agreement, consent or cooperation of or from such person) in order to purchase or otherwise acquire the related Leased Property as contemplated by, and in accordance with, this Section 12.02(a) and (B) any additional cost associated with exercising an option under any such Original Lease to purchase the related Leased Property as described above shall be deemed not to
Designated Subleases.
Designated Sublease
Leased Property
provided
however
 
constitute an obligation to pay more than a reasonable amount.
 
(b) In the event that Ashland is unable to purchase or otherwise acquire the Leased Property related to a Designated Sublease in accordance with Section 12.02(a), then the Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties shall use their reasonable best efforts (including entering into customary documentation reasonably acceptable in form and substance to the Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties) to cause (i) all Ashland's existing rights under such Original Lease and, as applicable, either the SuperAmerica Transaction Documents (as defined below) or Pitney Bowes Transaction Documents (as defined below), to be assigned to MAP, effective as of the Closing Date, (ii) MAP to assume, effective as of the Closing Date, all liabilities and obligations required to be performed or discharged after the Closing under such Original Lease (including the obligation to pay rent and any additional cost associated with exercising an option under such Original Lease to purchase the related Leased Property) and, as applicable, either the SuperAmerica Transaction Documents or Pitney Bowes Transaction Documents and (iii) the Ashland Parties and their affiliates to be released, effective as of the Closing Date, from all liabilities and obligations required to be performed or discharged after the Closing under such Original Lease and, as applicable, either the SuperAmerica Transaction Documents or Pitney Bowes Transaction Documents. If the Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties are able to effect the assignment, assumption and release in accordance with this Section 12.02(b) in connection with an Original Lease related to a Designated Sublease, on the Closing Date, New Ashland Inc. shall pay to MAP cash, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a MAP bank account designated in writing by MAP at least two business days prior to the Closing Date, in an amount equal to the present value, discounted at a rate equal to the yield to average life of Marathon public debt having an average life similar to the remaining average life of such Original Lease, and based on such other assumptions as the parties shall reasonably agree upon, of the lowest cost alternative of (x) the payment of all rent required to be paid thereafter under such Original Lease (including for all renewal periods available under the terms of such Original Lease) or (y) the payment of all rent required to be paid thereafter under such Original Lease until the date of any
 
available option under such Original Lease to purchase the related Leased Property and the cost associated with exercising any such option. Ashland shall reimburse Marathon for any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Marathon relating to such assignment, assumption and release; , , that, with respect to any Original Lease, Ashland shall not be obligated to pay more than a reasonable amount as consideration to, or make more than a reasonable financial accommodation in favor of, or commence litigation against, any person (including in order to obtain any agreement, consent or cooperation of or from such person) in order to effect the assignment, assumption, and release contemplated by, and in accordance with, this Section 12.02(b) with respect to such Original Lease and, as applicable, either the SuperAmerica Transaction Documents or Pitney Bowes Transaction Documents. If the Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties are able to effect the assignment, assumption and release in accordance with this Section 12.02(b) with respect to any Original Lease related to a Designated Sublease, such Designated Sublease shall thereupon terminate and none of the Ashland Parties or the Marathon Parties shall have any liabilities or obligations thereunder other than liabilities and obligations required to be performed or discharged before the Closing.
provided
however
 
(c) In the event that, on or prior to the Closing, (x) Ashland is unable to purchase and contribute the Leased Property related to a Designated Sublease as contemplated by, and in accordance with, Section 12.02(a), and (y) the Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties are unable to effect the assignment, assumption and release as contemplated by, and in accordance with, Section 12.02(b) with respect to such Original Lease and, as applicable, either the SuperAmerica Transaction Documents or Pitney Bowes Transaction Documents, then (i) MAP shall be entitled to continue to sublease the Leased Property pursuant to such Designated Sublease until the term of such Original Lease expires, (ii) Ashland shall use its reasonable best efforts to purchase or otherwise acquire the related Leased Property under such Original Lease and convey title to such Leased Property to MAP or one of its subsidiaries; , , that (A) with respect to any such Original Lease, Ashland shall not be obligated to pay more than a reasonable amount as consideration therefor to, or make more than a reasonable financial accommodation in favor of, or commence litigation against, any person
provided
however
 
(including in order to obtain any agreement, consent or cooperation of or from such person) in order to purchase or otherwise acquire the related Leased Property and (B) any additional cost associated with exercising an option under any Original Lease to purchase related Leased Property shall be deemed not to constitute an obligation to pay more than a reasonable amount and (iii) if Ashland subsequently acquires such Leased Property, Ashland shall convey title to such Leased Property to MAP or one of its subsidiaries at no cost (including transfer Tax expense) to MAP or such subsidiary at such time.
 
(d) For purposes of this Agreement:
 
"" means the following documents: (i) Participation Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1990, among Ford Motor Credit Company, as owner participant; State Street Bank and Trust Company of Connecticut, National Association, as trust company and as owner trustee; Ashland Oil, Inc. (now known as "Ashland Inc."), as lessee; SuperAmerica Group, Inc., as seller; First Colony Life Insurance Company, as initial lender; and SuperAsh Remainderman Limited Partnership, as remainderman; (ii) Three Party Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1990, among SuperAsh Remainderman Limited Partnership, as remainderman; Ashland Oil, Inc., as lessee; and State Street Bank and Trust Company of Connecticut, National Association, as lessor; (iii) Tax Indemnification Agreement, dated December 31, 1990, among Ford Motor Credit Company, State Street Bank and Trust Company of Connecticut, National Association and Ashland Oil, Inc.; (iv) Guarantee, dated as of December 31, 1990, by State Street Bank and Trust Company to Ford Motor Credit Company, Ashland Oil, Inc., SuperAmerica Group, Inc., First Colony Life Insurance Company and SuperAsh Remainderman Limited Partnership; (v) Guaranty of Ford Motor Credit Company, dated as of September 21, 1996, given by Ford Motor Credit Company to State Street Bank and Trust Company of Connecticut, National Association, Ashland Oil, Inc., SuperAmerica Group, Inc., First Colony Life Insurance Company, and SuperAsh Remainderman Limited Partnership; and (vi) Consent to the First Amendment of SuperAsh Remainderman Limited Partnership Agreement of Limited Partnership.
SuperAmerica Transaction Documents
 
" means the following documents: (i) Financing Agreement, among Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation, PNC Leasing Corp., Ashland, and
Pitney Bowes Transaction Documents"
 
PNC Bank, Kentucky, Inc., dated as of January 19, 1996; (ii) Assignment of Builder Contracts between Ashland, Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation and PNC Leasing Corp., Kentucky, dated January 19, 1996; (iii) Letter Agreement, dated December 31, 1996, among Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation, Ashland, First Security Bank, National Association, and Prudential Securities Incorporated acknowledging the Assignment of Builder Contracts; (iv) Letter Agreement, dated January 16, 1997, between Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation and Ashland acknowledging the understanding of certain definitions in connection with Schedule A attached thereto; (v) Letter Agreement, dated January 21, 1997, among Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation, Ashland, First Security Bank, National Association, and Prudential Securities Incorporated acknowledging the Charter Assignment; (vi) Letter Agreement, dated June 19, 1997, among Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation, Ashland, First Security Bank, National Association, and Prudential Securities Incorporated acknowledging the Assignment of Builder Contracts; (vii) Letter Agreement, dated June 19, 1997, between Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation and Ashland acknowledging the understanding of certain definitions in connection with Schedule A attached thereto; (viii) Letter Agreement, dated June 19, 1997, among Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation, Ashland, First Security Bank, National Association, and Prudential Securities Incorporated acknowledging the Charter Assignment; (ix) Amendment to Charter Supplement, dated as of June 19, 1997, between Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation and Ashland; (x) First Amendment to Charter Agreement dated as of October 28, 1997, between Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation and Ashland; (xi) First Amendment to Charter Supplements Nos. 1-16, dated as of October 28, 1997, between Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation and Ashland; (xii) Letter Agreement, dated November 24, 1997, between Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation and Ashland, regarding ownership of specified barges; (xiii) Termination of Charter Supplements Nos. 16-21, dated as of December 2, 1997, between Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation and Ashland; (xiv) Letter, dated December 2, 1997, from Ashland to Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation acknowledging the sale of specified vessels from Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation to Ashland; (xv) Letter, dated December 9, 1997, from Ashland to Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation notifying Pitney Bowes of the intention to form a joint venture and subcharter barges and requesting Pitney Bowes's consent to the subcharter; (xvi) Consent Letter, dated December 31, 1997, among Pitney Bowes Credit
 
Corporation, Ashland, and MAP, regarding Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation's consent to the Master Subcharter Agreement.
 
SECTION 12.03. After the Closing, (i) except as contemplated by the Tax Matters Agreement, New Ashland Inc. shall not have any liabilities or obligations to any of the Marathon Parties or any of their affiliates under the MAP LLC Agreement other than with respect to any breach or default under the MAP LLC Agreement by Ashland that occurred prior to the Closing and (ii) except as contemplated by Section 12.06(b) or the Tax Matters Agreement, neither Marathon Company nor MAP shall have any liabilities or obligations to any of the Ashland Parties or any of their affiliates under the MAP LLC Agreement other than with respect to any breach or default thereunder by Marathon Company or any of its affiliates that occurred prior to the Closing.
The MAP LLC Agreement.
 
SECTION 12.04. Unless and until this Agreement is terminated in accordance with the provisions of Article XI, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement dated as of January 1, 1998 among Marathon Company, Marathon (as successor and assign of USX Corporation), Ashland and MAP, as amended (the ""), Ashland shall not have the right to exercise the Ashland Put Right and Marathon Company shall not have the right to exercise the Marathon Call Right (as such terms are defined in the Put/Call Agreement). After the Closing, except as expressly contemplated by this Agreement or any of the other Transaction Agreements, (i) New Ashland Inc. shall not have any liabilities or obligations under the Put/Call Agreement other than (A) with respect to any breach or default thereunder by Ashland that occurred prior to the Closing and (B) Ashland's obligations under Section 12.02 thereof (which shall survive for six months after the Closing Date); and (ii) none of the Marathon Parties shall have any liabilities or obligations under the Put/Call Agreement other than (A) with respect to any breach or default thereunder by Marathon, Marathon Company or MAP that occurred prior to the Closing, (B) the obligations of Marathon and Marathon Company under Section 12.01 thereof (which shall survive for six months after the Closing Date) and (iii) the obligations of Marathon, Marathon Company and MAP under Section 13.03 thereof (which shall survive pursuant to the terms of the
The Put/Call Agreement.
Put/Call Agreement
 
Put/Call Agreement). For the avoidance of doubt, the Ashland Parties and the Marathon Parties shall not have any obligations under Article XIV of the Put/Call Agreement after the Closing Date. The parties hereto agree that the Price Reduction (as defined in Amendment No. 1 to the Put/Call Agreement) shall not apply to the Transactions.
 
SECTION 12.05. After the Closing, the Insurance Indemnity Agreement among Marathon Company, Ashland, Marathon (as successor and assign of USX Corporation) and MAP, dated as of January 1, 1998, shall terminate and no party to any such agreement shall have any rights or obligations thereunder, other than those rights or obligations arising prior to the Closing.
Ancillary Agreements.
 
SECTION 12.06. (a) Except as the same may have been amended prior to the date of this Agreement and except as expressly amended or assigned pursuant to the Transaction Agreements or the Ancillary Agreements, the MAP Governing Documents, to the extent the same are in existence as of the date of this Agreement, shall continue in full force and effect. For the avoidance of doubt, after the Closing, New Ashland Inc. shall be deemed to be a successor of Ashland for purposes of the ATCA and the Transaction Documents (as defined in the ATCA).
Other Provisions of the MAP Governing Documents.
 
(b) The obligations of MAP under Article XI (Liability, Exculpation and Indemnification) of the MAP LLC Agreement as in effect on the date of this Agreement shall continue in effect and shall not be amended, repealed or otherwise modified after the Closing in any manner that would adversely affect the rights thereunder of any Covered Person (as defined in the MAP LLC Agreement) in respect of acts or omissions occurring at or prior to the Closing and, in the case of such obligations to all Representatives (as defined in the MAP LLC Agreement) who have been designated from time to time prior to the Closing Date by Ashland to the Board of Managers (as defined in the MAP LLC Agreement) of MAP, shall be guaranteed by Marathon. This Section 12.06(b) shall survive the Closing, is intended to benefit each Covered Person and shall be enforceable by the Covered Persons and their successors.
 
SECTION 12.07. After the Closing, upon reasonable written notice, the Marathon Parties shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Ashland Parties and their Representatives, during normal
Post-Closing Access.
 
business hours, reasonable access to the personnel, properties, books, contracts, commitments, records and other information and assistance relating to MAP for the purpose of auditing compliance by MAP with Section 12.01(a) and for such other purposes as the Ashland Parties may reasonably request.
 
 
 
SECTION 13.01. (a) Subject to the limitations set forth in this Article XIII, from and after the Closing, New Ashland Inc. shall defend and indemnify each of the Marathon Parties and their respective affiliates and each of their respective Representatives against, and hold them harmless from, any and all claims, demands, suits, actions, causes of action, investigations, losses, damages, liabilities, obligations, penalties, fines, costs and expenses (including costs of litigation and reasonable attorneys' and experts' fees and expenses, but excluding a party's indirect corporate and administrative overhead costs) ("") to the extent resulting from, arising out of or relating to, directly or indirectly:
Indemnification by New Ashland Inc.
Losses
 
(i) any breach of any representation or warranty of any of the Ashland Parties contained in this Agreement, the Maleic Agreement, the VIOC Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (other than the representations and warranties contained in: the first sentence of Section 6.01 of this Agreement; Sections 6.03, 6.04, 6.05, 6.08 and 6.11 of this Agreement; Sections 3.03(b), 3.09, 3.11(b) and 3.12 of the Maleic Agreement; and Sections 3.03(b), 3.09, 3.11(b) and 3.12 of the VIOC Agreement);
 
(ii) any breach or nonfulfillment of any covenant of any of the Ashland Parties contained in this Agreement, the Maleic Agreement, the VIOC Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, in each case to the extent it relates to performance prior to the Closing;
 
(iii) any breach of any representation or warranty of any of the Ashland Parties contained in (A) Section 6.08 of this Agreement or (B) Section 3.11(b) of the Maleic Agreement or Section 3.11(b) of the VIOC Agreement;
 
(iv) any breach of any representation or warranty of any of the Ashland Parties contained in (A) Section 6.03 (except the last sentence of 6.03(e)) of this Agreement, (B) Section 3.09 or 3.12 of the Maleic Agreement or Section 3.09 or 3.12 of the VIOC Agreement or (C) Section 6.05 of this Agreement;
 
(v) any breach of any representation or warranty of any of the Ashland Parties contained in (A) the first sentence of Section 6.01 of this Agreement, Section 3.03(b) of the Maleic Agreement or Section 3.03(b) of the VIOC Agreement or (B) Section 6.04 or 6.11 of this Agreement;
 
(vi) (A) any breach of any representation or warranty of any of the Ashland Parties contained in the last sentence of Section 6.03(e) of this Agreement, (B) any breach or nonfulfillment of any covenant of any of the Ashland Parties (other than HoldCo) contained in this Agreement (other than Section 8.03 of this Agreement), the Maleic Agreement, the VIOC Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, in each case to the extent it relates to performance after the Closing (including New Ashland's obligations to pay Reorganization Merger Consideration or amounts in respect of Dissenters' Shares) or (C) any breach or nonfulfillment of any covenant of any of the Ashland Parties contained in Section 8.03 of this Agreement;
 
(vii) any liabilities or obligations (contingent or otherwise) of any of the Ashland Parties (or any of their respective subsidiaries) that are not expressly assumed by one or more of the Marathon Parties pursuant to this Agreement, the Maleic Agreement, the VIOC Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (including any asbestos-related liabilities or obligations of the Ashland Parties, or any of their respective subsidiaries,
 
associated with the operations of Riley Stoker Corporation);
 
(viii) any liabilities or obligations of any of the Ashland Parties to Transferred MAP Employees, Transferred Maleic Business Employees (as defined in the Maleic Agreement) or Transferred VIOC Centers Employees (as defined in the VIOC Agreement) under any pension, retirement or other employee benefit plan or arrangement established or participated in by any Ashland Party or any of its subsidiaries that is not expressly assumed by one or more Marathon Parties pursuant to this Agreement, the Maleic Agreement, the VIOC Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement;
 
(ix) any failure by any of the Ashland Parties to comply with the St. Paul Park Judgment and Plea Agreement, other than the obligations expressly assumed by the Marathon Parties in Section 9.09 of this Agreement; or
 
(x) any liabilities and obligations (contingent or otherwise) of any of the Marathon Parties (or any of their respective subsidiaries) that are expressly assumed by one or more Ashland Parties pursuant to this Agreement, the Maleic Agreement, the VIOC Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement.
 
(b) New Ashland Inc. shall not be required to indemnify any person, and shall not have any liability:
 
(i) under clauses (i) and (ii) of Section 13.01(a), unless a claim therefor is asserted in writing within three years after the Closing Date, failing which such claim shall be waived and extinguished;
 
(ii) under clause (iii) of Section 13.01(a), unless a claim therefor is asserted in writing within five years after the Closing Date, failing which such claim shall be waived and extinguished;
 
(iii) under clause (iv) of Section 13.01(a), unless a claim therefor is asserted in writing within six years after the Closing Date, failing which such claim shall be waived and extinguished;
 
(iv) under clause (v) of Section 13.01(a), unless a claim therefor is asserted in writing within ten years after the Closing Date, failing which such claim shall be waived and extinguished;
 
(v) under clause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) or (vi) of Section 13.01(a) for any punitive or exemplary damages (other than punitive or exemplary damages asserted by any person who is not a Marathon Party, or an affiliate or a Representative of a Marathon Party, in a Third Party Claim (as defined in Section 13.04));
 
(vi) under clause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v)(A) or (vi)(B) of Section 13.01(a) for any indirect consequential or special damages (other than indirect consequential or special damages asserted by any person who is not a Marathon Party, or an affiliate or a Representative of a Marathon Party, in a Third Party Claim);
 
(vii) under clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) of Section 13.01(a) unless the aggregate of all Losses for which the Ashland Parties would, but for this clause (vii), be liable exceeds on a cumulative basis an amount equal to $2,000,000, and then only to the extent of any such excess;
 
(viii) under clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi)(A) of Section 13.01(a) for any individual items where the Loss or alleged Loss relating thereto is less than $100,000 and such items shall not be aggregated for purposes of clause (vii) of this Section 13.01(b);
 
(ix) under clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) of Section 13.01(a) with respect to breaches of representations, warranties or covenants referred to therein that are contained in (A) the Maleic Agreement to the extent they result in indemnification payments hereunder in excess of $59,785,000 in the aggregate or (B) the VIOC Agreement to the extent they result in
 
 
(x) under clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi)(A) of Section 13.01(a) in the aggregate in excess of the amount equal to the sum of (A) the MAP Partial Redemption Amount, (B) the Capital Contribution, (C) $315,000,000 and (D) all post-Closing recoveries by Ashland of distributions or profits from MAP with respect to any period after the Closing Date; and
 
(xi) under clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv)(A) of Section 13.01(a) for breaches of representations, warranties or covenants referred to therein that are contained in this Agreement to the extent they result in indemnification payments hereunder in excess of $400,000,000 in the aggregate;
 
, , that in determining the scope of New Ashland Inc.'s indemnification obligations under this Section 13.01(a), any qualification as to materiality or references to Ashland Material Adverse Effect, Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the Maleic Agreement) or VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the VIOC Agreement) in any of the representations or warranties referred to in Section 13.01(a) shall be disregarded (it being understood that such qualifications as to materiality or Ashland Material Adverse Effect, Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect or VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect shall apply for purposes of determining whether there has been a breach in the first place). Solely for purposes of this Article XIII, any Loss to the extent arising out of any event or occurrence on or prior to, or circumstance existing on or prior to, the Closing Date (and not to the extent arising out of any event, occurrence or circumstance existing after the Closing Date, other than the discovery of a pre-closing condition or the making or commencement of any claim, demand, suit, action, proceeding or investigation after the Closing Date to the extent relating to any event, occurrence or circumstance existing on or prior to the Closing Date) shall be considered in determining whether there shall have occurred (or there was reasonably expected to occur) an Ashland Material Adverse Effect, a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect or a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect, as applicable, as of the
provided
however
 
Closing Date. The parties acknowledge that (x) the indemnification obligations referred to in clauses (vi) through (x) of Section 13.01(a) shall not be subject to any time limitations and (y) none of the indemnification obligations referred to in clauses (vi)(B), (vi)(C), or any of clauses (vii) through (x) of Section 13.01(a) shall be subject to any dollar limitations. The preceding sentence is not intended to eliminate or amend any limitations on the indemnification obligations of any Ashland Party under the ATCA or any other agreement that is not a Transaction Agreement or an Ancillary Agreement.
 
(c) Except as otherwise expressly contemplated or provided in the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements, the Ashland Parties make no representations or warranties of any kind, either express or implied. Except as otherwise contemplated or provided in the Tax Matters Agreement, any of the other Transaction Agreements or any of the Ancillary Agreements, the Marathon Parties acknowledge that their sole and exclusive remedy after the Closing with respect to any and all claims (other than (i) claims arising from covenants to the extent such covenants are to be performed after the Closing and (ii) claims of fraud) relating to the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements and the Transactions shall be pursuant to the indemnification provisions set forth in this Article XIII. In furtherance of the foregoing, except as otherwise contemplated or provided in the Tax Matters Agreement, any of the other Transaction Agreements or any of the Ancillary Agreements, the Marathon Parties hereby waive, from and after the Closing, any and all rights, claims and causes of action under any applicable Law (other than claims of, or causes of action arising from, (i) covenants to the extent such covenants are to be performed after the Closing and (ii) fraud) they may have against the Ashland Parties arising under or based upon the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements and the Transactions (except pursuant to the indemnification provisions set forth in this Section 13.01). The Marathon Parties shall take reasonable actions to mitigate Losses for which indemnification may be sought under this Section 13.01, as and to the extent a party is required to mitigate damages for breach of contract under the Laws of the State of New York.
 
SECTION 13.02. (a) Subject to the limitations set forth in this
Indemnification by Marathon.
 
Article XIII, from and after the Closing, Marathon shall defend and indemnify each of the Ashland Parties and their respective affiliates and each of their respective Representatives against, and hold them harmless from, any Losses to the extent resulting from, arising out of or relating to, directly or indirectly:
 
(i) any breach of any representation or warranty of any of the Marathon Parties contained in this Agreement, the Maleic Agreement, the VIOC Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (other than the representations and warranties contained in the first sentence of Section 7.01 of this Agreement and in Sections 7.03, 7.04, 7.05, 7.08 and 7.11 of this Agreement);
 
(ii) any breach or nonfulfillment of any covenant of any of the Marathon Parties contained in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, in each case to the extent it relates to performance prior to the Closing;
 
(iii) any breach of any representation or warranty of any of the Marathon Parties contained in Section 7.08 of this Agreement;
 
(iv) any breach of any representation or warranty of any of the Marathon Parties contained in (A) Section 7.03 of this Agreement or (B) Section 7.05 of this Agreement;
 
(v) any breach of any representation or warranty of any of the Marathon Parties contained in (A) the first sentence of Section 7.01 of this Agreement or (B) Section 7.04 or 7.11 of this Agreement;
 
(vi) any breach or nonfulfillment of any covenant of any of the Marathon Parties contained in this Agreement, the Maleic Agreement, the VIOC Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, in each case to the extent it relates to performance after the Closing (including Marathon's obligations to issue and deposit with the Exchange Agent the number of shares of Marathon Common Stock specified in Section 5.01(a)(ii) and to provide the cash necessary to pay any
 
dividends or distributions in accordance with Section 5.01(c)(ii));
 
(vii) any liabilities or obligations (contingent or otherwise) of any of the Ashland Parties (or any of their respective subsidiaries) that are expressly assumed by one or more of the Marathon Parties pursuant to this Agreement, the Maleic Agreement, the VIOC Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, including any such liabilities and obligations for which Ashland would otherwise have been liable under the ATCA but for the application of Section 12.01 (Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement);
 
(viii) any liabilities or obligations of any of the Ashland Parties to Transferred MAP Employees, Transferred Maleic Business Employees or Transferred VIOC Centers Employees under any pension, retirement or other employee benefit plan or arrangement established or participated in by any Ashland Party or any of its subsidiaries that is expressly assumed by one or more Marathon Parties pursuant to this Agreement, the Maleic Agreement, the VIOC Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, including any such liabilities and obligations for which Ashland would otherwise have been liable under the ATCA but for the application of Section 12.01 (Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement);
 
(ix) any failure by any of the Marathon Parties to comply with Section 9.09 of this Agreement; or
 
(x) any liabilities and obligations (contingent or otherwise) of any of the Marathon Parties (or any of their respective subsidiaries) that are not expressly assumed by one or more Ashland Parties pursuant to this Agreement, the Maleic Agreement, the VIOC Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement.
 
(b) Marathon shall not be required to indemnify any person, and shall not have any liability:
 
(i) under clauses (i) and (ii) of Section 13.02(a), unless a claim therefor is
 
 
(ii) under clause (iii) of Section 13.02(a), unless a claim therefor is asserted in writing within five years after the Closing Date, failing which such claim shall be waived and extinguished;
 
(iii) under clause (iv) of Section 13.02(a), unless a claim therefor is asserted in writing within six years after the Closing Date, failing which such claim shall be waived and extinguished;
 
(iv) under clause (v) of Section 13.02(a), unless a claim therefor is asserted in writing within ten years after the Closing Date, failing which such claim shall be waived and extinguished;
 
(v) under clause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) or (vi) of Section 13.02(a) for any punitive or exemplary damages (other than punitive or exemplary damages asserted by any person who is not an Ashland Party, or an affiliate or a Representative of an Ashland Party, in a Third Party Claim);
 
(vi) under clause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v)(A) or (vi) of Section 13.02(a) for any indirect consequential or special damages (other than indirect consequential or special damages asserted by any person who is not an Ashland Party, or an affiliate or a Representative of an Ashland Party, in a Third Party Claim);
 
(vii) under clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) of Section 13.02(a) unless the aggregate of all Losses for which the Marathon Parties would, but for this clause (vi), be liable exceeds on a cumulative basis an amount equal to $2,000,000, and then only to the extent of any such excess;
 
(viii) under clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) of Section 13.02(a) for any individual items where the Loss or alleged Loss relating
 
thereto is less than $100,000 and such items shall not be aggregated for purposes of clause (vii) of this Section 13.02(b);
 
(ix) under clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) of Section 13.02(a) in the aggregate in excess of the amount equal to the sum of (A) the MAP Partial Redemption Amount, (B) the Capital Contribution and (C) $315,000,000; and
 
(x) under clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv)(A) of Section 13.02(a) for breaches of representations, warranties or covenants referred to therein that are contained in this Agreement to the extent they result in indemnification payments hereunder in excess of $400,000,000 in the aggregate;
 
, , that in determining the scope of Marathon's indemnification obligations under this Section 13.02(a), any qualification as to materiality or references to Marathon Material Adverse Effect in any of the representations or warranties referred to in Section 13.02(a) shall be disregarded (it being understood that such qualifications as to materiality or Marathon Material Adverse Effect shall apply for purposes of determining whether there has been a breach in the first place). Solely for purposes of this Article XIII, any Loss to the extent arising out of any event or occurrence on or prior to, or circumstance existing on or prior to, the Closing Date (and not to the extent arising out of any event, occurrence or circumstance existing after the Closing Date, other than the discovery of a pre-closing condition or the making or commencement of any claim, demand, suit, action, proceeding or investigation after the Closing Date to the extent relating to any event, occurrence or circumstance existing on or prior to the Closing Date) shall be considered in determining whether there shall have occurred (or there was reasonably expected to occur) a Marathon Material Adverse Effect as of the Closing Date. The parties acknowledge that (x) the indemnification obligations referred to in clauses (vi) through (x) of Section 13.02(a) shall not be subject to any time limitations and (y) none of the indemnification obligations referred to in clauses (vi) through (x) of Section 13.02(a) shall be subject to any dollar limitations. The preceding sentence is not intended to eliminate or amend any limitations on the indemnification
provided
however
 
obligations of any Marathon Party under the ATCA or any other agreement that is not a Transaction Agreement or an Ancillary Agreement.
 
(c) Except as otherwise expressly contemplated or provided in the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements, the Marathon Parties make no representations or warranties of any kind, either express or implied. Except as otherwise contemplated or provided in the Tax Matters Agreement, any of the other Transaction Agreements or any of the Ancillary Agreements, the Ashland Parties acknowledge that their sole and exclusive remedy after the Closing with respect to any and all claims (other than (i) claims arising from covenants to the extent such covenants are to be performed after the Closing and (ii) claims of fraud) relating to the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements and the Transactions shall be pursuant to the indemnification provisions set forth in this Article XIII. In furtherance of the foregoing, except as otherwise contemplated or provided in the Tax Matters Agreement, any of the other Transaction Agreements or any of the Ancillary Agreements, the Ashland Parties hereby waive, from and after the Closing, any and all rights, claims and causes of action under any applicable Law (other than claims of, or causes of action arising from, (i) covenants to the extent such covenants are to be performed after the Closing and (ii) fraud) they may have against the Marathon Parties arising under or based upon the Transaction Agreements, the Ancillary Agreements and the Transactions (except pursuant to the indemnification provisions set forth in this Section 13.02). The Ashland Parties shall take reasonable actions to mitigate Losses for which indemnification may be sought under this Section 13.02, as and to the extent a party is required to mitigate damages for breach of contract under the Laws of the State of New York.
 
SECTION 13.03. (a) The amount of any Loss for which indemnification is provided in clause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v)(A) of Section 13.01(a) of this Agreement or clause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v)(A) of Section 13.02(a) of this Agreement shall be net of any amounts actually recovered by the indemnified party under the True Insurance Policies (as such term is defined in the ATCA) with respect to such Loss; , , that the indemnified party shall not have any obligation to seek any such recovery under any
Calculation of Losses.
provided
however
 
True Insurance Policy. The amount of any Loss for which indemnification is provided pursuant to Section 13.01(a) or Section 13.02(a) of this Agreement shall be (i) increased to take account of any net Tax cost incurred by the indemnified party arising from the receipt or accrual of indemnity payments hereunder (grossed up for such increase) and (ii) reduced to take account of any net Tax Benefit (as defined in the ATCA) realized by the indemnified party arising from the deductibility of any such Loss. In computing the amount of any such Tax cost or Tax Benefit, the indemnified party shall be deemed to recognize all other items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit before recognizing any item arising from the receipt or accrual of any indemnity payment hereunder or the deductibility of any indemnified Loss. Any indemnification payment hereunder shall initially be made without regard to clauses (i) and (ii) in the second sentence of this Section 13.03, and shall be increased or reduced to reflect any such net Tax cost (including gross-up) or net Tax Benefit only after the indemnified party has actually realized such cost or benefit. For purposes of this Agreement, an indemnified party shall be deemed to have "actually realized" a net Tax cost or a net Tax Benefit to the extent that, and at such time as, the amount of Taxes payable by such indemnified party is increased above or reduced below, as the case may be, the amount of Taxes, that such indemnified party would be required to pay but for the receipt or accrual of the indemnity payment or the deductibility of such Loss, as the case may be. The amount of any increase or reduction hereunder shall be adjusted to reflect any final determination (which shall include the execution of Form 870 AD or successor form) with respect to the indemnified party's liability for Taxes, and payments between the indemnified party and the indemnifying party to reflect such adjustment shall be made if necessary.
 
(b) No indemnified party shall be entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 13.01(a) with respect to any Loss that has been taken account of in any adjustment pursuant to Section 1.05 of the Maleic Agreement. If the amount of any Loss, at any time subsequent to the making of any payment for indemnification pursuant to Section 13.01(a) or 13.02(a), is reduced by recovery, settlement or otherwise under or pursuant to any claim, recovery, settlement or payment by or against any other person that is not an affiliate of the indemnified party, the amount of such reduction, less any costs,
 
expenses, premiums or other offsets incurred in connection therewith, shall promptly be repaid by the indemnified party to the indemnifying party. Upon making any payment for indemnification pursuant to Section 13.01(a) or 13.02(a), the indemnifying party shall, to the extent of such payment, be subrogated to all rights of the indemnified party (other than any rights of such indemnified party under any insurance policies) against any third party that is not an affiliate of the indemnified party in respect of the indemnifiable Loss to which such payment relates. Each such indemnified party shall duly execute upon request all instruments reasonably necessary to evidence and perfect the above described subrogation rights.
 
SECTION 13.04. (a) If any claim is asserted by any person not a party, or an affiliate or a Representative of a party, to this Agreement against an indemnified party under this Agreement (any such claim being a "") and such indemnified party intends to seek indemnification hereunder from a party to this Agreement, then, such indemnified party shall give notice of the Third Party Claim to the indemnifying party as soon as practicable after the indemnified party has reason to believe that the indemnifying party will have an indemnification obligation with respect to such Third Party Claim, accompanied by copies of all papers that have been served on the indemnified party with respect to such Third Party Claim. Such notice shall describe in reasonable detail the nature of the Third Party Claim, an estimate of the amount of damages attributable to the Third Party Claim (if reasonably attainable) and the basis of the indemnified party's request for indemnification under this Agreement. The failure of the indemnified party to so notify the indemnifying party of the Third Party Claim shall not relieve the indemnifying party from any duty to indemnify hereunder unless and only to the extent that the indemnifying party demonstrates that the failure of the indemnified party to promptly notify it of such Third Party Claim prejudiced its ability to defend such Third Party Claim; , that the failure of the indemnified party to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve the indemnifying party from any liability which it may have to the indemnified party otherwise than under this Agreement. Thereafter, the indemnified party shall deliver to the indemnifying party, within five business days after the
Procedures.
Notice of Third Party Claims.
Third Party Claim
provided
 
indemnified party's receipt thereof, copies of all written notices and documents (including court papers but excluding any materials that are subject to any applicable privilege or that constitute attorney work product) received by the indemnified party relating to the Third Party Claim.
 
(b) The indemnifying party shall have the right to participate in, or assume control of, the defense of the Third Party Claim at its own expense using counsel of its choice reasonably acceptable to the indemnified party, by giving prompt written notice to the indemnified party. If it elects to assume control of the defense of such Third Party Claim, the indemnifying party shall defend such Third Party Claim by promptly and vigorously prosecuting all appropriate proceedings to a final conclusion or settlement. After notice from the indemnifying party to the indemnified party of its election to assume the defense of such Third Party Claim, the indemnified party shall have the right to participate in the defense of the Third Party Claim using counsel of its choice, but the indemnifying party shall not be liable to the indemnified party hereunder for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by the indemnified party in connection with its participation in the defense thereof unless (i) the employment thereof has been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party, (ii) the indemnifying party fails to assume the defense in accordance with the first sentence of this Section 13.04(b) or diligently prosecute the defense of the Third Party Claim or (iii) there shall exist or develop a conflict that would ethically prohibit counsel to the indemnifying party from representing the indemnified party. The indemnified party agrees to provide such reasonable cooperation to the indemnifying party and its counsel as the indemnifying party may reasonably request in contesting any Third Party Claim that the indemnifying party elects to contest, including the making of any related counterclaim against the Third Party asserting the Third Party Claim or any cross-complaint against any person who is not an affiliate or Representative of the indemnified party, in each case only if and to the extent that any such counterclaim or cross-complaint arises from the same actions or facts giving rise to the Third Party Claim. The indemnifying party shall have the right, acting in good faith and with due regard to the interests of the indemnified party, to control all decisions regarding the handling of the defense
Right of Indemnifying Party to Control Defense of Third Party Claims.
 
without the consent of the indemnified party, but shall not have the right to admit liability with respect to, or compromise, settle or discharge any Third Party Claim or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to such Third Party Claim without the consent of the indemnified party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of the indemnified party from all liability and obligations arising out of such Third Party Claim and would not otherwise adversely affect the indemnified party.
 
(c) If the indemnifying party fails to assume the defense of a Third Party Claim within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice of the Third Party Claim in accordance with the provisions of Section 13.04(b), then the indemnified party shall have the right to defend the Third Party Claim by promptly and vigorously prosecuting all appropriate proceedings to a final conclusion or settlement. The indemnifying party shall have the right to participate in the defense of the Third Party Claim using counsel of its choice, but the indemnified party shall not be liable to the indemnifying party hereunder for any legal or other expenses incurred by the indemnifying party in connection with its participation in the defense thereof. If requested by the indemnified party, the indemnifying party agrees to provide such reasonable cooperation to the indemnified party and its counsel as the indemnified party may reasonably request in contesting any Third Party Claim that the indemnified party elects to contest, including the making of any related counterclaim against the third party asserting the Third Party Claim or any cross-complaint against any person who is not an affiliate or Representative of the indemnifying party, in each case only if and to the extent that any such counterclaim or cross-complaint arises from the same actions or facts giving rise to the Third Party Claim. The indemnified party shall have the right, acting in good faith and with due regard to the interests of the indemnifying party, to control all decisions regarding the handling of the defense without the consent of the indemnifying party, but shall not have the right to compromise or settle any Third Party Claim or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to such Third Party Claim without the consent of the indemnifying party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, unless such
Control of Third Party Claim by the Indemnified Party.
 
settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of the indemnifying party from all liability and obligations arising out of such Third Party Claim.
 
(d) In the event any indemnified party should have a claim against any indemnifying party under Section 13.01 or 13.02 that does not involve a Third Party Claim being asserted against or sought to be collected from such indemnified party, the indemnified party shall deliver notice of such claim with reasonable promptness to the indemnifying party. Subject to Sections 13.01(b) and 13.02(b), the failure by any indemnified party so to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve the indemnifying party from any liability that it may have to such indemnified party under Section 13.01 or 13.02, except to the extent that the indemnifying party demonstrates that it has been prejudiced by such failure. The indemnifying party shall have 60 calendar days following its receipt of such notice to dispute its liability to the indemnified party under Section 13.01 or 13.02. The indemnified party shall reasonably cooperate with and assist the indemnifying party in determining the validity of any claim for indemnity by the indemnified party and in otherwise resolving such matters. Such cooperation and assistance shall include retention and (upon the indemnifying party's request) the provision to the indemnifying party of records that are reasonably relevant to such matters, making employees available on a mutually convenient basis to provide additional information and explanation of any material provided hereunder, and providing such reasonable cooperation and assistance in the investigation and resolution of such matters as the indemnifying party may reasonably request. If the indemnifying party does not notify the indemnified party within 60 days from its receipt of a notice pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 13.04(d) that the indemnifying party disputes the claim specified by the indemnified party in such notice, that claim shall be deemed a liability of the indemnifying party hereunder. If the indemnifying party has timely disputed that claim, as provided above, that dispute may be resolved by proceedings in an appropriate court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with Section 14.10 if the parties do not reach a settlement of that dispute within 30 days after notice of that dispute is given. Payment of the amount set forth in a notice of a claim pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 13.04(d) that has not been disputed shall be made
Other Claims.
 
within 30 days after the expiration of the applicable 60 day notice period. If the payment obligation has been disputed, payment shall be made 30 days after the expiration of the period for appeal of a final adjudication of the indemnifying party's liability under this Agreement to the indemnified party with respect to such payment obligation.
 
(e) The foregoing provisions of this Article XIII shall not be applicable to any Tax Matters, it being understood that the indemnification obligations of New Ashland Inc. and Marathon with respect to all Tax Matters are set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement.
 
(f) The foregoing provisions of this Article XIII shall not be applicable to any Losses to the extent indemnification for such Losses is provided under the Franchise Agreements (as defined in the VIOC Agreement).
 
 
 
 
SECTION 14.01. All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications under the Transaction Agreements shall be in writing and shall be deemed to be delivered and received if personally delivered or if delivered by facsimile or courier service, when actually received by the party to whom notice is sent at the address of such party or parties set forth below (or at such other address as such party may designate by written notice to all other parties in accordance herewith):
Notices.
 
(a) if to the Ashland Parties, to
 
Ashland Inc.
50 E. RiverCenter Boulevard
Covington, KY 41012-0391
Attention: J. Marvin Quin
                 David L. Hausrath, Esq.
Facsimile: (859) 815-5053
 
with a copy (which will not constitute notice for purposes of this Agreement) to:
 
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP
Worldwide Plaza
825 Eighth Avenue
New York, NY 10019-7474
Attention: Susan Webster, Esq.
                 James C. Woolery, Esq.
Facsimile: (212) 474-3700
 
(b) if to the Marathon Parties, to
 
Marathon Oil Corporation
5555 San Felipe Road
Houston, TX 77056
Attention: Raja Sahni
                 Richard L. Horstman, Esq.
Facsimile: (713) 513-4172
 
with a copy (which will not constitute notice for purposes of this Agreement) to:
 
Baker Botts L.L.P.
One Shell Plaza
Houston, TX 77002-4995
Attention: Ted W. Paris, Esq.
                 Tull R. Florey, Esq.
Facsimile: (713) 229-1522
 
SECTION 14.02. For purposes of this Agreement:
Definitions.
 
An "" of any person means another person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such first person. As used in this definition, "control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a person (whether through ownership of capital stock of that person, by contract or otherwise). For the avoidance of doubt, MAP shall be deemed to be an affiliate of Marathon Company and not Ashland at all times, whether prior to or after the Closing.
affiliate
 
"" means the fraction of the MAP Partial Redemption Amount to be distributed in the form of accounts receivable of MAP such that, in the opinions of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP and Miller & Chevalier Chartered, the MAP Partial Redemption will not result in any gain recognition under Section 751(b) of the Code. Such fraction shall be determined based upon the final allocation report prepared by D&T and delivered to Ashland and Marathon on or within 10 days prior to the Closing Date.
AR Fraction
 
"" means an amount, determined in good faith by Ashland, in light of the
Ashland Debt Obligation Amount
 
Private Letter Rulings and any communications with the IRS, written or otherwise, that is sufficient to (i) pay the outstanding principal amount of debt that is shown on Ashland's balance sheet; (ii) pay repurchase premium and other costs to repay, repurchase or defease debt that is shown on Ashland's balance sheet or obligations referred to in clause (iii) below; (iii) repay and terminate obligations that are treated as debt for tax purposes but not for financial statement purposes; and (iv) terminate or renegotiate Ashland's obligations as lessee under real estate leases that are treated as true leases for tax purposes, in each case to the extent that such amounts, if paid by New Ashland Inc. with the proceeds of the HoldCo Borrowing, would result in no gain recognition to HoldCo under Section 357 of the Code.
 
"" means any option to purchase Ashland Common Stock granted under any Ashland Stock Plan.
Ashland Employee Stock Option
 
"" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in the Put/Call Agreement.
Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest
 
"" means Ashland, New Ashland LLC, New Ashland Inc. and, prior to the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, HoldCo.
Ashland Parties
 
"" means any stock appreciation right linked to the price of Ashland Common Stock and granted under any Ashland Stock Plan.
Ashland SAR
 
"" means the Amended Stock Incentive Plan for Key Employees of Ashland and its subsidiaries, Ashland 1993 Stock Incentive Plan, Ashland Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, Ashland 1997 Stock Incentive Plan, Ashland Deferred Compensation Plan, Ashland Stock Option Plan for Employees of Joint Ventures, Ashland Employee Savings Plan, Amended and Restated Ashland Incentive Plan, and any other stock option, stock purchase or other plan or agreement pursuant to which shares of Ashland Common Stock may be acquired as compensation by employees, consultants or any other person.
Ashland Stock Plan
 
"" means a good faith estimate, prepared jointly by MAP, Marathon and Ashland at least two business days prior to the Closing Date, of the MAP Partial Redemption Amount, which estimate
Estimated MAP Partial Redemption Amount
 
shall include Marathon's good faith estimate of any increase pursuant to the second sentence of Section 1.01.
 
"" means a new unsecured borrowing or borrowings by HoldCo with total proceeds in an amount equal to the Ashland Debt Obligation Amount. The HoldCo Borrowing shall be expressly non-recourse to Ashland and its affiliates (other than HoldCo) and shall otherwise be made on terms and conditions reasonably acceptable to Ashland.
HoldCo Borrowing
 
"" means the Initial Facility Throughput and Deficiency Agreement among Ashland, Marathon, Shell Oil Company, Texaco Inc. and LOCAP LLC (as successor to LOCAP Inc.), dated March 1, 1979, as amended.
LOCAP T&D Agreement
 
"" means an assumption agreement, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit E, pursuant to Section 7.2 of the LOCAP T&D Agreement.
LOCAP T&D Assumption Agreement
 
"" means the First Stage Throughput and Deficiency Agreement among Ashland, Marathon, Murphy Oil Corporation, Shell Oil Company, Texaco Inc. and LOOP LLC (as successor to LOOP Inc.), dated as of December 1, 1977, as amended.
LOOP T&D Agreement
 
"" means an assumption agreement, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit F, pursuant to Section 7.2 of the LOOP T&D Agreement.
LOOP T&D Assumption Agreement
 
"" means 38% of the Distributable Cash of MAP (as such term is defined in the MAP LLC Agreement) as of the close of business on the Closing Date.
MAP Adjustment Amount
 
"" means the Transaction Documents, as amended, as defined in the ATCA.
MAP Governing Documents
 
"" means the Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of MAP dated as of December 31, 1998, as amended.
MAP LLC Agreement
 
"" means assignment and assumption agreements in the form of Exhibits G, H and I hereto.
MAP/LOOP/LOCAP Contribution Agreements
 
"" means $2,699,170,000 minus the Ashland Debt Obligation Amount plus the MAP Adjustment Amount, plus any increases effected pursuant to the second sentence of Section 1.01 or clause (vii) of Section 12.01(d).
MAP Partial Redemption Amount
 
"" means any option to purchase Marathon Common Stock granted under any Marathon Stock Plan.
Marathon Employee Stock Option
 
"" means Marathon, Marathon Company, Merger Sub and, after the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, MAP.
Marathon Parties
 
"" means any stock appreciation right linked to the price of Marathon Common Stock and granted under any Marathon Stock Plan.
Marathon SAR
 
"" means the Marathon Oil Corporation 2003 Incentive Compensation Plan, 1990 Marathon Oil Company Stock Plan, The Marathon Oil Company Thrift Plan, the Marathon Oil Company Deferred Compensation Plan, the Marathon Oil Corporation Non-Officer Restricted Stock Plan, the Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC Deferred Compensation Plan and any other stock option, stock purchase or other plan or agreement pursuant to which shares of Marathon Common Stock may be acquired as compensation by employees, consultants or any other person.
Marathon Stock Plan
 
"" means a condition for the benefit of Third Party Lenders to the effect that their obligation to lend shall not be enforceable due to market disruption or other similar event.
Market MAC Condition
 
"" means (i) Marathon shall have obtained a firm commitment (subject to customary conditions) to provide the HoldCo Borrowing from Third Party Lenders that are nationally recognized commercial banks, (ii) such commitment shall be in full force and effect prior to the date on which the Closing would otherwise occur pursuant to Section 1.05 but for the failure of the Marathon Parties to cause the HoldCo Borrowing to be advanced to HoldCo and (iii) as of such date such Third Party Lenders shall have declined to make the HoldCo Borrowing available to HoldCo solely based upon the non-satisfaction of a Market MAC Condition.
Market MAC Event
 
"" shall have the meaning assigned thereto in Appendix A to the MAP LLC Agreement.
Membership Interest
 
"" means New Ashland Inc. common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and, with respect to such shares issued at and after the Acquisition Merger Effective Time, includes the associated Ashland Rights.
New Ashland Inc. Common Stock
 
A "" means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, company, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, Governmental Entity or other entity.
person
 
"" means the Mutual Release and Settlement Agreement between MAP and Plains Marketing, L.P. dated as of May 16, 2003.
Plains Settlement
 
"" means (i) the amended judgment in the matter of , No. 02-CR-152(01)(JMR) (D. Minn. Dec. 23, 2002), as such judgment may be further amended, supplemented, modified or replaced, and (ii) the plea agreement and sentencing stipulations in the matter of , No. 02-CR-152(JEL) (D. Minn. May 13, 2002).
St. Paul Park Judgment and Plea Agreement
United States of America v. Ashland Inc.
United States of America v. Ashland Inc.
 
A "" of any person means another person, an amount of the voting securities, other voting ownership or voting partnership interests of which is sufficient to elect at least a majority of its Board of Directors or other governing body (or, if there are no such voting interests, 50% or more of the equity interests of which) is owned directly or indirectly by such first person.
subsidiary
 
"" or "" means all forms of taxation imposed by any federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction (including any subdivision and any revenue agency of such a jurisdiction), including net income, gross income, alternative minimum, sales, use, ad valorem, gross receipts, value added, franchise, license, transfer, withholding, payroll, employment, excise, severance, stamp, property, custom duty, Taxes or governmental charges, together with any related interest, penalties or other additional amounts imposed by a Governmental Entity, and including all liability for or in respect of any of the foregoing as a result of being a member of a consolidated
Tax
Taxes
 
or similar group or a partner in an entity treated as a partnership or other pass-through entity for Tax purposes or as a result of any Tax sharing or similar contractual agreement.
 
"" means any federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction (including any subdivision and any revenue agency of such a jurisdiction) imposing Taxes.
Tax Authority
 
"" means any matter relating to Taxes.
Tax Matter
 
"" means, with respect to any account receivable of MAP, the product of (A) the outstanding balance of such account receivable on the Closing Date, multiplied by (B) one minus the applicable discount factor set forth in Exhibit A.
Value
 
"" means, with respect to AAA or HLHZ: (i) documents prepared or assembled by such firm setting forth the valuation assumptions used in connection with the Transactions to determine the fair value or present fair saleable value of the subject assets or businesses, including, as applicable, (A) representative financial statement data, (B) any adjustments made or considered by such firm to historical and projected financial data of Ashland or New Ashland Inc., (C) lists of comparable companies selected by such firm for valuation purposes and their relevant operating statistics and trading multiples, (D) lists of comparable transactions considered by such firm and (E) valuation multiples, discount rates and capitalization rates selected by such firm; (ii) lists of stated and contingent liabilities utilized by such firm, including any adjustments made or considered by such firm to information provided by Ashland or its Representatives; (iii) projected income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statements used or considered by such firm to assess the projected cash flows, debt capacity levels, summary of covenants tests and other factors impacting liquidity and (iv) analyses performed to determine if the subject company has or would have adequate capital remaining after giving effect to the Transaction, including similar calculations done for the selected comparable companies.
Working Papers
 
SECTION 14.03. When a reference is made in this Agreement to a Section or Article, such reference shall be to a Section or Article of this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The
Interpretation; Disclosure Letters.
 
table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include", "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation". No item contained in any section of either the Ashland Disclosure Letter or the Marathon Disclosure Letter shall be deemed adequate to disclose an exception to a representation or warranty made in this Agreement, unless (i) such item is included (or expressly incorporated by reference) in a section of the applicable disclosure letter that is numbered to correspond to the section number assigned to such representation or warranty in this Agreement or (ii) it is readily apparent from a reading of such item that it discloses an exception to such representation or warranty.
 
SECTION 14.04. If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any rule or Law, or public policy, all other conditions and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party hereto. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties hereto as closely as possible to the end that the transactions contemplated hereby are fulfilled to the greatest extent possible.
Severability.
 
SECTION 14.05. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties.
Counterparts.
 
SECTION 14.06. The Transaction Agreements, taken together with the exhibits hereto and thereto, the Ashland Disclosure Letter and the Marathon Disclosure Letter, the Confidentiality Agreement, and the other agreements and instruments of the parties hereto delivered in connection herewith, (a) constitute the entire agreement, and supersede all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, among the parties with respect to the
Entire Agreement; No Third-Party Beneficiaries.
 
Transactions and (b) except for the provisions of Section 2.05, Article V, Section 12.06(b) and Article XIII (the ""), are not intended to confer upon any person other than the parties hereto any rights or remedies. The Third Party Provisions may be enforced by the beneficiaries thereof; , , that the shareholders of Ashland in their capacities as such shall not have any rights or remedies under this Agreement, and shall not be entitled to enforce the Third Party Provisions or make any Claims with respect thereto, unless and until the Closing shall have occurred. For avoidance of doubt, (i) the shareholders of Marathon in their capacities as such shall not have any rights or remedies under this Agreement, (ii) after the Closing, holders of Dissenters' Shares shall have the rights and remedies specified in Section 2.05 only and (iii) after the Closing, the holders entitled to receive HoldCo Common Stock in the Reorganization Merger shall have the rights and remedies specified in Article V only. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Confidentiality Agreement shall remain in effect in accordance with its terms and, except as expressly amended hereby, the MAP Governing Documents are ratified and affirmed and shall remain in full force and effect.
Third Party Provisions
provided
however
 
SECTION 14.07. Except as this Agreement otherwise provides, no delay or omission in the exercise of, or failure to assert, any right, power or remedy accruing to any party hereto as a result of any breach or default hereunder by any other party hereto will impair any such right, power or remedy, nor will it be construed, deemed or interpreted as a waiver of or acquiescence in any such breach or default, or of any similar breach or default occurring later; nor will any waiver of any single breach or default be construed, deemed or interpreted as a waiver of any other breach or default hereunder occurring before or after that waiver. The failure of any party to this Agreement to assert any of its rights under the Transaction Agreements or otherwise shall not constitute a waiver of such rights.
Exercise of Rights and Remedies.
 
SECTION 14.08. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the Laws of the State of New York, regardless of the Laws that might otherwise govern under applicable principles of conflicts of Laws thereof, except to the extent the Laws of Kentucky are mandatorily applicable to the Reorganization
Governing Law.
 
Merger and the Conversion Merger and to the extent the Laws of Delaware are mandatorily applicable to the Acquisition Merger.
 
SECTION 14.09. Neither the Transaction Agreements nor any of the rights, interests or obligations under the Transaction Agreements shall be assigned, in whole or in part, by any of the parties without the prior written consent of the other parties, except that the rights, interests and obligations of any party under this Agreement or any of the other Transaction Agreements may be assigned by operation of law pursuant to a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving such party that would not reasonably expected to prevent or materially delay the consummation of the Transactions; , , that any assignment pursuant to the exception set forth in this sentence shall not operate to release any party from its obligations under this Agreement or any of the other Transaction Agreements. Subject to the preceding sentences, the Transaction Agreements will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, the parties and their respective successors and assigns.
Assignment.
provided
however
 
SECTION 14.10. The parties agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of the Transaction Agreements were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that, subject to Sections 13.01(c) and 13.02(c), the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of the Transaction Agreements and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of the Transaction Agreements in any New York state court or any Federal court located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York in the State of New York, this being in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity. In addition, each of the parties hereto (a) consents to submit itself to the personal jurisdiction of any New York state court or any Federal court located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York in the State of New York in the event any dispute arises out of the Transaction Agreements or any Transaction, (b) agrees that it will not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court, (c) agrees that it will not bring any action relating to any Transaction Agreement or any Transaction in
Enforcement.
 
any court other than any New York state court or any Federal court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York in the State of New York (, , that this clause (c) shall not limit the ability of any party hereto to (i) file a proof of claim or bring any action in any court in which a bankruptcy or reorganization proceeding involving another party hereto is pending, (ii) file a counter-claim or cross-claim against another party hereto in any court in which a proceeding involving both such parties is pending or (iii) implead another party hereto in respect of a Third Party Claim in any court in which a proceeding relating to such Third Party Claim is then pending) and (d) waives any right to trial by jury with respect to any action related to or arising out of any Transaction Agreement or any Transaction.
provided
however
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement, all as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
Accounts Receivable Selection Protocol
 
1. Subject to Paragraph 2 below, Distributed Receivables shall include:
 
(a) accounts receivable of MAP under third party credit cards, which as of January 31, 2004 had balances of $14.2 million and $48.1 million for MAP and Speedway SuperAmerica LLC, respectively, to the full extent of such accounts receivable. The Value of the Distributed Receivables referred to in this clause (a) shall be determined using a discount factor of 0.0123 percent (0.000123) to reflect expected credit losses and the time value of money.
First,
 
(b) accounts receivable of MAP in the categories listed in the following table, which had balances totaling $794.9 million as of January 31, 2004, in each case to the full extent of the accounts receivable in each numbered category before proceeding to the next numbered category. If less than all the accounts receivable in a numbered category are to be included in the Distributed Receivables, the Distributed Receivables shall include a pro rata portion of all the accounts receivable in such numbered category. The Value of the Distributed Receivables referred to in this clause (b) shall be determined using a discount factor of 0.3 percent (0.003) to reflect expected credit losses and the time value of money.
Second,
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Distributed Receivables shall not include accounts receivable: (i) from Ashland or any of its affiliates, which as of January 31, 2004 had balances of $19.5 million, (ii) from Pinnacle Polymers, which as of January 31, 2004 had balances of $17.4 million, (iii) from any obligor that has more than 30 percent of the dollar balance of its MAP accounts receivable past due by more than 30 days as of the close of business on the last day of the calendar month immediately preceding the Closing Date, (iv) from any obligor that is a party to a netting of payments arrangement through which MAP has a negative net receivable or (v) without the prior written consent of Ashland's Chief Financial Officer, for rebates or coupons.
 
(c) accounts receivable of MAP under Marathon credit cards and Speedway SuperAmerica LLC credit cards, which as of January 31, 2004 had balances of $44.1 million and $52.1 million, respectively. If less than all the accounts
Third,
 
receivable referred to in this clause (c) are to be included in the Distributed Receivables, the Distributed Receivables shall include a pro rata portion of all the accounts receivable referred to in this clause (c). The Value of the Distributed Receivables referred to in this clause (c) shall be determined using a discount factor of 2 percent (0.02) to reflect expected credit losses and the time value of money.
 
2. Five business days prior to the scheduled Closing Date, MAP shall provide to Ashland and Marathon its then most current list of accounts receivable of MAP sorted by the categories set forth in Paragraph 1 above. At or prior to the Closing, Ashland shall have the right to revise the priorities set forth in Paragraph 1 above by delivering notice of any such revision to Marathon.
 
3. Within five business days after the Closing Date, MAP shall provide to Ashland and Marathon a report identifying the accounts receivable of MAP that comprise the Distributed Receivables, determined in accordance with the priorities established in Paragraph 1 above, as modified by Paragraph 2 above, and the calculation of the Value of such accounts receivable using the discount factors set forth in Paragraph 1 above.
 
EXHIBIT D
 
 
Structure
 
1. The IRS issues a private letter ruling (a "") holding that the Maleic/VIOC Contribution described in Section 1.02(a), the MAP/LOOP/LOCAP Contribution described in Section 1.02(b) and the Reorganization Merger described in Section 1.02(c), taken together, qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(F) of the Code.
Ruling
 
2. The IRS issues a Ruling holding that the Capital Contribution described in Section 1.03(b) and the Conversion Merger described in Section 1.03(c), taken together with the Acquisition Merger described in Section 1.04(a) or the distribution by HoldCo of shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock described in Section 1.04(b), as the case may be, qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code.
 
3. The IRS issues a Ruling holding that the Acquisition Merger described in Section 1.04(a) or the distribution by HoldCo of shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock described in Section 1.04(b), as the case may be, qualifies as a distribution described in Section 355(a) of the Code and, accordingly, no gain or loss will be recognized by (and no amount will otherwise be included in the income of) the shareholders of HoldCo upon the receipt of such New Ashland Inc. Common Stock.
 
4. Either:
 
(a) The IRS issues a Ruling holding that the Acquisition Merger described in Section 1.04(a) will qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(A) of the Code; or
 
(b) If the IRS refuses to issue the Ruling described in paragraph 4(a) above, Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP delivers a written opinion to Ashland, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Ashland Board, concluding that the Acquisition Merger described in Section 1.04(a) will qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(A) of the Code; and Miller & Chevalier Chartered delivers a written opinion to Marathon, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Marathon Board,
 
that such Acquisition Merger qualifies as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(A) of the Code.
 
5. The IRS issues a Ruling holding that the shares of New Ashland Inc. Common Stock distributed to shareholders of HoldCo in the Acquisition Merger described in Section 1.04(a) or the distribution described in Section 1.04(b), as the case may be, will not be treated as "other property", within the meaning of Section 356(a) of the Code, received in exchange for HoldCo stock in the Acquisition Merger.
 
Section 357
 
6. The IRS issues a Ruling holding that the assumption by Marathon and/or Merger Sub of liabilities of HoldCo in the Acquisition Merger will not be treated as money or other property under Section 357 of the Code.
 
Contingent Liabilities
 
7. Either:
 
(a) The IRS issues a Ruling holding that New Ashland Inc. is entitled to deduct the Specified Liability Deductions (as defined in the Tax Matters Agreement); or
 
(b) The IRS issues a Ruling holding that (i) HoldCo, and Marathon or an affiliate of Marathon that is the "acquiring corporation" of HoldCo in the Acquisition Merger within the meaning of Section 381(a) of the Code, is entitled to deduct the Specified Liability Deductions, (ii) such deduction will not be limited under Section 382 or Section 384 of the Code or Treasury Regulation section 1.1502-15; (iii) such deduction is determined on the Net Deduction Method (as defined in the Tax Matters Agreement); (iv) the accrual or receipt of insurance reimbursements in respect of Specified Liability Deductions will not result in recognition of income or gain to any member of the New Ashland Group (as defined in the Tax Matters Agreement) (other than recognition of such income or gain by a member of the New Ashland Group in respect of Specified Liability Deductions claimed before the Closing Date by a member of the Ashland Group (as defined in the Tax Matters Agreement) or the New Ashland Group); and (v) any payment of Specified Liability Deductions by any member of the New Ashland Group will not result in recognition of income or gain to any
 
member of the Marathon Group (as defined in the Tax Matters Agreement).
 
8. Either:
 
(a) The IRS issues a Ruling holding that the effect of the assumption by New Ashland, Inc. of the Ashland Residual Operations Liabilities (as defined in the Tax Matters Agreement) on the basis of the New Ashland Inc. Common Stock in the hands of HoldCo will be determined under Section 358(h)(1) of the Code, or will be excluded from such application solely by reason of Section 358(h)(2) of the Code; or
 
(b) (i) The IRS issues a Ruling holding that the effect of such assumption on such basis will be determined under Section 358(d)(1) of the Code; (ii) such Ruling sets forth with specificity a method of determining the amount of the resulting reduction to basis under Section 358(d)(1) of the Code; and (iii) based on such method, on representations as to the basis of the New Ashland Inc. Common Stock before such reduction, and on representations as to the value of the New Ashland Inc. Common Stock to be distributed by HoldCo as of the date of such distribution (and on any other date that might be relevant), Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP delivers a written opinion to Ashland, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Ashland Board, that the distribution of the New Ashland Inc. Common Stock by HoldCo will not result in the recognition of gain by HoldCo under Section 355(e) of the Code in an amount greater than would be so recognized if the effect on such basis had been determined under Section 358(h)(1) of the Code rather than Section 358(d)(1) of the Code; and Miller & Chevalier Chartered delivers a written opinion to Marathon, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Marathon Board, concluding that the distribution of the New Ashland Inc. Common Stock by HoldCo does not result in the recognition of gain by HoldCo under Section 355(e) of the Code in an amount greater than would be so recognized if the effect on such basis had been determined under Section 358(h)(1) of the Code rather than Section 358(d)(1) of the Code.
 
Partnership
 
9. Either:
 
(a) The IRS issues a Ruling that the MAP Partial Redemption does not constitute a disguised sale of a partnership interest under Section 707(a)(2)(B) of the Code; or
 
(b) If the IRS refuses to issue the Ruling described in paragraph 9(a) above, Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP delivers a written opinion to Ashland, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Ashland Board, concluding that the MAP Partial Redemption will not constitute a disguised sale of a partnership interest under Section 707(a)(2)(B) of the Code; and Miller & Chevalier Chartered delivers a written opinion to Marathon, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Marathon Board, concluding that the MAP Partial Redemption does not constitute a disguised sale of a partnership interest under Section 707(a)(2)(B) of the Code.
 
10. Either:
 
(a) The IRS issues a Ruling that the MAP Partial Redemption will not be treated as a sale or exchange of property between Ashland and MAP under Section 751(b) of the Code; or
 
(b) If the IRS refuses to issue the Ruling described in paragraph 10(a) above, Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP delivers a written opinion to Ashland, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Ashland Board, concluding that the MAP Partial Redemption will not constitute a sale or exchange of property between Ashland and MAP under Section 751(b) of the Code; and Miller & Chevalier Chartered delivers a written opinion to Marathon, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Marathon Board, concluding that the MAP Partial Redemption does not constitute a sale or exchange of property between Ashland and MAP under Section 751(b) of the Code.
 

 
EXHIBIT 2.2
EXECUTION COPY
 
TAX MATTERS AGREEMENT dated as of March 18, 2004 (the "TMA" or "Agreement") among Ashland Inc., a Kentucky corporation ("Ashland"), ATB Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("HoldCo"), EXM LLC, a Kentucky limited liability company ("New Ashland LLC"), New EXM Inc., a Kentucky corporation ("New Ashland Inc."), Marathon Oil Company, an Ohio Company ("Marathon Company"), Marathon Oil Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Marathon"), Marathon Domestic LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Merger Sub") and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC, a Delaware limited liability company owned by Marathon Company and Ashland ("MAP").
 
WHEREAS, Ashland is the common parent of an affiliated group of domestic corporations that has elected to file consolidated Federal income tax returns.
 
WHEREAS, Marathon is the common parent of an affiliated group of domestic corporations that has elected to file consolidated Federal income tax returns (the "Marathon Affiliated Group").
 
WHEREAS, Ashland and Marathon Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Marathon, own all the limited liability company interests in MAP, which is treated for Federal income tax purposes as a partnership.
 
WHEREAS, Ashland and Marathon and certain of their respective related parties have entered into the Master Agreement pursuant to which they have agreed to engage in the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements, as those terms are defined in the Master Agreement (collectively, the "Transactions").
 
WHEREAS, as part of the Transactions, HoldCo will become the common parent of the Ashland Affiliated Group in a series of steps which are intended to qualify as a reorganization described in Code Section 368(a)(1)(F) (the "F Reorganization").
 
WHEREAS, as part of the F Reorganization, Ashland will contribute its Membership Interest and the Acquired Businesses to HoldCo and will merge with and into New Ashland LLC, which will assume all obligations of Ashland, including the obligations of Ashland under this TMA (the "F Reorganization Merger").
 
WHEREAS, as part of the Transactions, MAP will redeem a portion of Ashland's interest in MAP in exchange for a distribution of cash and MAP accounts receivable, as set forth in the Master Agreement (the "MAP Partial Redemption").
 
WHEREAS, as part of the Transactions, New Ashland LLC will merge with and into New Ashland Inc., which will assume all obligations of New Ashland LLC, including the obligations that New Ashland LLC assumed from Ashland (the "Conversion Merger").
 
WHEREAS, as part of the Transactions, (i) HoldCo will distribute, to the former holders of the stock of Ashland, all the stock of New Ashland Inc. in a transaction intended to qualify as a distribution described in Code Section 355 (the "Spinoff"), and (ii) HoldCo will merge with and into Merger Sub in a transaction intended to qualify as a reorganization described in Code Section 368(a)(1)(A) (the "Acquisition Merger") and as a result of such merger, HoldCo will cease to exist.
 
WHEREAS after the Acquisition Merger, Marathon may cause Merger Sub to contribute all or a portion of the assets and liabilities that it acquired in the Acquisition Merger to a newly formed corporation that is a wholly-owned, direct subsidiary of Merger Sub.
 
WHEREAS, immediately after the Spinoff, New Ashland Inc. will be the common parent of an affiliated group of domestic corporations that elects to file consolidated Federal income tax returns, which will not include HoldCo (the "New Ashland Inc. Affiliated Group").
 
WHEREAS the parties to this TMA wish to allocate and assign certain Tax responsibilities, liabilities and benefits among themselves and to provide for certain other Tax matters.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements contained in this TMA, the parties agree as follows:
 
 
 
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meaning:
 
"" means the "Maleic Business" and the "VIOC Centers", as each such term is defined in the Master Agreement.
Acquired Businesses
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the ninth WHEREAS clause of this TMA.
Acquisition Merger
 
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Master Agreement.
affiliate
 
"" means an affiliated group of corporations within the meaning of Code Section 1504(a) for the taxable period in question.
affiliated group
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(b) of this TMA.
Alternative Ruling
 
"" means the affiliated group of domestic corporations that has elected to file consolidated Federal income tax returns of which Ashland (and immediately after the F Reorganization, HoldCo) is the common parent.
Ashland Affiliated Group
 
"" means (i) the corporations that are members of the Ashland Affiliated Group and (ii) the corporations that would be members of the Ashland Affiliated Group but for the fact that they are not includible corporations under Code Section 1504(b).
Ashland Group
 
"" means any obligation of Ashland or any of its present or former subsidiaries (including but not limited to Riley Stoker Inc.) relating to claims made at any time that are attributable to allegations of exposure to asbestos on or before the Closing Date with respect to Residual Business Operations, to the extent that New Ashland Inc. or any member of the New Ashland Inc. Group is liable for such obligation after the Closing Date.
Ashland Asbestos Liabilities
 
"" means any obligation of Ashland or any of its present or former subsidiaries that is attributable to Residual Business Operations or to the HoldCo Businesses, including but not limited to Ashland Asbestos Liabilities, Ashland Employee Liabilities and Ashland Environmental Liabilities.
Ashland Residual Operations Liabilities
 
"" means (i) any obligation of Ashland or any of its present or former subsidiaries for any Employee Benefit Obligation to be provided to or on behalf of present or former employees of Ashland or any such subsidiaries for services that are attributable to Residual Business Operations or to the HoldCo Businesses, in each case that are performed on or before the Closing Date, to the extent that New Ashland Inc. or any member of the New Ashland Inc. Group is liable for such obligation after the Closing Date and (ii) any obligation pursuant to the exercise of any Option by any current or former employees of HoldCo Businesses or Residual Business Operations with respect to the capital stock of Ashland, HoldCo or New Ashland Inc.
Ashland Employee Liabilities
 
"" means any obligation of Ashland or any of its present or former subsidiaries relating to claims made at any time for environmental damages or remediation or similar expenses arising from acts, omissions or conditions occurring or existing on or before the Closing Date that are attributable to Residual Business Operations or to the HoldCo Businesses, to the extent that New Ashland Inc. or any member of the New Ashland Inc. Group is liable for such obligation after the Closing Date.
Ashland Environmental Liabilities
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, the occurrence or existence of any of the following events or conditions: such Person (1) is dissolved (other than the dissolution of a transferor in connection with a transfer to a successor as contemplated by Section 10.14); (2) admits in writing its inability generally to pay its debts; (3) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; (4) institutes or has instituted against it a proceeding seeking a judgment of insolvency or bankruptcy or any
Bankruptcy Event
 
similar relief under any bankruptcy or insolvency law or other similar law affecting creditors' rights, or a petition is presented for its winding up or liquidation and, in the case of any such proceeding or petition instituted or presented against it, such proceeding or petition (A) results in a judgment of insolvency or bankruptcy or the entry of an order for similar relief or the making of an order for its winding up or liquidation or (B) is not dismissed or discharged within 60 days of the institution or filing thereof; (5) has a resolution passed by its Board of Directors for its winding up or liquidation (other than the winding up or liquidation of a transferor in connection with a transfer to a successor as contemplated by Section 10.14); (6) consents to, or becomes subject to an order or judgment providing for, the appointment of an administrator, receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for all or substantially all its assets and, in the case of an order or judgment, such judgment or order is not dismissed, discharged, stayed or restrained in each case within sixty (60) days of the entry or making thereof; or (7) takes any action in furtherance of, or expressly indicates its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any of the foregoing.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.02(c) of this TMA.
Bankruptcy Party
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.02(c) of this TMA.
Bankruptcy Tax Claims
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(b)(i) of this TMA.
Basket One Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(b)(ii)(C) of this TMA.
Basket One Cap
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(b)(ii)(C).
Basket One Cap Base Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(b)(ii)(C) of this TMA.
Basket One Cap Carryforward
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(b)(ii)(B) of this TMA.
Basket One Deductions
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(b)(ii)(A) of this TMA.
Basket One Tax Rate
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(c)(i) of this TMA.
Basket Two Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(c)(ii)(B) of this TMA.
Basket Two Carryovers
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(c)(ii)(A) of this TMA.
Basket Two Deductions
 
"" and " have the meanings set forth in the Master Agreement.
Closing
Closing Date
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the eighth WHEREAS clause of this TMA.
Conversion Merger
 
"" means any obligation (whether current or deferred) for any compensation, pension, severance payment, medical, retirement or disability benefit, life insurance or any similar employee benefit.
Employee Benefit Obligation
 
"" means the escrow created under the Escrow Agreement.
Escrow
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.02(a) of this TMA.
Escrow Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.02(c)(i)(B) of this TMA.
Escrow Threshold
 
"" means (i) unforeseen funding requirements resulting from damage to MAP properties by storm, fire, or similar catastrophic events, or (ii) unforeseen expenditures that are mandated by law, regulation or administrative ruling, in each case that are promulgated after the Closing Date.
Extraordinary Events
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the sixth WHEREAS clause of this TMA.
F Reorganization Merger
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(a)(i) of this TMA.
Federal Tax Benefit Payments
 
"" means the final resolution of liability for any Tax for any taxable period by or as a result of: (i) a final and unappealable decision, judgment, decree or other order by any court of competent jurisdiction; (ii) a final closing agreement or accepted offer in compromise under Code Sections 7121 or 7122, or a comparable agreement under the laws of any other jurisdiction, which resolves the entire Tax liability for the entire taxable period; (iii) a duly executed IRS Form 870 or 870-AD (or any successor forms thereto), on the date such form is effective, or by a comparable form under the laws of other jurisdictions; except that a Form 870 or 870-AD or comparable form that reserves (whether by its terms or by operation of law) the right of the taxpayer to file a claim for Refund and/or the right of the Tax Authority to assert a further deficiency shall not constitute a Final Determination with respect to the right so reserved; (iv) any allowance of a Refund or credit in respect of an overpayment of such Tax, but only after the expiration of all periods during which such Refund may be recovered (including by way of offset) by the jurisdiction imposing such Tax; (v) the execution of a closing agreement with respect to a pre-filing agreement described in Rev. Proc. 2001-22, or (vi) any other final disposition by reason of the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations or by mutual agreement of the parties hereto.
Final Determination
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.02(c)(i)(A) of this TMA.
Fully Funded
 
"" means the Acquired Businesses and the JV Interests.
HoldCo Businesses
 
"" means any Taxes imposed on or determined by reference to gross or net income or profits or any other measure of income or profits.
Income Taxes
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.01 of this TMA.
Independent Entity
 
"" means the U.S. GDP Implicit Price Deflator, which shall be applied annually to adjust prices to constant dollar amounts beginning with the calendar year following the year of the Closing Date.
Inflation Factor
 
"" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
 
"" means the "Membership Interest" and the "LOOP/LOCAP Interests", as each such term is defined in the Master Agreement.
JV Interests
 
"" means the entities wholly or partially owned, directly or indirectly, through the ownership of the JV Interests.
JV Entities
 
"" means the Master Agreement dated as of the date of this Agreement, among Ashland, HoldCo, New Ashland LLC, New Ashland Inc., Marathon, Marathon Company, Merger Sub and MAP.
Master Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the second WHEREAS clause of this TMA.
Marathon Affiliated Group
 
"" means (i) the corporations that are members of the Marathon Affiliated Group and (ii) the corporations that would be members of the Marathon Affiliated Group but for the fact that they are not includible corporations under Code Section 1504(b), including in both cases, beginning on the day after the Closing Date, former members of the Ashland Group that become members of the Marathon Group by reason of the Acquisition Merger.
Marathon Group
 
"" means any Tax Item arising from or related to the ownership or operation of HoldCo or the HoldCo Businesses attributable to a Post-Closing Period.
Marathon Tax Matter
 
"" means the Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of MAP, dated as of December 31, 1998, as amended to the date of this TMA.
MAP LLC Agreement
 
"" means, with respect to Specified Liability Deductions, the deduction of such amounts as they are accrued and recognized under the accrual method of accounting, net of actual and anticipated insurance recoveries
Net Deduction Method
 
determined under the accrual method of accounting, in each case applied consistently from year to year.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the eleventh WHEREAS clause of this TMA.
New Ashland Inc. Affiliated Group
 
"" means (i) the corporations that are members of the New Ashland Inc. Affiliated Group and (ii) the corporations that would be members of the New Ashland Inc. Affiliated Group but for the fact that they are not includible corporations under Code Section 1504(b).
New Ashland Inc. Group
 
"" means any Tax Item (i) arising during a Pre-Closing Period or (ii) from or related to a Post-Closing Period that is not a Marathon Tax Matter.
New Ashland Inc. Tax Matter
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.02(c) of this TMA.
Non-Bankruptcy Party
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(a)(i) of this TMA.
Non-Federal Tax Benefit Payment
 
"" means any compensatory stock option, stock appreciation right, restricted stock or similar instrument.
Option
 
"" means any Taxes other than Income Taxes.
Other Taxes
 
"" mean any Tax Items that are passed through to, and reportable on the Tax Returns of, one or more of the owners of MAP or any other JV Entity and that could result in an increase or decrease in any such owner's liability for Taxes.
Pass-Though Items
 
"" means any taxable period, and in the case of a Straddle Period the portion of any such period, beginning after the Closing Date.
Post-Closing Period
 
"" means the Pre-Closing Taxable Periods, and the portion of any Straddle Period ending on the Closing Date.
Pre-Closing Period
 
"" means any taxable period ending on or before the Closing Date.
Pre-Closing Taxable Period
 
"" means any refund of Taxes, including any reductions of Taxes paid or payable by means of credits, offsets or otherwise.
Refund
 
"" means former business operations of Ashland or any current or former member of the Ashland Group, in each case determined as of the date of this Agreement, that will not be transferred or deemed to be transferred to New Ashland Inc. pursuant to the Conversion Merger.
Residual Business Operations
 
"" means any Taxes, arising in any taxable period, resulting from the application of Code Section 355(e) to the Spinoff.
Section 355(e) Taxes
 
"" means the amount, in any taxable period, allowable as deductible expenses for Federal income tax purposes in respect of Ashland Residual Operations Liabilities (after applying the applicable limitations, if any, under Code Sections 382 and 384 and Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-15).
Specified Liability Deductions
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the ninth WHEREAS clause of this TMA.
Spinoff
 
"" means any taxable period that includes, but does not end on, the Closing Date.
Straddle Period
 
"" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Master Agreement.
subsidiary
 
"" or "" means all forms of taxation imposed by any federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction (including any subdivision and any revenue agency of such a jurisdiction), including without limitation net income, gross income, alternative minimum, sales, use, ad valorem, gross receipts, value added, franchise, license, transfer, withholding, payroll, employment, excise, severance, stamp, property, custom duty, taxes or governmental charges, together with any related interest, penalties or other additional amounts imposed by any federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction (including any subdivision and any revenue agency of such a jurisdiction), and including all liability for or in respect of any of the foregoing as a result of being a member of a consolidated or similar group or a partner in an entity treated as a partnership or other pass-through entity for Tax purposes or as a result of any tax sharing or similar contractual agreement.
Tax
Taxes
 
"" means any federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction (including any subdivision and any revenue agency of such a jurisdiction) imposing Taxes and the agency, if any, charged with the collection of such Taxes for such authority.
Tax Authority
 
"" means any item of loss, deduction, credit, or any other Tax Item that decreases Taxes paid or payable.
Tax Benefit
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(a)(i) of this TMA.
Tax Benefit Payments
 
"" means any letter or certificate that is referred to in, and forms a basis for, a Tax Opinion.
Tax Certificate
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.02(a)(i) of this TMA.
Tax Claim
 
"" means any item of income, gain, recapture of credit or any other Tax Item that increases Taxes paid or payable, or any reduction in or limitation
Tax Detriment
 
of, any Tax Item due to the application of Code Sections 382, 384 or Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-15.
 
"" means any item of income, gain, loss, deduction, credit, recapture of credit, or other similar item, that may have the effect of increasing or decreasing any Tax paid or payable, including any adjustment to tax basis or any adjustment under Code Section 481.
Tax Item
 
"" means the increase in Tax paid or payable to the relevant Tax Authority (or, without duplication, the reduction in any Refund) attributable to a Tax Detriment.
Tax Loss
 
"" means the opinions of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP and Miller & Chevalier Chartered concerning certain Federal income tax issues related to the Transactions to be delivered to Ashland and Marathon, respectively, pursuant to Section 10.01(f) of the Master Agreement.
Tax Opinion
 
"" means any return, filing, questionnaire, information statement, or other document required to be filed, including amended returns that may be filed for any period or portion thereof with any Tax Authority in connection with any Tax (whether or not a payment is required to be made with respect to such filing).
Tax Return
 
"" means the IRS private letter ruling received in response to the Tax Ruling Request.
Tax Ruling
 
"" means the private letter ruling request that will be filed with the IRS by Ashland and Marathon with respect to the Transactions, together with all exhibits, appendices, and supplements to that filing.
Tax Ruling Request
 
"" means the decrease in Tax paid or payable to the relevant Tax Authority (or, without duplication, the increase in any Refund) attributable to a Tax Benefit.
Tax Savings
 
"" means the manner, order or form in which the Transactions (currently as contemplated or as amended prior to the Closing) are effected pursuant to the Master Agreement or any Transaction Agreement.
Tax Structure
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the fourth WHEREAS clause of this TMA.
Transactions
 
"" means Taxes, other than Transfer Taxes, of any member of the Ashland Group for any Pre-Closing Period or the New Ashland Inc. Group or the Marathon Group for any taxable period resulting from, or arising in connection with any portion of the Transactions; for the avoidance of doubt, Transaction Taxes includes Section 355(e) Taxes.
Transaction Taxes
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03 of this TMA.
Transfer Taxes
 
"" means the active trade or business conducted by the business division of Ashland (and immediately following the Transactions, of New Ashland Inc.) of the same name.
Valvoline
 
All capitalized terms used but not defined in this TMA shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Master Agreement.
 
 
 
SECTION 2.01. (a) Except as otherwise provided in Sections 2.03, 2.04, 2.05 and Articles V and VI of this TMA, New Ashland Inc. and each member of the New Ashland Inc. Group shall be liable for, shall indemnify each member of the Marathon Group against, and shall be entitled to all Refunds of, less reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with such Refund, (i) all Taxes for all Pre-Closing Periods of each member of the Ashland Group and the Acquired Businesses; (ii) all Taxes for all Post-Closing Periods that are imposed on or collected from any member of the Marathon Affiliated Group as a transferee of or successor to HoldCo, pursuant to any law, rule or regulation, imposed on taxable income or gain that is attributable, in whole or in part, to events or transactions that occur on or before the Closing Date but that is recognized for tax purposes in a Post-Closing Period as a result of the installment method of accounting, completed contract method of accounting, the long-term contract method of accounting, the recapture of a dual consolidated loss, Section 481 of the Code (other than any such Taxes imposed by reason of a change in accounting method by HoldCo or a successor to HoldCo made or applied for by Marathon or a Member of the Marathon Group after the Closing Date, unless such change was contemplated by this TMA, or made or applied for by New Ashland Inc. or a member of the New Ashland Inc. Group, or made by Marathon with New Ashland Inc.'s consent, or required as a condition of the Transactions by the Tax Ruling or otherwise), or other provisions of Federal, state, local or foreign tax law that have a similar effect and all Taxes attributable to the adoption by HoldCo of the Net Deduction Method with respect to Specified Liability Deductions; (iii) all Taxes for all taxable periods of each member of the New Ashland Inc. Group; (iv) all Taxes imposed on any member of the Marathon Group with respect to insurance recoveries received by any member of the New Ashland Inc. Group that are attributable to Residual Business Operations; (v) all Taxes for which any current or former member of the Ashland Group or the New Ashland Inc. Group is liable under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-6 (or any analogous provision of state, local or foreign law); (vi) all Taxes payable by Ashland or HoldCo that are attributable to Pass-Through Items of MAP or any other JV Entity with respect to any Pre-Closing Period; (vii) all Transaction Taxes; and (viii) all Tax Losses of any member of the Marathon Group resulting from the failure by any member of the Ashland Group or the New Ashland Inc. Group, as the case may be, to use a consistent position as described in the last sentence of Section 3.04 of this TMA.
General.
Indemnification by New Ashland Inc.
 
(b) Except as otherwise provided in Sections 2.03, 2.04, 2.05 and Articles V and VI of this TMA, Marathon and each member of the Marathon Group shall be liable for, and shall indemnify each member of the New Ashland Inc. Group against, and shall be entitled to all Refunds of, less reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with such Refund, (i) all Taxes for all taxable periods of each member of the Marathon Group, other than as a successor to or transferee of a former member of the Ashland Affiliated Group by reason of the Acquisition Merger, and (ii) all Taxes for all taxable periods that are imposed on and payable by MAP or any JV Entities.
Indemnification by Marathon.
 
SECTION 2.02. (a) Taxes and Refunds of any entity or with respect to the Acquired Businesses for any Straddle Period shall be apportioned between the Pre-Closing Period and the Post-Closing Period on the basis of a "closing of the books" as of the end of the Closing Date, Other Taxes that are not based on revenues, sales or a similar measure shall be apportioned between the Pre-Closing Period and the Post-Closing Period based on the number of days of the relevant taxable period that are in the Pre-Closing Period and the Post-Closing Period respectively.
Apportionment of Items for Straddle Periods.
Taxes.
provided that
 
(b) For purposes of determining the Taxes payable by the owner of a JV Interest in MAP or any other JV Entity that is treated for purposes of the relevant Tax as a pass-through entity, the Pass-Through Items for any Straddle Period of such JV Entity shall be apportioned between the Pre-Closing Period and the Post-Closing Period on the basis of a "closing of the books" as of the end of the Closing Date in accordance with Code Section 706(c)(2)(A) and Treasury Regulation Section 1.706-1(c)(2)(i) (or corresponding principles of state, local or foreign laws, rules or regulations); Other Taxes of MAP or such JV Entity that are not based on revenues, sales or a similar measure shall be apportioned between the Pre-Closing and the Post-Closing Period based on the number of days of the relevant taxable period that are in the Pre-Closing Period and the Post-Closing Period respectively.
Apportionment of Pass-Through Items of MAP and certain other JV Entities.
provided that
 
SECTION 2.03. New Ashland Inc. shall be liable for, shall indemnify each member of the Marathon Group against, and shall be entitled to retain all Refunds of, less reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with such Refund, all transfer, documentary, sales, use, registration and similar Taxes and related fees incurred in connection with the Transactions (collectively "Transfer Taxes"). New Ashland Inc., with Marathon's cooperation, shall timely prepare and file all Tax Returns relating to Transfer Taxes as may be required to comply with the provisions of such Tax laws.
Transfer
Taxes.
 
SECTION 2.04. Marathon shall be liable for, shall indemnify each member of the New Ashland Inc. Group against, and shall be entitled to retain all Refunds of, less reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with such Refund, any Transaction Taxes to the extent that such Taxes are primarily attributable to:
Certain Transaction Taxes.
 
(a) any inaccurate, written representation or warranty of fact or intent specifically made by, or specifically attributed to, any member of the Marathon Group (other than HoldCo) in the Tax Ruling Request, the Tax Ruling or a Tax Certificate and that is specified on Schedule 2.04 attached hereto (as amended from time to time by the unanimous agreement of Marathon and Ashland).
 
(b) any breach by any member of the Marathon Group of a covenant in Section 7.03(b) of this TMA,
 
unless such Transaction Taxes would have been imposed without regard to such inaccuracy or breach.
 
SECTION 2.05. . Each member of the New Ashland Inc. Group shall comply with the terms of any Section 367 "gain recognition agreement" executed by a member of the Ashland Group during a Pre-Closing Period, including, without limitation, by including the gain, if any, required to be recognized pursuant to the terms of any such agreement (or by virtue of the application of any provision of Treasury Regulation Section 1.367(a)-8) and the payment of any Tax that is required to be paid pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.367(a)-8(b)(3). If a Tax Authority determines that any member of the Ashland Group or the New Ashland Inc. Group has failed to comply with the terms of any such agreement or any provision of Treasury Regulation Section 1.367(a)-8, the New Ashland Inc. Group shall be liable for any resulting liability for Taxes and each member of the New Ashland Inc. Group shall indemnify each member of the Marathon Group against any such Tax liability.
Gain Recognition Agreement Taxes
 
 
 
SECTION 3.01. (a) Ashland (before the F Reorganization Merger), and New Ashland Inc. LLC and New Ashland Inc. (after the F Reorganization Merger), shall prepare and file, or cause to be prepared and filed, all Tax Returns (i) of each member of the Ashland Group (including any Tax Returns related to the Acquired Businesses) for all Pre-Closing Periods, (ii) of each member of the New Ashland Inc. Group for all taxable periods and (iii) that it is required to file pursuant to Section 3.02. Ashland and New Ashland Inc., as the case may be, shall timely pay all Taxes with respect to such Tax Returns.
Preparation and Filing of Original Tax Returns.
 
(b) On or before the first date following the Closing Date on which the Ashland Group or the New Ashland Inc. Group is required to make a payment of actual or estimated Federal income tax for the taxable year in which the Closing Date occurs or the succeeding taxable year, New Ashland Inc. shall make, or cause to be made, a payment of actual or estimated Federal income tax that includes an amount equal to the estimated liability for Section 355(e) Taxes. At least 20 days prior to making such payment, New Ashland Inc. shall prepare and deliver to Marathon a schedule setting forth New Ashland Inc.'s calculation of the estimated amount of the Section 355(e)
 
Taxes. If Marathon, within 10 business days after delivery of any such schedule, notifies New Ashland Inc. in writing that it objects to the calculations, which notice shall specify in reasonable detail the basis for the dispute, both parties shall attempt in good faith to resolve the dispute and, if they are unable to do so, the disputed items shall be resolved within a reasonable time by a mutually acceptable certified public accounting firm. New Ashland Inc.'s calculation of its actual or estimated Federal income tax payment under this Section 3.01(b) shall take into account the resolution of the disputed items.
 
(c) Marathon shall prepare and file, or cause to be prepared and filed, all Tax Returns (i) of former members of the Ashland Group and successors thereof that become members of the Marathon Group by reason of the Acquisition Merger for all Post-Closing Periods, (ii) of each other member of the Marathon Group for all taxable periods, and (iii) that it is required to prepare and file pursuant to Section 3.02. Marathon shall timely pay all Taxes with respect to such Tax Returns.
 
(d) MAP shall prepare and file, or cause to be prepared and filed, all Tax Returns of MAP and its subsidiaries for any Pre-Closing Period and any Straddle Period, and such Tax Returns shall be prepared and filed in a manner consistent with past practice and in accordance with the MAP LLC Agreement as in effect immediately prior to the Closing.
 
SECTION 3.02. (a) Following the Closing Date, Marathon and New Ashland Inc. shall meet and prepare a written schedule that allocates the responsibility for preparing and filing Straddle Period Tax Returns in each jurisdiction of former members of the Ashland Group and successors thereof that become members of the Marathon Group by reason of the Acquisition Merger. If the parties are unable to agree, the party with the most substantial presence in the jurisdiction, taking into account their respective assets or businesses, shall have preparation and filing responsibility. If Marathon and New Ashland Inc. are not able to agree upon the party with the most substantial presence in a jurisdiction within 60 days after the Closing Date, the preparation and filing responsibility for the disputed jurisdictions shall be determined by a mutually acceptable certified public accounting firm. The filing party shall timely pay all Taxes with respect to such Straddle Period Tax Returns.
Straddle Period Tax Returns.
 
(b) For each Straddle Period Tax Return described in Section 3.01(a) of this TMA that includes any Marathon Tax Matter, Marathon shall promptly prepare and provide to New Ashland Inc. any information or documentation reasonably requested by New Ashland Inc. to facilitate the preparation and filing of such Tax Return. For each Straddle Period Tax Return described in Section 3.01(c) of this TMA that includes any New Ashland Inc. Tax Matter, New Ashland Inc. shall promptly prepare and provide to Marathon any information or documentation reasonably requested by Marathon to facilitate the preparation and filing of such Tax Return.
 
(c) All Straddle Period Tax Returns shall be submitted to the other party not later than 30 days prior to the due date, including extensions, for the filing of such Tax Returns (or if such due date is within 45 days following the Closing Date, as promptly as practicable following the Closing Date). Such other party shall have the
 
right to review such Tax Returns and to review all workpapers and procedures used to prepare any such Tax Return. If the nonfiling party, within 10 business days after delivery of any such Tax Return, notifies the filing party in writing that it objects to any of the Tax Items in such Tax Return, both parties shall attempt in good faith to resolve the dispute and, if they are unable to do so, the disputed items shall be resolved within a reasonable time, taking into account the deadline for filing such Tax Return, by a mutually acceptable certified public accounting firm. Upon resolution of all such Tax Items, the filing party shall file the relevant Straddle Period Tax Return on that basis. The accounting firm shall treat all Tax Returns of the parties as confidential, and shall not reveal any information contained in, or any part of, the Tax Returns of one party to the other without prior written consent. The costs, fees, and expenses of such certified public accounting firm shall be borne equally by Marathon and New Ashland Inc.
 
(d) Marathon and New Ashland Inc., as the case may be, shall provide the other party with a calculation and determination of the amount of the Straddle Period Taxes that are included in any returns filed by the other party under Sections 3.01(a) and 3.01(c) of this TMA. In the absence of a Final Determination, all such determinations shall be prepared in a manner consistent with past practice. If either party disputes such a determination, it may make a written request that the other party obtain written confirmation from a mutually acceptable certified public accounting firm that the determination is consistent with the preceding sentence. If the accounting firm issues a confirmation, then such determination shall be binding upon the parties. If the accounting firm does not issue a confirmation, then the determination in the returns shall be amended to permit a confirmation to be issued by the accounting firm in respect of the amended determination. If a dispute is not resolved prior to the due date of a Tax Return, the Tax Return shall be filed in accordance with the determination made by the filing party, and both parties hereby agree to file or cause to be filed an amended Tax Return, if necessary, reflecting the resolution of the issue by the accounting firm. The accounting firm shall treat all Tax Returns of the parties as confidential, and shall not reveal any information contained in, or any part of, the Tax Returns of one party to the other without prior written consent. The costs, fees, and expenses of such certified public accounting firm shall be borne equally by Marathon and New Ashland Inc.
 
SECTION 3.03. (a) New Ashland Inc. shall be entitled to amend any Tax Return described in Section 3.01(a) of this TMA; , to the extent that such an amendment with respect to a Straddle Period Tax Return adversely affects any Marathon Tax Matter or would result in a Tax Detriment to Marathon, such amendment may not be made without the prior written consent of Marathon, which may not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. New Ashland Inc. may request that Marathon amend any Straddle Period Tax Return described in Section 3.01(c) of this TMA that Marathon is obligated to file, but only to the extent that such amendment affects a New Ashland Inc. Tax Matter; such an amendment shall be filed only with the prior written consent of Marathon, which may not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Amended Tax Returns.
provided that
provided that
 
(b) Marathon shall be entitled to amend any Tax Return described in Section 3.01(c) of this TMA; , to the extent that such an amendment with
provided that
 
respect to a Straddle Period Tax Return adversely affects any New Ashland Inc. Tax Matter or would result in a Tax Detriment to New Ashland Inc., such amendment may not be made without the prior written consent of New Ashland Inc., which may not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Marathon may request that New Ashland Inc. amend any Straddle Period Tax Return described in Section 3.01(a) of this TMA, but only to the extent that such amendment affects a Marathon Tax Matter or a Tax Item that could result in a Tax Detriment to Marathon; such an amendment shall be filed only with the prior written consent of New Ashland Inc., which may not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
provided that
 
(c) MAP shall not, and Marathon shall not permit MAP to, amend any Tax Return of MAP or any of its subsidiaries for any Pre-Closing Period or any Straddle Period if such amendment would result in a Tax Detriment to New Ashland Inc. without the prior written consent of New Ashland Inc., which may not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
 
(d) In the event that a party refuses to consent to an amendment to a Tax Return to which such consent is required pursuant to this Section 3.03 and the parties are unable to resolve their disagreements after good faith attempts to do so, the parties shall engage a mutually acceptable certified public accounting firm to estimate the present value of the realizable Tax Savings of the amendment to the party proposing such amendment and the present value of the realizable Tax Loss of the amendment to the party withholding its consent to such amendment. If the accounting firm determines that the present value of such estimated Tax Savings exceeds the present value of such estimated Tax Loss, the party proposing such amendment shall be entitled to so amend the applicable Tax Return, such party agrees to pay to the party withholding its consent an amount equal to the present value of any such Tax Loss. The accounting firm shall treat all Tax Returns of the parties as confidential, and shall not reveal any information contained in, or any part of, the Tax Returns of one party to the other without prior written consent. The fees and expenses of the accounting firm shall be borne by the party proposing such amendment.
provided that
 
SECTION 3.04. All Tax Returns, and amendments thereto, described in this Article III shall be filed on a timely basis by the party responsible for filing such Tax Returns under this Agreement. Except as provided in this Section 3.04, Section 5.01(b) and Section 7.03, and except as otherwise required by a Final Determination, all Tax Returns, and amendments thereto, shall be prepared and filed in a manner consistent with the provisions of this TMA, the Tax Ruling Request, the Tax Ruling, and the Tax Opinion. If any Tax Return of a member of the Ashland Group or the New Ashland Inc. Group (including any Tax Return related to the Acquired Businesses) for any Pre-Closing Period or any Straddle Period is prepared and filed in a manner inconsistent with the elections (other than elections relating to carrybacks and carryforwards described in Section 4.01), accounting methods, conventions and principles of taxation used for the most recent taxable period of members of the Ashland Group or New Ashland Inc. Group, as the case may be, for which Tax Returns involving similar Tax Items have been filed, New Ashland Inc. and each member of the New Ashland Inc. Group shall indemnify each member of the Marathon Group against all Tax
Manner of Preparation and Filing.
 
Detriments and reductions in Tax Benefits that result from the failure to use a consistent position as provided in Section 2.01(a) of this TMA and shall pay to Marathon the amount of any resulting Tax Loss within 30 days of the date of that such Tax Loss is considered to arise under the principles of Section 4.01(c) below.
 
SECTION 3.05. (a) Subject to Section 8.02(c), Marathon, Ashland and HoldCo each hereby designates New Ashland Inc. as its agent to take any and all actions necessary or incidental to the preparation and filing by New Ashland Inc. of any Tax Return described in Section 3.01(a). In addition, Ashland and HoldCo agree that they shall designate 565 Corporation as the "substitute agent" (as such term is used in Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-77(d)) for the Ashland Affiliated Group. Marathon shall take any and all actions necessary or incidental to obtain the approval of such designation by the IRS.
Agent for Filing Tax Returns.
 
(b) Marathon shall be the "Tax Matters Partner" (as defined under Code Section 6231(a)(7)) of MAP for all Pre-Closing Periods and all Post-Closing Periods and shall manage the audits of MAP conducted by the IRS or any other Tax Authority.
 
SECTION 3.06. (a) To the extent that Marathon is responsible for filing Straddle Period or other Tax Returns that include Taxes for which New Ashland Inc. has indemnified Marathon, New Ashland Inc. shall pay to Marathon the amount of any such Taxes two days prior to the due date of the Tax Return. To the extent that New Ashland Inc. is responsible for filing Straddle Period or other Tax Returns that include Taxes for which Marathon has indemnified New Ashland Inc., Marathon shall pay to New Ashland Inc. the amount of any such Taxes two days prior to the due date of such Tax Return.
Payments And Refunds.
 
(b) At any time, either party in its sole discretion may make a payment to a Tax Authority with respect to Straddle Period Tax Return to stop the running of interest in whole or in part. The paying party shall provide the other party with a calculation and determination of the amount of non-paying party's share of such payment and the non-paying party shall pay such amount to the paying party within two days after receipt of such notice.
 
(c) To the extent that Marathon receives a Refund of Taxes for which New Ashland Inc. has indemnified Marathon, Marathon shall pay to New Ashland Inc. the amount of such Refund (including any interest received by Marathon) within ten days. To the extent that New Ashland Inc. receives a Refund of Taxes for which Marathon has indemnified New Ashland Inc., New Ashland Inc. shall pay to Marathon the amount of such Refund (including any interest received by New Ashland Inc.) within ten days.
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01. (a) To the extent permissible by the applicable Tax law, Marathon shall cause each member of the
Carrybacks and Carryforwards.
 
Marathon Group (including former members of the Ashland Group) not to carryback any Tax Item attributable to a Post-Closing Tax Period to a Pre-Closing Tax Period of a member of the Ashland Group or of the New Ashland Inc. Group. To the extent that Marathon is not permitted by applicable law to forgo such carryback and requests that New Ashland Inc. obtain a Refund of Tax with respect to such carryback, then New Ashland Inc. shall take all reasonable measures to obtain a Refund with respect to the carryback (including by filing an amended return) and shall pay to Marathon the Tax Savings realized by any member of the New Ashland Inc. Group by reason of such carryback, including any interest received thereon (provided, further, that the out-of-pocket costs associated with claiming any such carryback shall be borne by Marathon). To the extent that a carryback of a Tax Item attributable to a Post-Closing Tax Period to a Pre-Closing Tax Period of a member of the New Ashland Inc. Group (including a former member of the Ashland Group) results in a Tax Detriment to any member of the New Ashland Inc. Group (or former member of the Ashland Group), Marathon shall pay to New Ashland Inc. the Tax Loss realized by the New Ashland Inc. Group by reason of such carryback.
 
(b) To the extent permissible by the applicable Tax law, with respect to any Tax Item attributable to a Pre-Closing Tax Period that may be carried forward to a Post-Closing Tax Period of a member of the Marathon Group (including a former member of the Ashland Group), New Ashland Inc. shall cause each member of the New Ashland Inc. Group or of the Ashland Group to carry back any such Tax Item and not to carry forward any such Tax Item to such a Post-Closing Tax Period of a member of the Marathon Group (including a former member of the Ashland Group). To the extent that New Ashland Inc. is not permitted by applicable law to carry back such Tax Item or to forgo such carry forward of such Tax Item and requests that Marathon obtain a Refund, reduction or offset of Tax with respect to such carry forward, then Marathon shall take all reasonable measures to obtain such a Refund, reduction or offset with respect to the carry forward (including by filing an amended return) and shall pay to New Ashland Inc. the Tax Savings realized by any member of the Marathon Group by reason of such carry forward, including any interest received thereon (provided, further, that the out-of-pocket costs associated with claiming any such carryforward shall be borne by New Ashland Inc.). To the extent that a carry forward of a Tax Item, including without limitation, a foreign oil extraction loss as defined in Code Section 907(c), attributable to a Pre-Closing Tax Period to a Post-Closing Tax Period of a member of the Marathon Group (including a former member of the Ashland Group) results in a Tax Detriment to any member of the Marathon Group, New Ashland Inc. shall pay to Marathon the Tax Loss realized by the Marathon Group by reason of such carry forward.
 
(c) A party shall be considered to realize a Tax Savings with respect to a Tax Benefit, or a Tax Loss with respect to a Tax Detriment, to the extent, and only to the extent, that the amount of Taxes it is actually required to pay to the applicable Tax Authority for a taxable period is decreased or increased (respectively) from the amount of Taxes it would have actually been required to pay to such Tax Authority for such taxable period in the absence of such Tax Benefit or Tax Detriment. Such Tax Savings or Tax Loss shall be considered to arise at the time that such party's decreased or increased payment (respectively) for such taxable period is first due or otherwise actually realized
 
as a change in the amount of Tax or Refund, reductions or credit of Tax then due and payable. If any party is considered under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section 4.01 to realize a Tax Savings for which it is required to make a payment, or Tax Loss with respect to which the other party is required to make a payment, the party required to make such payment shall make such payment within 30 days of the date such Tax Savings or Tax Loss is considered to arise.
 
(d) For purposes of this Section 4.01, a Tax Item is deemed to be attributable to the taxable period in which it first accrued or was otherwise taken into account for Tax purposes. For the avoidance of doubt, a net operating loss, foreign tax credit or similar Tax Item is deemed to be attributable to the taxable period in which the loss, foreign tax or equivalent event giving rise to such Tax Item first accrued or was otherwise taken into account for Tax purposes.
 
SECTION 4.02. Ashland and Marathon Company shall execute and deliver an amendment to the MAP LLC Agreement, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, that shall specially allocate to Marathon Company any Pass-Through Items that would be allocable to New Ashland Inc. in the absence of such amendment and that are attributable to a payment that is (1) described in Section 12.01(d)(vii) of the Master Agreement, which results in a special non-pro rata distribution to Ashland, or (2) made with respect to the St. Paul Park QQQ Project or the Plains Settlement (as both are described in Section 9.09 of the Master Agreement). If any such payment produces a Tax Benefit for any member of the New Ashland Inc. Group, then New Ashland Inc. shall pay to Marathon the amount of any resulting Tax Savings actually realized by such member of the New Ashland Inc. Group within 30 days of the date that such Tax Savings is realized. Such Tax Savings shall be considered to be realized by a member of the New Ashland Inc. Group or the Marathon Group, as the case may be, pursuant to the principles of Section 4.01(c) above.
Special Allocation of Certain Deductions.
 
SECTION 4.03. If as a result of a Final Determination with respect to whether certain refinery assets contributed by Ashland to MAP are considered to be asset class 13.3 (Petroleum Refining) or 28.0 (Manufacture of Chemicals and Allied Products), New Ashland Inc. pays any additional Tax with respect to a Pre-Closing Tax Period, and such Final Determination results in the increase in the adjusted Tax basis as of the date of such contribution of any asset or property of MAP that was contributed by Ashland to MAP, Marathon shall cause MAP to take depreciation deductions with respect to such additional Tax basis to the maximum extent allowed, and as promptly as permitted, by applicable law, which shall include Marathon causing MAP to amend any relevant Tax Return of MAP. Marathon shall pay to New Ashland Inc. the amount of any Tax Savings realized by a member of the Marathon Group as a result of the use of such additional Tax basis within 30 days of the date that such Tax Savings is realized under the principles of Section 4.01(c) above.
Increase in Tax Basis of Certain MAP Deductions for Post-Closing Payments.
 
 
 
SECTION 5.01. (a) The parties will request the IRS to issue a private letter ruling holding that New Ashland Inc. is entitled to claim the Specified Liability Deductions. If the IRS issues such a private letter ruling, the Specified Liability Deductions shall be claimed by New Ashland Inc. on the New Ashland Inc. Affiliated Group's consolidated Federal income tax return and not by Marathon or any member of the Marathon Group.
Deduction of Specified Liability Deductions.
Request for Tax Ruling.
 
(b) If the IRS is unwilling to issue the ruling described in Section 5.01(a) above, the parties will request the IRS to issue a private letter ruling holding that HoldCo (which shall include for purposes of this Article V Marathon or any member of the Marathon Affiliated Group that is the "acquiring corporation" of HoldCo in the Acquisition Merger within the meaning of Code Section 381(a)) is entitled to claim the Specified Liability Deductions under the Net Deduction Method and that the use of the Specified Liability Deductions by HoldCo is not limited under Code Sections 382, 384 or Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-15 (the "Alternative Ruling"). If the IRS issues the Alternative Ruling, the Specified Liability Deductions shall be claimed by HoldCo on the Marathon Affiliated Group's consolidated Federal income tax return for each taxable period in which the Alternative Ruling is in effect and not by New Ashland Inc. or any member of the New Ashland Inc. Group, except as otherwise provided in Section 5.01(c) below. The amount of the Specified Liability Deductions claimed by Marathon shall be determined under the Net Deduction Method unless the parties agree in writing that a different method should be used or unless there is a Final Determination requiring a different method. Unless explicitly provided to the contrary in this Article V, Marathon shall retain full control over all Tax Items on its Tax Returns.
Request for Alternative IRS Ruling.
 
(c) (i) If the IRS issues the Alternative Ruling, the parties will use their commercially reasonable best efforts to initiate a judicial proceeding (and any necessary administrative proceedings) to obtain a Final Determination that New Ashland Inc. is entitled to claim the Specified Liability Deductions; that the parties shall not initiate such a judicial proceeding unless and until they have entered into the agreement described in Section 5.01(c)(ii) below; that the parties shall not initiate such a judicial proceeding if either New Ashland Inc. or Marathon determines, in its good faith judgment, that it is reasonably possible that such a proceeding may result in adverse consequences to New Ashland Inc. or Marathon, respectively. Possible adverse consequences include but are not limited to causing the Tax Ruling not to be binding on the IRS; credit risk; possible impairment of the reputation of either party; and possible impairment of the relationship between either party and the IRS. The parties expect that any such proceeding shall be initiated by an amended return filed by New Ashland Inc. claiming the Specified Liability Deductions and requesting a Refund of Tax based on that claim and, if the IRS does not timely grant that Refund, a lawsuit filed by New Ashland
Litigation in the Event of Alternative IRS Ruling.
provided, however,
and provided further
 
Inc. in the appropriate Federal court (as determined by New Ashland Inc. in its sole reasonable discretion) seeking such Refund.
 
(ii) Before initiating such a proceeding, the parties shall negotiate in good faith to attempt to reach and enter into an agreement specifying the appropriate actions, if any, to be taken by the Marathon Affiliated Group with respect to its claim of such Specified Liability Deductions for such taxable years, and the recomputation and possible reversal of any Tax Benefit Payments made by Marathon with respect to such taxable years. The goals of such negotiation shall be to preserve the Tax Benefits of the Specified Liability Deductions for all relevant taxable years in a manner that is consistent with such Final Determination, the Tax Ruling and the economic arrangements described in this Article V, and that keeps Marathon whole for any assessments of Tax resulting from such Final Determination without subjecting Marathon to any significant incremental credit risk. If agreement is reached, the parties shall execute an agreement binding on both parties.
 
(iii) If such a proceeding results in a Final Determination that New Ashland Inc. is entitled to claim the Specified Liability Deductions, then New Ashland Inc. shall claim the Specified Liability Deductions on the New Ashland Inc. Affiliated Group's consolidated Federal income tax returns that are due on or after the date of such Final Determination and neither Marathon nor any member of the Marathon Group shall claim such deductions on returns filed after such date. New Ashland Inc. shall be entitled to claim Specified Liability Deductions for prior years only to the extent provided in the agreement described in Section 5.01(c)(ii) above.
 
SECTION 5.02 (a) (i) If the IRS issues the Alternative Ruling, then for each taxable year for which HoldCo claims the Specified Liability Deductions it shall make a payment to New Ashland Inc. in respect of the Federal Tax Benefits attributable to such Specified Liability Deductions (the "Federal Tax Benefit Payment") and one or more payments to New Ashland Inc. in respect of the state, local or foreign Tax Benefits attributable to such Specified Liability Deductions (the "Non-Federal Tax Benefit Payment" and, together with the Federal Tax Benefit Payment, the "Tax Benefit Payments").
Tax Benefit Payments from Marathon to New Ashland Inc.
 
(ii) The Federal Tax Benefit Payment for a taxable year shall equal the sum of the Basket One Amount and the Basket Two Amount for such taxable year. The Non-Federal Tax Benefit Payment for a taxable year shall be determined with respect to the entire amount of Specified Liability Deductions for such taxable year on a "with and without" basis under the methodology and principles applicable solely to the Basket Two Amount, with appropriate adjustments to reflect the differences between the Code and the applicable Tax law for such purpose, and there shall be no Basket One Amount or Basket One Deductions for such purpose. For purposes of calculating the Tax Benefit Payments, the amount of the Specified Liability Deductions shall be determined using the Net Deduction Method unless the parties agree in writing that a different method should be used or unless there is a Final Determination requiring a different method.
 
(iii) The Tax Benefit Payments shall be paid directly to New Ashland Inc. or placed in escrow as provided in Article VI below.
 
(b) (i) For each taxable year of HoldCo ending on or before January 1, 2025, the Basket One Amount shall equal the Basket One Tax Rate multiplied by the Basket One Deductions for such taxable year. For each taxable year ending on or after January 1, 2025, the Basket One Amount, and the Basket One Deductions, shall be $0.00.
Basket One Amount.
 
(ii)
Definitions.
 
(A) The Basket One Tax Rate for a taxable year shall equal the highest marginal Federal income tax rate applicable to corporations for such taxable year minus 3 percentage points. As of the date of this TMA, the Basket One Tax Rate is 32% (35%  currently the highest marginal Federal income tax rate applicable to corporations (Section 11 of the Code)  minus 3 percentage points).
 
(B) The Basket One Deductions for a taxable year shall equal the lesser of (I) the Specified Liability Deductions for such taxable year and (II) the Basket One Cap for such taxable year.
 
(C) The Basket One Cap for a taxable year shall equal (I) $30 million adjusted by the Inflation Factor, but in no event more than $60 million (the "Basket One Cap Base Amount"), plus (II) the unused Basket One Cap Carryforward, if any, from each of the two preceding taxable years. The Basket One Cap Carryforward originating in a taxable year shall equal the excess, if any, of the Basket One Cap Base Amount for such taxable year over the Specified Liability Deductions for such taxable year. Specified Liability Deductions for a taxable year shall be considered to be used first against, and to the extent of, the Basket One Cap Base Amount for such taxable year. For purposes of determining the amount of the Basket One Cap Carryforward "used" in a particular taxable year, the excess, if any, of the Specified Liability Deductions for that taxable year over the Basket One Cap Base Amount for such taxable year shall be considered to be used first against, and the extent of, the Basket One Cap Carryforward originating in the second preceding taxable year; and next against, and to the extent of, the Basket One Cap Carryforward originating in the immediately preceding taxable year.
 
(c) (i) The Basket Two Amount for a taxable year shall be determined on a "with and without" basis to measure the actual Tax savings realized by the Marathon Affiliated Group from its use of Basket Two Deductions and Basket Two Carryovers, and shall equal the excess (if any) of (A) the amount of Federal income tax that the Marathon Affiliated Group would have been required to pay with respect to such taxable year if there were no Basket Two Deductions for, and no Basket Two Carryovers to, such taxable year over (B) the amount of Federal income tax that the Marathon Affiliated Group was actually required to pay with respect to such taxable year.
Basket Two Amount.
 
(ii)
Definitions.
 
(A) The Basket Two Deductions for a taxable year shall equal the excess, if any, of (I) the total Specified Liability Deductions for such taxable year over (II) the Basket One Deductions for such taxable year.
 
(B) The Basket Two Carryovers to a taxable year shall equal the amount of Basket Two Carryovers originating in other taxable years and carried forward or carried back to such taxable year. The Basket Two Carryovers originating in a taxable year are the carryovers of net operating losses, excess foreign tax credits, minimum tax credits or other Tax Items of the Marathon Affiliated Group, if any, that originate in such year under the principles of the Code, but only to the extent such carryovers are greater than the amount of such carryovers that would have originated in such taxable year if the Marathon Affiliated Group had no Basket Two Deductions for such taxable year and no Basket Two Carryovers to such taxable year. Carryovers of all Tax Items shall be considered to be subject to the rules of the Internal Revenue Code and the Treasury Regulations governing the carry forward, carryback, use, limitation and expiration of carryovers of the relevant type of Tax Item. If the carryover of a Tax Item originating in a taxable year includes a portion that is a Basket Two Carryover and another portion that is not a Basket Two Carryover, such portions shall be considered to be used on a "with and without basis" as described in Section 5.02(c)(i) above.
 
(d) The Basket One Amount for a taxable year, once determined, shall not be redetermined for any reason other than an adjustment in the amount of the Specified Liability Deductions for such taxable year resulting from a Tax Claim with respect to the New Ashland Inc. Affiliated Group or the Marathon Affiliated Group by a Tax Authority. The Basket Two Amount for a taxable year shall be redetermined at appropriate times (, payment, refund, or Final Determination), taking into account actual adjustments with respect to Tax Claims and subsequent events that affect the calculation of the Basket Two Amount, including carry forwards and carrybacks. Payments of the increased or decreased amount of any Tax Benefit Payments for any taxable year shall be made as provided in Article VI below.
Redeterminations.
e.g.
 
(e) For each taxable year, unless Marathon and New Ashland Inc. otherwise agree, New Ashland Inc. at its own expense will cause a nationally recognized accounting firm to prepare and deliver to Marathon a certificate, in a form acceptable to Marathon, verifying the amount and deductibility of the Specified Liability Deductions for such taxable year (taking into account any issues raised by the IRS from time to time). New Ashland Inc. will at its own expense provide to Marathon a written opinion of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP or any other law firm acceptable to Marathon, which opinion shall be addressed to New Ashland Inc. and may rely on the Alternative Ruling, to the effect that Marathon will be entitled to deduct the Specified Liability Deductions on its Tax Return. Such opinion shall be updated or amended, from time to time, as Marathon may reasonably request to take into account material changes in facts or in law. For each taxable year, unless Marathon and New Ashland Inc. otherwise agree, Marathon at its own expense will cause a nationally
Verification by Accounting Firm.
 
recognized accounting firm to prepare and deliver to New Ashland Inc. a certificate verifying the amount of Tax Benefit Payments for such taxable year, no such verification shall be required with respect to Non-Federal Tax Benefit Payments with respect to any jurisdiction in which the Tax liability of Marathon and the other members of the Marathon Group for such taxable year is less than $500,000 unless New Ashland Inc. agrees to bear the cost of such verification.
provided that
 
(f) (i) The parties have set forth the examples in Exhibit B attached hereto to illustrate the application of this Article V and of Article VI below. The parties have also agreed that Tax Benefit Payments in respect of the Basket One Amount shall be payable without regard to whether Marathon or any member of the Marathon Group realizes an actual Tax savings from the use of the Basket One Deductions; that Tax Benefit Payments in respect of the Basket Two Amount shall be payable only to the extent that the Marathon Affiliated Group realizes an actual Tax savings from the use of the Basket Two Deductions on a "with and without" basis; and that any Specified Liability Deduction shall potentially give rise to a single Basket One Amount or Basket Two Amount and shall not be double-counted. Any uncertainties or ambiguities in the computation of the Tax Benefit Payments for any taxable year shall be resolved in a manner that is consistent with the examples in Exhibit B and with such principles.
Principles and Examples.
 
(ii) The provisions of Article V and Article VI are based on taxable years of twelve full months. The application of such provisions shall be appropriately adjusted in the event of one or more taxable years of less than 12 months to effectuate the goals and principles of Article V and Article VI.
Short Taxable Years.
 
(iii) In the event that there is a successor to the New Ashland Inc. Affiliated Group or the Marathon Affiliated Group, the provisions of this Article V shall be applied to such successors as if they were the New Ashland Inc. Affiliated Group or the Marathon Affiliated Group, respectively.
Successors.
 
 
 
SECTION 6.01 (a) Subject to Section 6.02 below, Marathon shall pay to New Ashland Inc. or place in Escrow, as the case may be, the amount of the Tax Benefit Payment as follows:
Time of Tax Benefit Payments.
Original Payments.
 
(i) If New Ashland Inc. provides to Marathon a good faith estimate of the amount of the Specified Liability Deductions for a calendar year by November 30th of such year, and verification of the Specified Liability Deductions as required in Section 5.02(e) for such calendar year by February 28th of the following year, then Marathon shall pay to New Ashland Inc. or Escrow, as the case may be, the amount of the Federal Tax Benefit Payment for the taxable year corresponding to
Federal Tax Benefit Payments.
 
such calendar year either (A) within 10 days after the due date of the Marathon corporate income Tax Return without extensions for such taxable year (generally March 15th), or (B) within 10 days after the due date of the corporate income Tax Return for the Marathon Affiliated Group, with extensions for such calendar year (generally September 15th), with interest from the due date of such Tax Return without extension to the date of payment at the Marathon short-term borrowing rate for the applicable period. If New Ashland Inc. does not provide to Marathon the estimate and the actual determination of the Specified Liability Deductions within the time requirements of the preceding sentence, then Marathon shall pay to New Ashland Inc. or Escrow, as the case may be, the amount of the Federal Tax Benefit Payment for such taxable year within 10 days of the later of (A) the date on which New Ashland Inc. provides such determination to Marathon and (B) the due date of the Federal corporate income Tax Return for the Marathon Affiliated Group, with extensions for such taxable year (generally September 15th), in each case without interest.
 
(ii) Marathon shall pay to New Ashland Inc. or Escrow, as the case may be, in each case without interest, the amount of the Non-Federal Tax Benefit Payments for a taxable year within 30 days after the due date of the relevant HoldCo separate or combined, as the case may be, state, local or foreign Tax Returns, with extensions.
Non-Federal Tax Benefit Payments.
 
(b) If an event giving rise to the redetermination of a Tax Benefit Payment for any taxable year occurs as provided in Section 5.02(d) above, the party becoming aware of such event shall promptly notify the other party.
Redeterminations.
 
(i) If such redetermination increases the amount of such Tax Benefit Payment, then within 30 days after the receipt by Marathon of a Refund corresponding to such Tax Benefit Payment, or, if there is no such Refund, then within 30 days after such redetermination, Marathon shall pay to New Ashland Inc. or Escrow, as the case may be, the amount of such increase, together with the corresponding amount of interest (if any) payable by the relevant Tax Authority with respect to such redetermination.
 
(ii) If such redetermination decreases the amount of such Tax Benefit Payment, then, within 30 days after the payment by Marathon of the Tax corresponding to such redetermination, or, if there is no such Tax payment, then within 30 days after such redetermination, the amount of such decrease (including any interest, penalty or addition to Tax resulting from such redetermination) shall be paid to Marathon as provided in this Section 6.01(b)(ii). Such decrease shall be paid first by paying to Marathon amounts in Escrow up to the amount of such decrease (and all future payments to New Ashland Inc. under this TMA for the current taxable year and subsequent taxable years shall be escrowed until the Escrow is Fully Funded, as provided in Section 6.02(c) below). If such decrease exceeds the amount so paid to Marathon from the Escrow, New Ashland Inc. shall pay such excess to Marathon; if the total amount that New Ashland Inc. would be required to pay to Marathon in a particular calendar year under this Section 6.01(b)(ii) as a result of any and all redeterminations exceeds $25 million, then New Ashland Inc. may pay such excess over $25 million in eight equal semi-annual payments, with the first payment due six months from the date of such
provided that
 
redetermination, with interest computed at an interest rate as reasonably determined by Marathon to be the market rate for four-year amortizing loans available to companies with credit ratings similar to that of New Ashland Inc.; if New Ashland Inc. undergoes a Bankruptcy Event, all such amounts shall be immediately due and payable to Marathon.
provided further that
 
SECTION 6.02 (a) In the event that any Tax Benefit Payments are required under this Agreement to be placed in Escrow, the parties will execute an Escrow Agreement in the form as to be agreed to by the parties and attached hereto as Exhibit C to this TMA. Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, The Bank of New York shall serve as escrow agent under the Escrow Agreement. The out-of-pocket costs and expenses of creating and maintaining the Escrow, including the fees of the escrow agent, shall be shared equally by Marathon and New Ashland Inc.
Escrow.
Escrow Agreement.
 
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6.02(b), all Tax Benefit Payments in respect of Basket One Amounts shall be paid by Marathon directly to New Ashland Inc. and shall not be placed in Escrow. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tax Benefit Payments in respect of Basket One Amounts shall be placed in Escrow in the following circumstances:
Basket One Benefits.
 
(i) If New Ashland Inc. has undergone a Bankruptcy Event, all Tax Benefit Payments in respect of Basket One Amounts otherwise payable by Marathon to New Ashland Inc. on or after the date of such Bankruptcy Event shall be placed in Escrow as if they were in respect of Basket Two Amounts until such time that any judgment, order, proceeding or petition that constitutes a Bankruptcy Event has been dismissed or discharged.
 
(ii) In the circumstances described in Section 6.02(d) below.
 
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6.02(c) all Tax Benefit Payments in respect of Basket Two Amounts shall be paid by Marathon directly to New Ashland Inc. and shall not be placed in Escrow. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tax Benefit Payments in respect of Basket Two Amounts shall be placed in Escrow in the following circumstances:
Basket Two Benefits.
 
(i) If the Escrow is not Fully Funded at the time that such a Tax Benefit Payment for a taxable year is required to be made, then the amount of such Tax Benefit Payment necessary to cause the Escrow to be Fully Funded shall be placed in Escrow.
 
(A) The Escrow shall be considered to be Fully Funded at the time a Tax Benefit Payment for a taxable year is required to be made if the amount in the Escrow at such time is equal to the excess (if any) of (I) the total amount of Tax Benefit Payments other than Basket One Amounts paid or payable for such taxable year and the four preceding taxable years over (II) the Escrow Threshold at such time.
 
(B) If New Ashland Inc. has a credit rating provided by Moody's or Standard & Poor (or successors thereto) at the relevant time, the Escrow Threshold at any time shall equal:
 
 
 
 
 
(C) If, at the time any Tax Benefit Payment for a taxable year is required to be made, New Ashland Inc. does not have a credit rating provided by Moody's or Standard & Poor (or successors thereto), New Ashland Inc. will obtain, at its own cost, from Moody's or Standard & Poor, or both, a pro forma credit rating and provide such rating to Marathon prior to the time of such Tax Benefit Payment. Such rating will be updated at least annually.
 
(ii) In the circumstances described in Section 6.02(d) below.
 
(d) If the Escrow Threshold decreases as a result of a reduction in the credit rating of New Ashland Inc., the occurrence of a Bankruptcy Event with respect to New Ashland Inc. or the payment of Escrowed funds to Marathon in respect of a redetermination of a Tax Benefit Payment as provided in Section 6.01(b) above, and as a result the Escrow is not Fully Funded, then all payments to New Ashland Inc. under this TMA, net of set-off, including all Tax Benefit Payments in respect of Basket One Amounts and Basket Two Amounts, shall be placed in Escrow until the Escrow is Fully Funded.
Certain Changes in Escrow Threshold.
 
(e) Except as provided in Section 6.02(d) above, any amounts placed in Escrow in respect of a Tax Benefit Payment for a taxable year shall be released from Escrow upon the fifth anniversary of the filing of the corporate income Tax Return for the Marathon Affiliated Group for such taxable year and shall be paid directly to New Ashland Inc. If, as a result of an upgrade in New Ashland Inc.'s credit rating or any other event, the amount in the Escrow exceeds the amount required to cause the Escrow to be Fully Funded, then the amount of such
Release of Escrowed Amounts.
 
excess shall be promptly released from the Escrow and paid directly to New Ashland Inc. Whenever Escrowed Amounts are required to be released to New Ashland Inc. pursuant to this Section 6.02(e), Marathon and New Ashland Inc. shall promptly deliver to the escrow agent detailed written instructions directing the release of such Escrowed Amounts, signed on behalf of both Marathon and New Ashland Inc.
 
(f) The Escrow arrangements described in this Section 6.02 may be replaced with other credit support reasonably acceptable to and approved by Marathon, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Other Arrangements.
 
 
 
SECTION 7.01. Ashland and New Ashland Inc., jointly and severally, represent and warrant to Marathon that, as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on the Closing Date:
Representations and Warranties of Ashland and New Ashland Inc.
 
(a) It knows of no fact that could reasonably be expected to cause any representation, warranty or other statement contained in the Tax Ruling Request, the Tax Ruling, a Tax Certificate or the Tax Opinion to be incorrect (including by omission of a material fact).
 
(b) No member of the New Ashland Inc. Group has any current plan or intention to take any action, or fail to take any action, that would be inconsistent with any representation, warranty or other statement made by, or that relates primarily to, any member of the New Ashland Inc. Group and is contained in the Tax Ruling Request, the Tax Ruling, a Tax Certificate or the Tax Opinion.
 
(c) New Ashland Inc. will use its reasonable best efforts, with the assistance and participation of Marathon, to have at least $25 million dollars on deposit, decreased for any amounts applied against Taxes for Pre-Closing Tax Periods (other than Federal Income Taxes shown as owing on any Tax Returns for the Ashland Affiliated Group's 2003, 2004 and 2005 fiscal years), with the IRS with respect to liabilities for Taxes for Pre-Closing Tax Periods (including interest on such amounts). This amount shall be used (to the extent necessary) for the payment or settlement of such Taxes and interest and shall not be withdrawn prior to a Final Determination with respect to such Taxes and interest. Any portion of such deposit that is not used for the payment or settlement of Taxes for such periods (including interest on such amounts) shall be paid to New Ashland Inc.
 
(d) Following the Transactions, New Ashland Inc. intends to continue the active conduct of Valvoline, independently and with its separate officers, directors, and employees, and New Ashland Inc. does not plan any substantial reduction in business activity of Valvoline.
 
SECTION 7.02. Marathon represents and warrants to Ashland and New Ashland Inc. that, as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on the Closing Date:
Representations and Warranties of Marathon.
 
(a) It knows of no fact that could reasonably be expected to cause any representation, warranty or other statement contained in the Tax Ruling Request, the Tax Ruling, a Tax Certificate or the Tax Opinion to be incorrect (including by omission of a material fact).
 
(b) No current member of the Marathon Group has any current plan or intention to take any action, or fail to take any action, that would be inconsistent with any representation, warranty or other statement made by, or that relates primarily to, any member of the Marathon Group and is contained in the Tax Ruling Request, the Tax Ruling, a Tax Certificate or the Tax Opinion.
 
(c) For the two-year period following the Transactions, Marathon intends to continue the active conduct of the Acquired Businesses, independently and, except as described in the Tax Ruling Request, with their separate officers, directors and employees, and Marathon does not plan any substantial reduction in business activity for the Acquired Businesses during such period.
 
SECTION 7.03. (a) (i) Each of Ashland and New Ashland Inc. agrees that it shall not take or omit to take, and shall not permit any of the Ashland Group or the New Ashland Inc. Group, respectively, to take or omit to take, any action that will, or would reasonably be expected to, cause any written representation contained in the Tax Ruling Request, Tax Ruling, a Tax Certificate or the Tax Opinion to be incorrect.
Covenants of New Ashland Inc. and Marathon.
 
(ii) Each of Ashland and New Ashland Inc. agrees that it shall, and shall cause each member of the Ashland Group and the New Ashland Inc. Group, respectively, to prepare and file all Tax Returns on a basis consistent with the Tax Ruling and the Tax Opinion, except as otherwise required by Article V or a Final Determination; , to the extent that the Tax Ruling and the Tax Opinion are inconsistent in any respect, such Tax Returns shall be prepared and filed on a basis consistent with the Tax Ruling.
provided that
 
(iii) New Ashland Inc. will use its reasonable best efforts, with the assistance and participation of Marathon, to maintain at least $25 million dollars, decreased for any amounts applied against Taxes for Pre-Closing Tax Periods (other than Federal Income Taxes shown as owing on any Tax Returns for the Ashland Affiliated Group's 2003, 2004 and 2005 fiscal years), on deposit with the IRS for Taxes for Pre-Closing Tax Periods (including interest on such amounts). This amount shall be used (to the extent necessary) for the payment or settlement of such Taxes and interest and shall not be withdrawn prior to a Final Determination with respect to such Taxes and interest. Any portion of such deposit that is not used for the payment or settlement of Taxes for such periods (including interest on such amounts) shall be paid to New Ashland Inc.
 
(b) (i) Marathon agrees that, for a period beginning on the Closing Date and ending two years after the Closing Date, it shall not take or omit to take, and shall not permit any member of the Marathon Group to take or omit to take, any action that will, or would reasonably be expected to, cause any written representation contained in the Tax Ruling Request, Tax Ruling, or a Tax Certificate, and that is specified on Schedule 2.04 attached hereto, to be incorrect.
 
(ii) Marathon agrees that it shall, and shall cause each member of the Marathon Group to, prepare and file all Tax Returns on a basis consistent with the Tax Ruling and the Tax Opinion, except as otherwise required by Article V or a Final Determination; , to the extent that the Tax Ruling and the Tax Opinion are inconsistent in any respect, such Tax Returns shall be prepared and filed on a basis consistent with the Tax Ruling.
provided that
 
(iii) Marathon agrees that, for a period beginning on the Closing Date and ending two years after the Closing Date, it (A) shall not, and shall cause each member of the Marathon Group not to, amend the Company Leverage Policy set forth in Schedule 8.14 to the MAP LLC Agreement, as such Policy is amended and restated as of March 18, 2004 and (B) shall cause MAP to comply at all times with such Company Leverage Policy; provided that, Marathon may amend the Company Leverage Policy to the extent that both Marathon and New Ashland Inc. reasonably agree is consistent with the Tax Ruling.
 
(iv) Marathon agrees that, for a period beginning on the Closing Date and ending two years after the Closing Date, it shall not, and shall cause each member of the Marathon Group not to, make any capital contribution of money or other property to MAP or any JV Entity (including any capital contribution pursuant to Article IV of the MAP LLC Agreement or any other provision of the MAP LLC Agreement) other than capital contributions (i) that are the result of, and in response to, Extraordinary Events; or (ii) if the Tax Ruling includes a ruling that the MAP Partial Redemption does not constitute a disguised sale, capital contributions for purposes specifically identified in the Tax Ruling or the Tax Ruling Request.
 
(v) During the period beginning on October 1, 2004 (or, if earlier, the day before the Closing Date) and ending on the date two years after the Closing Date, Marathon shall cause MAP and its subsidiaries not to, and MAP and its subsidiaries shall not (A) incur any indebtedness owed to Marathon or any affiliate of Marathon or (B) incur any indebtedness under one or more revolving credit facilities, uncommitted money market credit facilities or other comparable debt facilities to the extent such indebtedness is guaranteed, directly or indirectly, by Marathon or any affiliate of Marathon (other than such an affiliate that is MAP or any wholly-owned subsidiary of MAP), except such Marathon guaranteed debt will be permissible if the Tax Ruling includes a ruling that the MAP Partial Redemption does not constitute a disguised sale and such ruling or the Tax Ruling Request contemplates debt guaranteed by Marathon.
 
(vi) Marathon agrees that during the two-year period beginning on the Closing Date, it shall cause MAP not to make any sales of receivables except for sales of
 
receivables pursuant to the Receivables Sales Facility (as such term is defined in the MAP LLC Agreement). Marathon and MAP agree that if MAP makes any sales of receivables pursuant to the Receivables Sales Facility they will treat such sales (A) as sales for Federal income tax purposes and (B) based on the relevant accounting pronouncements, as they exist on the date of this Agreement, as sales for financial accounting purposes. If as a result of any change or modification to such accounting pronouncements between the date of this Agreement and the Closing Date, Marathon concludes that it and MAP will not be able to treat such sales of receivables as sales for financial accounting purposes, it shall cause MAP to use its reasonable best efforts to modify the Receivables Sales Facility in order to achieve sale treatment for financial accounting purposes, if such modification can be made in a manner that is (i) acceptable to Marathon from a tax point of view and otherwise reasonably acceptable to Marathon, and (ii) acceptable to Ashland from a tax point of view. If such a change in accounting pronouncements arises and Marathon, after discussions with Ashland, concludes that it cannot so modify the Receivables Sales Facility, Marathon shall deliver a written notice to Ashland attesting to this conclusion at least two business days prior to the Closing Date. The failure of Marathon to deliver such written notice shall constitute its agreement to the second sentence of this paragraph (vi) notwithstanding any such change in accounting pronouncements. Marathon further agrees that if the relevant accounting pronouncements change after the Closing Date and, as a result of such changes, Marathon concludes that it and MAP will not be able to treat sales of receivables pursuant to the Receivables Sales Facility as sales for financial accounting purposes, Marathon shall cause MAP to modify the Receivables Sales Facility in order to achieve sale treatment for financial accounting purposes if it can do so at an insignificant cost (provided that such modification is acceptable to New Ashland Inc. from a tax point of view) or if New Ashland Inc. agrees to indemnify Marathon and MAP for any increased costs that result from such changes.
 
SECTION 7.04. Each of Ashland and Marathon shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause Deloitte & Touche LLP to deliver to Ashland and Marathon, no later than July 15, 2004, a report, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to each of Ashland and Marathon and consistent with the Engagement Letter dated as of November 24, 2003, among Ashland, Marathon and Deloitte & Touche LLP. Each of Ashland and Marathon shall, and shall cause each of its affiliates (including MAP) to, cooperate with Deloitte & Touche LLP in connection with the preparation of such report, which cooperation shall include the provision of any relevant books, records, documentation and other information and the making available of its employees and facilities as Deloitte & Touche LLP may reasonably request.
Valuation Report.
 
SECTION 7.05. (a) Each of Marathon and New Ashland Inc. shall, and shall cause each of its affiliates to, cooperate fully with all reasonable requests from the other party in all matters relating to Taxes covered by this Agreement, including without limitation, in connection with the preparation and filing of Tax Returns, any amendments or claims for Refund with respect thereto, the conduct and resolution of Tax Claims and the implementation of this TMA (including, without limitation, the provisions of Articles V and VI). Such cooperation shall include (i) provision on a mutually convenient basis upon reasonable request of Tax
Cooperation and Exchange of Information.
 
Returns, books, records (including information regarding ownership and Tax basis of property), documentation and other information related to such Tax Returns and Tax Claims, including accompanying schedules, related work papers, and documents related to rulings or other determinations by Tax Authorities, (ii) the execution of any document or the certification of any information that may be necessary or beneficial in connection with the filing of any Tax Returns or claims for Refund or the conduct or resolution of any Tax Claim, (iii) obtaining any document or information that is necessary or beneficial in connection with the foregoing, (iv) upon reasonable request, the making available of its employees and facilities on a reasonable and mutually convenient basis to facilitate the foregoing and (v) the reasonable good faith effort of New Ashland Inc. to provide to Marathon information reasonably requested by Marathon for the preparation of its published financial statements.
 
(b) Marathon and New Ashland Inc. shall meet regularly to review major issues with respect to Tax Claims and the status of audits with respect to Pre-Closing Periods and Straddle Periods as long as the relevant statute of limitations remains open with respect to any Pre-Closing Period or Straddle Period. New Ashland Inc. shall make available appropriate personnel to discuss the foregoing items and shall make available for inspection relevant documents relating to such audits.
 
SECTION 7.06. . Marathon and New Ashland Inc. agree that they will pursue a pre-filing agreement in accordance with Rev. Proc. 2001-22 (or any successor pronouncement), with respect to (i) the amount of gain, if any, realized by Marathon or the Ashland Group under Code Sections 751(b) and 355(e) as a result of the Transactions described in the Master Agreement and (ii) to the extent relevant in light of the Tax Ruling, whether HoldCo shall be deemed to have a "net unrealized built-in loss" within the meaning of Code Section 382(h)(3). Marathon and New Ashland Inc. shall (and shall cause their respective affiliates to) provide their reasonable cooperation and assistance in obtaining any such pre-filing agreement.
Pre-Filing Agreement
 
SECTION 7.07. New Ashland Inc. shall own, and have all rights, title and interest in, all books, records, documentation and other information in existence as of the Closing Date related to any Tax or Tax Item of Ashland or any of its subsidiaries. New Ashland Inc. agrees to retain all Tax Returns, related schedules and workpapers, and all other material records and other documents as required under Code Section 6001 and the regulations promulgated thereunder relating thereto existing on the date hereof or created through the Closing Date, until the expiration of the statute of limitations (including extensions) of the taxable years to which such Tax Returns and other documents relate and until the Final Determination of any payments which may be required in respect of such years under this TMA. New Ashland Inc. shall provide to Marathon copies of any such documentation or information in existence as of the Closing Date related to any Marathon Tax Matter or with respect to items that could result in a Tax Detriment to Marathon and, as reasonably requested by Marathon, in connection with any Tax Claim. New Ashland Inc. agrees that, if it intends to dispose of any such documentation or other information, it shall provide written notice to Marathon describing the documentation or other information to be disposed of 60 days prior to taking such action. Marathon shall be entitled to arrange
Ownership of Tax Records; Retention of Information.
 
to take delivery of the documentation or other information described in the notice at its expense during the succeeding 60-day period.
 
 
 
SECTION 8.01. The amount of any indemnification provided under this TMA, other then pursuant to Article V and VI, shall be (i) increased to take account of any net Tax Loss incurred by the indemnified party arising from the receipt of indemnity payments hereunder (grossed up for such increase) and (ii) reduced to take account of any net Tax Savings realized by the indemnified party arising from the incurrence or payment of any such indemnified loss. In computing the amount of any such Tax Loss or Tax Savings, the indemnified party shall be deemed to recognize all other Tax Items before recognizing any Tax Item arising from the receipt of any indemnity payment hereunder or the incurrence or payment of any indemnified loss.
Calculation of Losses.
 
SECTION 8.02. (a) (i) If a party (the "indemnified party") receives any written notice of deficiency, claim or adjustment or other written notice from a Tax Authority that may result in the indemnified party being entitled to any indemnification provided for under this Agreement in respect of, arising out of or involving an audit proceeding, audit inquiry, information request, suit, action, contest or similar claim made by any Tax Authority (a "Tax Claim") such indemnified party shall notify the indemnifying party in writing (and in reasonable detail) of the Tax Claim within 10 business days after such indemnified party receives notice or otherwise becomes aware of the existence of the Tax Claim; , , that failure to give such notification shall not affect the indemnification provided under this Agreement, except to the extent the indemnifying party shall have been materially and adversely prejudiced as a result of such failure. Thereafter, the indemnified party shall keep the indemnifying party apprised of the status of any investigation or audit and deliver to the indemnifying party, within five business days' time after the indemnified party's receipt thereof, copies of all notices and documents received by the indemnified party related to the Tax Claim. New Ashland Inc. undertakes and agrees that it will keep Marathon reasonably informed of the existence and progress of any audit or other proceeding that relates to a Pre-Closing Period with respect to which Marathon could be liable as a successor, under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-6, or otherwise.
Procedures.
Tax Claims.
provided
however
 
(ii) If any party receives a written notice from a Tax Authority that may result in an adjustment in the amount of the Specified Liability Deductions for a taxable year as a result of an audit of the New Ashland Inc. Affiliated Group or the Marathon Affiliated Group, then for purposes of this TMA, such audit and related proceeding, to the extent they concern the amount of the Specified Liability Deductions claimed or capable of being claimed by Marathon or the Marathon Group as successor to HoldCo, shall be treated as a Tax Claim with respect to which Marathon is the indemnified party and New Ashland Inc. is the indemnifying party, , , that the resolution of such issues shall not
provided
however
 
preclude Marathon from compromising or settling any other issues in its Tax Returns administratively with any Tax Authority and Marathon shall have the right to determine in its sole reasonable discretion the appropriate forum and location of any judicial proceeding with respect to Specified Liability Deductions.
 
(b) Except as provided in Section 8.02(c) of this TMA, if a Tax Claim is made against an indemnified party, the indemnifying party shall be entitled to participate in the defense thereof and, if it so chooses, to assume the defense thereof with professional advisors and counsel selected by the indemnifying party; , , that such professional advisors or counsel are not reasonably objected to by the indemnified party. Should the indemnifying party so elect to assume the defense of a Tax Claim, the indemnifying party shall not be liable to the indemnified party for any fees or expenses relating to such professional advisors or counsel subsequently incurred by the indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof. If the indemnifying party assumes such defense, the indemnified party shall have the right to participate in the defense thereof and to employ professional advisors and counsel (not reasonably objected to by the indemnifying party), at its own expense, separate from the professional advisors and counsel employed by the indemnifying party, it being understood that the indemnifying party shall control such defense. The indemnifying party shall be liable for the fees and expenses of professional advisors and counsel employed by the indemnified party for any period during which the indemnifying party has not assumed the defense thereof. If the indemnifying party chooses to defend or prosecute a Tax Claim, all the indemnified parties shall cooperate in the defense or prosecution thereof. Such cooperation shall include the retention and (upon the indemnifying party's request) the provision to the indemnifying party of records and information that are reasonably relevant to such Tax Claim, making employees available on a mutually convenient basis to provide additional information and explanation of any material provided hereunder, cooperating and assisting in the investigation, defense and resolution of such matters and providing legal and business assistance with respect to such matters. Whether or not the indemnifying party assumes the defense of a Tax Claim, the indemnified party shall not admit any liability with respect to, or settle, compromise or discharge, such Tax Claim without the indemnifying party's prior written consent. If the indemnifying party assumes the defense of a Tax Claim, the indemnified party shall agree to any settlement, compromise, or discharge of a Tax Claim that the indemnifying party may recommend and that by its terms obligates the indemnifying party to pay the full amount of the liability in connection with such Tax Claim; if such settlement, compromise or discharge imposes conditions, costs or other detriments (in addition to the liability in connection with such Tax Claim) upon the indemnified party, such indemnified party may use its reasonable judgment in determining whether to so agree, such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld.
Assumption.
provided
however
provided that
 
(c) If a party to this TMA suffers a Bankruptcy Event, then the party suffering the Bankruptcy Event (the "Bankruptcy Party") shall vigorously pursue the assertion, or defense (as the case may be) of all Tax Claims for which any other party to this TMA (the "Non-Bankruptcy Party") might be jointly and severally, directly or indirectly liable ("Bankruptcy Tax Claims") and the Non-Bankruptcy Party shall have the right to participate in the defense of any Bankruptcy
Joint rights and assumption of control.
 
Tax Claims and to employ professional advisors and counsel (not reasonably objected to by the Bankruptcy Party), at its own expense, separate from the professional advisors and counsel employed by the Bankruptcy Party, it being understood that the Bankruptcy Party shall control the defense of such claims. Both parties shall in good faith cooperate with one another and the Bankruptcy Party shall not unreasonably reject any suggestions made by the Non-Bankruptcy Party. Such cooperation shall include the retention and (upon the Non-Bankruptcy Party's request) the provision to the Non-Bankruptcy Party of records and information that are reasonably relevant to such Bankruptcy Tax Claims (including copies of all protests, pleadings, briefs, filings, correspondence and similar materials relative to such claims), making employees available on a mutually convenient basis to provide additional information and explanation of any material provided hereunder, cooperating and assisting in the investigation, defense and resolution of such matters, and providing legal and business assistance with respect to such matters. The preceding sentences of this Section 8.02(c) notwithstanding, if the Bankruptcy Party fails to vigorously pursue such Bankruptcy Tax Claims, or such Bankruptcy Party is discharged, or otherwise effectively barred from liability for such Bankruptcy Tax Claims, the Non-Bankruptcy Party shall have the right to assume full control over the defense of such Bankruptcy Tax Claims and, if such control is assumed, the Bankruptcy Party shall irrevocably designate, and agree to cause each of its affiliates to designate irrevocably, the Non-Bankruptcy Party as the sole and exclusive agent and attorney-in-fact to take any action as such Non-Bankruptcy Party may deem appropriate, necessary, or incidental in any and all matters relating to Pre-Closing Period Tax Claims of the Ashland Group and the Bankruptcy Party shall continue to cooperate fully in the defense or prosecution thereof, but it shall not have the right to participate in the proceedings.
 
(d) New Ashland Inc. and Marathon shall cooperate with each other with respect to resolving any claim or liability with respect to which one party is obligated to indemnify the other party hereunder, including by making reasonable efforts to mitigate or resolve any such claim or liability, which shall include claiming any indemnified loss as a deduction or offset on any relevant Tax Return (including any amended Tax Return). In the event that New Ashland Inc. or Marathon shall fail to make such reasonable efforts to mitigate or resolve any claim or liability, then notwithstanding anything else to the contrary contained herein, the other party shall not be required to indemnify any person for any indemnified loss that could reasonably be expected to have been avoided if New Ashland Inc. or Marathon, as the case may be, had made such efforts.
Mitigation.
 
SECTION 8.03. The parties agree that any indemnity payments made pursuant to this Agreement or pursuant to Article XIII of the Master Agreement shall be treated for all Tax purposes as distributions or capital contributions, as the case may be, between HoldCo and New Ashland Inc. made immediately prior to the Spinoff and, accordingly, not as taxable income to the recipient or as a deductible expense to the payor, unless otherwise required by a Final Determination.
Treatment of Indemnification Payments.
 
 
 
SECTION 9.01. In the event that Marathon or any member of the Marathon Group, as the case may be, on the one hand, and New Ashland Inc. or any member of the New Ashland Inc. Group, as the case may be, on the other hand, disagree as to the amount or calculation of any payment to be made under this TMA, or the interpretation or application of any provision under this TMA, the parties shall attempt in good faith to resolve such dispute. If such dispute is not resolved within sixty (60) business days following the commencement of the dispute, Marathon and New Ashland Inc. shall jointly retain a tax attorney who has retired from active practice in a nationally recognized law firm or independent public accounting firm, which firm is independent of both parties, or a retired Federal judge experienced in Tax Matters (the "Independent Entity"), to resolve the dispute. If the parties are unable to agree on an Independent Entity, then each party shall appoint a person who would qualify as an Independent Entity (but for the approval of the other party), and such persons shall then appoint a person who meets the above description as the Independent Entity and who shall serve as the Independent Entity. The Independent Entity shall act as an arbitrator to resolve all points of disagreement and its decision shall be final and binding upon all parties involved. Following the decision of the Independent Entity, Marathon, and members of the Marathon Group, and New Ashland Inc. and members of the New Ashland Inc. Group shall each take or cause to be taken any action necessary to implement the decision of the Independent Entity. The fees and expenses relating to the Independent Entity shall be borne equally by Marathon and New Ashland Inc.
Dispute Resolution.
 
SECTION 9.02. Any payment required to be made under this TMA that is not made on or before the date on which such payment is due shall bear interest computed at the rate specified from time to time pursuant to Code Section 6621(a)(2).
Interest.
 
 
 
SECTION 10.01. This Agreement shall terminate simultaneous with any termination of the Master Agreement pursuant to Article XI thereof. In the event of termination of this Agreement, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and have no effect, without any liability or obligation on the part of any party hereto.
Termination.
 
SECTION 10.02. Notwithstanding anything in this TMA to the contrary apart from Section 10.01, the provisions of this TMA shall survive for 30 days after the full period of all applicable statutes of limitations (giving effect to any waiver, mitigation or extension thereof) unless by their term they expire at an earlier date.
Survival.
 
SECTION 10.03. Either party may set-off any amount to which it is entitled under this TMA against amounts otherwise payable hereunder by such party. Neither the exercise of nor the failure to exercise such right of set-off will constitute an election of remedies or limit such party in any manner in the enforcement of any other remedies that may be available to it.
Right of Set-off.
 
SECTION 10.04. All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given upon receipt by the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice):
Notices.
 
if to the Ashland Parties, to:
 
Ashland Inc.
50 E. RiverCenter Boulevard
Covington, KY 41012-0391
 
 
if to the Marathon Parties, to:
 
Marathon Oil Corporation
5555 San Felipe Road
Houston, TX 77056
 
 
SECTION 10.05. When a reference is made in this Agreement to a Section, such reference shall be to a Section of this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include", "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation". This Agreement is intended to calculate, allocate and assign certain Tax responsibilities, liabilities and benefits among the parties to this Agreement, and any situation or circumstance concerning such calculation, allocation and assignment that is not specifically contemplated hereby or provided for herein shall be determined in a manner consistent with the underlying principles of calculation, allocation and assignment in this Agreement.
Interpretation.
 
SECTION 10.06. If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any rule or law, or public policy, all other conditions and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible to the end that the transactions contemplated hereby are fulfilled to the extent possible.
Severability.
 
SECTION 10.07. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties.
Counterparts.
 
SECTION 10.08. This Agreement is not intended to confer upon any person other than the parties hereto any rights or remedies.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries.
 
SECTION 10.09. To the extent any provision of this TMA conflicts with the determination of the Tax Liability (as defined in the MAP LLC Agreement) of Ashland or its successors for any Straddle Period of MAP as determined under Section 10.03 of the MAP LLC Agreement, such Tax Liability shall be determined in accordance with this Agreement. In all other respects, except as expressly modified herein, the terms and conditions of the MAP LLC Agreement, the ATCA, and the Put/Call Agreement shall continue to apply to the extent provided in Article XII of the Master Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, the term Tax Distribution Amount (as defined in the MAP LLC Agreement) shall not include the Tax Liability (as defined in the MAP LLC Agreement) of the Ashland Affiliated Group that is attributable to the MAP Partial Redemption.
Existing MAP Agreements.
 
SECTION 10.10. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Master Agreement, this Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements and Ancillary Agreements (as defined in the Master Agreement), New Ashland Inc. and its successors shall retain the right (to the extent provided for in Section 6.08 of the MAP LLC Agreement or any other provision of the MAP LLC Agreement) to participate in the preparation and filing of all Tax Returns, and in the defense of any Tax Claim, with respect to all Pass-Through Items relating to any Pre-Closing Period of MAP or any other JV Entity as if it were a member of MAP or such JV Entity. Any Tax Claim with respect to any issue concerning MAP's income, gain, losses, deductions or credits that could result in additional Taxes for the Pre-Closing Period for Ashland and additional basis (other than additional basis that is subject to Section 4.03 of the TMA) or deductions in the Post-Closing Period for Marathon or any member of the Marathon Group shall be treated under Section 6.08(e)(ii) of the MAP LLC Agreement as an issue the tax effect of which, if resolved adversely would be, and the tax effect of settling the issue is, proportionately the same for both Members. If an issue is treated as not proportionately the same for both Members under the preceding sentence, then in applying Section 6.08(e)(iv) of the MAP LLC Agreement, nationally recognized tax counsel (whose selection shall be based on the principles of Section 9.01 of the TMA) shall determine if the settlement is fair to both Members based on the merits of the issue. Such fees of the nationally recognized tax counsel shall be shared, 62% by Marathon and 38% by New Ashland Inc.
Continuing Ashland Participation Rights With Respect To Pre-Closing Pass-Through Items.
not
 
SECTION 10.11. Except as specifically provided in Section 10.09, as of the Closing Date, this Agreement supersedes and terminates all prior agreements as to the allocation of tax liabilities among the members of the Ashland Group, and after the Closing Date neither HoldCo nor any member of the Marathon Group, as successor, transferee or otherwise, shall be bound thereby or have any liability thereunder.
Prior Tax Sharing Agreements.
 
SECTION 10.12. This Agreement embodies the entire understanding among the parties relating to its subject matter. Any and all prior correspondence, conversations, and memoranda are merged herein and shall be without effect hereon. No promises, covenants, or representations of any kind, other than those expressly stated herein, have been made to induce either party to enter into this Agreement. This Agreement shall not be amended, supplemented, modified, or terminated except by a writing duly signed by each of the parties hereto, and no waiver of any provisions of this Agreement shall be effective unless in a writing duly signed by the party sought to be bound.
Entire Agreement; Amendments.
 
SECTION 10.13. If, prior to the Closing, the Tax Structure of the Transactions is modified, revised or changed in any manner, for any reason (including, but not limited to, modifications, revisions or changes resulting from changes in law or in response to communications (written or otherwise) with the IRS or any other Tax Authority), the parties will negotiate in good faith to amend this Agreement, to the extent necessary, to
Amendments Resulting From Pre-Closing Change In Tax Structure.
 
reflect the underlying principles of calculation, allocation and assignment in this Agreement.
 
SECTION 10.14. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor to any of the parties, by merger, acquisition of assets or otherwise, to the same extent as if the successor had been an original party to the Agreement, and in such event, all references herein to a party shall refer instead to the successor of such party.
Successors.
 
SECTION 10.15. Each party to this Agreement shall hold, and cause its officers, employees, agents, consultants, and advisors to hold, in strict confidence, unless compelled to disclose by judicial or administrative process or, in the opinion of its counsel, by other requirements of law, all information that it or any of its officers, employees, agents, consultants, and advisors may acquire pursuant to, or in the course of performing its obligations under, any provision of this Agreement.
Confidentiality.
 
SECTION 10.16. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, regardless of the laws that might otherwise govern under applicable principles of conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has caused this Agreement to be executed by its respective duly authorized officer as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 2.3
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (VIOC CENTERS) (this "") dated as of March 18, 2004, between Ashland Inc., a Kentucky corporation (""), and ATB Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Ashland ("").
Agreement
Ashland
HoldCo
 
WHEREAS, simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the parties hereto and certain other parties are entering into a Master Agreement (the ""; terms used but not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Master Agreement); and
Master Agreement
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Master Agreement, Ashland wishes to transfer to HoldCo, and HoldCo wishes to acquire and assume, certain assets and liabilities of the VIOC Centers (as defined in Section 6.01(b)) pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
 
SECTION 1.01. On the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement and the Master Agreement, at the Closing, Ashland shall contribute, assign, transfer, convey and deliver to HoldCo, and HoldCo shall acquire from Ashland, all the right, title and interest as of the Closing of Ashland in, to and under the Transferred Assets (as defined in Section 1.02(a)), and HoldCo shall assume the Assumed Liabilities (as defined in Section 1.03(a)). The contribution, assignment, transfer, conveyance and delivery of the Transferred Assets and the assumption of the Assumed Liabilities and the other Transactions contemplated by this Agreement are referred to in this Agreement as the "".
VIOC Assignment and Assumption.
VIOC Assignment and Assumption
SECTION 1.02. (a) The term "" means all of Ashland's right, title and interest in, to and under the following assets, other than the Excluded Assets (as defined in Section 1.02(b)):
Transferred Assets and Excluded Assets.
Transferred Assets
 
(i) all real property, leaseholds and other interests (including interests in surface rights and mineral interests) in the real property listed in Section 3.03 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter (as defined in Article III), in each case together with Ashland's right, title and interest in all buildings, structures, improvements, paved parking lots and fixtures thereon and all other appurtenances thereto (collectively, the "");
Premises
 
(ii) all salable lube oils, greases, automotive fluids, automotive accessories (including filters), supplies, parts, spare parts and other inventories of Ashland that on the Closing Date are located on or are in transit to the Premises (collectively, the "");
Inventory
 
(iii) all other tangible personal property and interests therein, including all machinery, equipment, tools, appliances, telephones, telecommunications equipment, copy machines, fax machines, computers, hardware that accesses point-of-sale systems, cash registers, implements, furniture, furnishings and fixtures, of Ashland that on the Closing Date are located on or are in transit to the Premises (other than signs and other identification items and materials, including all exterior pylon, monument, ground and building signs and all interior signs, banners and reading boards, in each case that customarily are owned by Ashland (and not by the franchisee) at its franchised Valvoline Instant Oil Change (VIOC) quick-lube service centers), in each case together with any rights or claims of Ashland arising out of the breach of any express or implied warranty by the manufacturers or sellers of such assets;
 
(iv) to the extent that such Permits (as defined in Section 4.12) are transferable, all Permits of Ashland that are used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers (the "");
Assigned Permits
 
(v) (A) all contracts, leases, subleases, licenses, indentures, agreements, commitments and all other legally binding arrangements (""), whether oral or written, to which Ashland is a party or by which Ashland is bound as of the date of this Agreement that are (1) listed in Sections 3.03 or 3.05 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter or (2) of the type specified in any of clauses (i) through (xi) of Section 3.05 but, as a result of the application of any applicable thresholds set forth therein, are not required to be listed in Section 3.05 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter, (B) all other written Contracts (including purchase orders and sales orders) to which Ashland is a party or by which Ashland is bound, in the case of this clause (B) that are entered into after the date of this Agreement, but not in violation or breach of any provision of this Agreement, and that exclusively relate to, or that arise exclusively out of, the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers in the ordinary course of business and (C) all Contracts to which Ashland is a party or by which Ashland is bound, in the case of this clause (C) that are entered into after the date of this Agreement and that are to be treated as Assigned Contracts pursuant to Section 4.11 (the "");
Contracts
Assigned Contracts
 
(vi) all credits, prepaid expenses, deferred charges, advance payments, security deposits and prepaid items of Ashland, in each case to the extent used, held for use or intended to be used in, or to the extent arising out of, the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers;
 
(vii) all books of account, ledgers, general, financial, accounting and personnel records, files, invoices, suppliers' lists, billing records, sales and promotional literature, supplier correspondence, sales records, credit data and other information relating to present or past customers, cost and pricing information, equipment maintenance data, purchasing records and information, business plans, payroll and personnel records, purchase orders, sales forms, artwork, photography, log books, environmental, health and safety schedules, reports, protocols and findings pertaining to the VIOC Centers or the Transferred Assets (including records of spills or other releases
 
or discharges into the atmosphere, records of environmental, safety or health reports to or from Governmental Entities regarding the VIOC Centers or the Transferred Assets (including notices of violation), and correspondence, notices and orders of an environmental, safety or health nature regarding the VIOC Centers or the Transferred Assets) and other similar property, rights and information of Ashland, in each case that are used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in, or that arise exclusively out of, the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers (the ""); , , that the Records shall not include any property, rights or information of Ashland that will be licensed to Merger Sub pursuant to the Blanket License Agreement (as defined in Section 6.01(b));
Records
provided
however
 
(viii) all goodwill and going concern value of Ashland generated exclusively by, or associated exclusively with, the VIOC Centers; and
 
(ix) all rights, claims and credits of Ashland to the extent relating to any other Transferred Asset or any Assumed Liability (other than any such items arising under insurance policies), including any such items arising under any guarantee, warranty, indemnity or similar right in favor of Ashland in respect of any other Transferred Asset or any Assumed Liability.
 
(b) The term "" means:
Excluded Assets
 
(i) all assets identified in Section 1.02(b) of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter;
 
(ii) all cash and cash equivalents of Ashland;
 
(iii) all rights, claims and credits of Ashland to the extent relating to any other Excluded Asset or any Retained Liability (as defined in Section 1.03(b)), including any such items arising under insurance policies and any guarantee, warranty, indemnity or similar right in favor of Ashland in respect of any other Excluded Asset or any Retained Liability;
 
(iv) all collective bargaining agreements and other Contracts with any labor union that cover one or more Active VIOC Centers Employees (as defined in Section 4.03(a)) and all Contracts relating to
 
compensation, bonus or severance to which any Active VIOC Centers Employee or any person hired to become a VIOC Centers Employee (as defined in Section 3.09(a)) is a party;
 
(v) all the assets of the VIOC Pension Plans (as defined in Section 3.09(a)) and all the assets of Ashland and its affiliates under any other VIOC Benefit Plan (as defined in Section 3.09(a));
 
(vi) all rights of Ashland under the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements;
 
(vii) all assets relating to corporate-level services of the type currently provided to the VIOC Centers by Ashland or any of its affiliates;
 
(viii) any shares of capital stock of any affiliate of Ashland;
 
(ix) the names and marks "Ashland", "V Valvoline Instant Oil Change and design", "Valvoline", "V", "Valvoline Instant Oil Change", "Instant Oil", "MVP and Design" and "MVP Maximum Vehicle Performance and Design" (in any style or design), and any other name or mark either derived from or including any portion of the foregoing or otherwise used in the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers;
 
(x) all records of Ashland prepared in connection with the Transactions;
 
(xi) all financial and tax records relating to the VIOC Centers to the extent they form part of Ashland's general ledger;
 
(xii) all trade secrets, confidential information and inventions, and all proprietary formulae, processes, procedures, research records, records of inventions, test information, operating systems, operating manuals, market surveys and marketing know-how of Ashland that are used, held for use or intended to be used in the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers, including the System (as defined in the form of License Agreement attached to the Blanket License Agreement and incorporated by reference therein) (the "");
Technology
 
(xiii) all Intellectual Property (as defined in Section 6.01(b)) of Ashland that is used, held for use or intended to be used in the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers;
 
(xiv) all signs and other identification items and materials, including exterior pylon, monument, ground and building signs and all interior signs, banners and reading boards, in each case that customarily are owned by Ashland (and not by the franchisee) at its franchised Valvoline Instant Oil Change (VIOC) quick-lube service centers;
 
(xv) prepaid insurance premiums; and
 
(xvi) all accounts receivable of Ashland as of the close of business on the Closing Date that arise out of the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers (the "").
Receivables
 
SECTION 1.03. (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, HoldCo shall assume, effective as of the Closing, and from and after the Closing, HoldCo shall pay, perform and discharge when due, and indemnify Ashland and its affiliates and each of their respective Representatives against, and defend and hold them harmless from, all of the following liabilities, obligations and commitments of any nature, whether known or unknown, express or implied, primary or secondary, direct or indirect, liquidated, absolute, accrued, contingent or otherwise and whether due or to become due, of Ashland (collectively, the ""), other than any Retained Liabilities:
Assumption of Certain Liabilities.
Assumed Liabilities
 
(i) all liabilities, obligations and commitments of Ashland under the Assigned Contracts to the extent such liabilities, obligations and commitments relate to the period from and after the Closing;
 
(ii) all liabilities, obligations and commitments of Ashland to the extent expressly assumed by HoldCo in accordance with Section 4.03;
 
(iii) all Environmental Liabilities (as defined in Section 6.01(b)) of Ashland to the extent they arise out of both (A) the operation of any of the Transferred Assets or the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers and (B) either (x) events occurring or
 
circumstances or conditions arising from and after the Closing, or (y) events occurring or circumstances or conditions arising prior to the Closing, but only, in the case of this clause (B)(y), to the extent set forth in the table below (, , that to the extent the same Environmental Liability is described in both clauses (x) and (y) of this Section 1.03(a)(iv)(B), such Environmental Liability will be apportioned between HoldCo and Ashland in proportion to the extent to which the activities of each party contributed to the cause of the Environmental Liability, taking into account all pertinent factors, including the length of ownership by HoldCo and Ashland of the relevant property during the time of the event or occurrence, or the development of the circumstance or condition, giving rise to the Environmental Liability and the use made of such property by the parties hereto):
provided
however
 
 
 
 
(iv) all other liabilities, obligations and commitments of Ashland to the extent such liabilities, obligations and commitments relate to or arise out of the operation of any of the Transferred Assets or the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers, in each case from and after the Closing.
 
(b) Notwithstanding Section 1.03(a), or any other provision of this Agreement, HoldCo shall not assume, and Ashland shall pay, perform and discharge when due, and indemnify HoldCo and its affiliates and each of their respective Representatives against, and defend and hold them harmless from, any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland or the VIOC Centers of any nature, whether known or unknown, express or implied, primary or secondary, direct or indirect, liquidated, absolute, accrued, contingent or otherwise, and whether due or to become due, except the Assumed Liabilities (collectively, the ""). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Retained Liabilities include:
Retained Liabilities
 
(i) any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland to the extent arising out of the operation or conduct by Ashland or any of its affiliates of any business other than the VIOC Centers;
 
(ii) all accounts payable of Ashland to the extent arising out of the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers prior to the Closing;
 
(iii) any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland (A) to the extent arising out of any actual or alleged breach by Ashland of, or nonperformance by Ashland under, any Contract (including any Assigned Contract) prior to the Closing or (B) under any Assigned Contract to the extent such liability,
 
obligation or commitment relates to the period prior to the Closing;
 
(iv) any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland arising out of any warranty claim, suit, action, proceeding, investigation, governmental action or other cause of action or claim associated with or relating to the VIOC Centers or the Transferred Assets (a "") to the extent arising out of actions, omissions or conditions occurring or existing on or prior to the Closing Date;
Claim
 
(v) any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland to the extent such liability, obligation or commitment relates to, or arises out of, any Excluded Asset, or arises out of the ownership or operation by Ashland of any of the Excluded Assets;
 
(vi) except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 4.03, any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland arising under any VIOC Benefit Plan;
 
(vii) any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland to any of its divisions, subsidiaries or affiliates;
 
(viii) any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland or any of its affiliates under any of the Transaction Agreements or any of the Ancillary Agreements; and
 
(ix) any Environmental Liability arising out of events occurring or circumstances or conditions arising prior to the Closing except for Environmental Liabilities that are Assumed Liabilities pursuant to Section 1.03(a)(iii); , , an Environmental Liability that otherwise would be considered a Retained Liability under this Section 1.03(b)(ix) shall be an Assumed Liability and shall not be a Retained Liability if the event, circumstance or condition that gave rise to such Environmental Liability (A) is the result of a change in use after the Closing Date of any of the Premises to a use other than a commercial use of such Premises similar to its current use, or (B) was discovered as a result of a Phase II or other intrusive sampling, testing or investigation conducted after the Closing Date (collectively, "") except for
provided
however
Environmental Tests
 
Environmental Tests undertaken (x) to respond to, investigate, or otherwise remediate environmental conditions or contamination that are on the Closing Date in violation of the standards imposed by applicable Environmental Laws (as defined in Section 3.11(b)), (y) as required by Environmental Laws, pursuant to the terms of any lease with respect to any of the Premises or in response to an inquiry, request, claim or demand by a Governmental Entity or as a reasonable response to any claim or demand by any other person that is not an affiliate of HoldCo or (z) in connection with a condition first discovered as a result of construction activities, excluding construction activities relating to the installation of underground storage tanks, commencing after the Closing Date at, on or beneath any of the Premises, so long as such construction activities are undertaken in connection with a commercial use of such Premises similar to its current use.
 
(c) HoldCo shall acquire the Transferred Assets free and clear of all liabilities, obligations and commitments of Ashland, other than the Assumed Liabilities, and free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Liens (as defined in Section 6.01(b)) and other than any Lien pursuant to the HoldCo Borrowing arrangements or arising from actions or inactions of any of the Marathon Parties or their affiliates (and not of any of the Ashland Parties or their affiliates).
 
SECTION 1.04. (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, this Agreement shall not constitute an agreement to assign any asset or any claim or right or any benefit arising under or resulting from such asset, or to assume any liability, obligation or commitment, if an attempted assignment or assumption thereof, without the Consent of a third party, would constitute a breach or other contravention of the rights of such third party, would be ineffective with respect to any party to an agreement concerning such asset, liability, obligation or commitment, or would in any way adversely affect the rights of Ashland or, upon transfer, HoldCo with respect to such asset, liability, obligation or commitment. If any transfer or assignment by Ashland, or any assumption by HoldCo, of any interest in, or liability, obligation or commitment under, any asset requires the Consent of a third party, then such
Consents of Third Parties.
 
transfer or assignment or assumption shall be made subject to such Consent being obtained. Except as set forth in Section 1.04(b), Ashland shall not have any liability or obligation under this Agreement arising out of or relating to the failure to obtain any such Consent that may be required in connection with the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement or because of any circumstances resulting therefrom, in each case so long as Ashland shall have complied with its obligation under Section 9.11 of the Master Agreement to use its reasonable best efforts to obtain such Consents. Subject to Section 1.04(b), no representation, warranty or covenant of Ashland herein shall be breached or deemed breached, and no condition shall be deemed not satisfied, as a result of (i) the failure to obtain any such Consent, (ii) any circumstances resulting therefrom or (iii) any Claim or investigation commenced or threatened by or on behalf of any person arising out of or relating to the failure to obtain any such Consent or any circumstances resulting therefrom, in each case so long as Ashland shall have complied with its obligation under Section 9.11 of the Master Agreement to use its reasonable best efforts to obtain such Consents.
 
(b) If any such Consent is not obtained prior to the Closing, the Closing shall nonetheless take place on the terms set forth herein and, thereafter, Ashland and HoldCo shall cooperate (at their own expense) in any lawful and reasonable arrangement proposed by HoldCo under which HoldCo shall obtain the economic claims, rights and benefits under the asset, claim or right with respect to which the Consent has not been obtained in accordance with this Agreement. Such reasonable arrangement may include (i) the subcontracting, sublicensing or subleasing to HoldCo of any and all rights of Ashland against the other party to such third-party agreement arising out of a breach or cancellation thereof by the other party and (ii) the enforcement by Ashland of such rights. With respect to the Assigned Contracts listed in Section 1.04(b) of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter, if the provision of such economic claims, rights and benefits to HoldCo shall violate the rights of such other party, Ashland shall otherwise compensate HoldCo for the reasonable value, if any, of such economic claims, rights and benefits, so long as HoldCo shall have complied with its obligations under the first sentence of this Section 1.04(b).
 
SECTION 1.05. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the rights, responsibilities and obligations of the parties with respect to any Taxes or Tax Items (in each case as defined in the Tax Matters Agreement) related to or arising from the ownership or operation of the VIOC Centers shall be determined pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement.
Tax Matters.
 
 
 
SECTION 2.01. The closing of the VIOC Assignment and Assumption will occur at the Closing, subject only to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions to Closing in accordance with the terms of the Master Agreement.
Closing Date.
 
SECTION 2.02. At the Closing, in accordance with Section 1.01(a) of the Master Agreement:
Transactions To Be Effected at the Closing.
 
(a) Ashland shall deliver to HoldCo an executed deed (in recordable form) with respect to each of the Owned Properties (as defined in Section 3.03(a)) located in Ohio, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A-1, and an executed deed (in recordable form) with respect to each of the Owned Properties located in Michigan, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A-2;
 
(b) Ashland and HoldCo shall enter into an assignment and assumption document, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, providing for the assignment of the Transferred Assets and the assumption of the Assumed Liabilities; and
 
(c) The parties thereto shall enter into the Blanket License Agreement.
 
 
 
Ashland hereby represents and warrants to HoldCo that, as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as if made on the Closing Date (except to the extent any such representations and warranties expressly
 
relate to an earlier date, in which case as of such earlier date), except as set forth in the letter referencing this Agreement, dated as of the date of this Agreement, from Ashland to HoldCo (the ""):
VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter
 
SECTION 3.01. Section 3.01 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter sets forth the unaudited combined statement of tangible assets to be sold as of September 30, 2003 (the ""), the unaudited combined statement of tangible assets to be sold as of December 31, 2003, the unaudited combined statement of income before taxes for the year ended September 30, 2003 and the unaudited combined statement of income before taxes for the three months ended December 31, 2003, together with the notes to such financial statements, in each case of the VIOC Centers (such financial statements and the notes thereto, the ""). The Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the tangible assets to be sold and income before taxes of the VIOC Centers as of the dates and for the periods indicated, in conformity with GAAP (subject, in the case of the interim financial statements as of and for the period ended December 31, 2003, to normal, recurring year-end adjustments).
Financial Statements.
Balance Sheet
Financial Statements
 
SECTION 3.02. Ashland has, or as of the Closing Date will have, and at the Closing Ashland will transfer (subject to the consummation of the Closing on the Closing Date in accordance with the terms of Article I of the Master Agreement) to HoldCo, good and valid title to all Transferred Assets in each case free and clear of all Liens (other than any Lien pursuant to the HoldCo Borrowing arrangements or arising from actions or inactions of any of the Marathon Parties or their affiliates (and not of any of the Ashland Parties or their affiliates)), except Permitted Liens. This Section 3.02 does not relate to real property or interests in real property, such items being the subject of Section 3.03.
Assets Other than Real Property Interests.
 
SECTION 3.03. (a) Section 3.03 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter sets forth a complete list of all real property and interests in real property owned in fee by Ashland and any of the other Ashland Parties and used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers, other than any such property or interest constituting an Excluded Asset (individually, an
Real Property.
 
""). Section 3.03 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter sets forth a complete list of all real property and interests in real property leased by Ashland and used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers, other than any such property or interest constituting an Excluded Asset (individually, a "").
Owned Property
Leased Property
 
(b) Ashland has, or as of the Closing Date will have, and at the Closing Ashland will transfer (subject to the consummation of the Closing on the Closing Date in accordance with the terms of Article I of the Master Agreement) to HoldCo, good and marketable fee title to all Owned Property and good and valid title to the leasehold estates in all Leased Property, in each case free and clear of all Liens (other than any Lien pursuant to the HoldCo Borrowing arrangements or arising from actions or inactions of any of the Marathon Parties or their affiliates (and not of any of the Ashland Parties or their affiliates)), except Permitted Liens.
 
SECTION 3.04.
[Intentionally Omitted].
 
SECTION 3.05. (a) Except for Contracts that will not be binding on the Transferred Assets or any of the VIOC Centers after the Closing, Ashland is not a party to or bound by any Contract that is used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in, or that arises exclusively out of, the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers (other than (x) the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements and (y) Assigned Contracts entered into after the date of this Agreement in the ordinary course of business and not otherwise in violation of this Agreement) that is:
Contracts.
 
(i) a covenant not to compete (other than pursuant to the radius restrictions contained in the agreements listed in Section 3.05(a)(i) of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter) that limits the conduct of business at any of the VIOC Centers as presently conducted;
 
(ii) a Contract with (A) Ashland or any affiliate of Ashland or (B) any officer, director or employee of Ashland or any of its affiliates, in each case other than Contracts that will be terminated as of the Closing;
 
(iii) a lease, sublease or similar Contract with any person under which Ashland is a lessor or sublessor of, or makes available for use to any person, all or any portion of the Premises in any such case that has an aggregate future receivable in excess of $50,000 and is not terminable by Ashland by notice of not more than 30 days without payment or penalty of any kind;
 
(iv) a lease, sublease or similar Contract with any person under which (A) Ashland is lessee of, or holds or uses, any machinery, equipment, vehicle or other tangible personal property owned by any person or (B) Ashland is a lessor or sublessor of, or makes available for use by any person, any tangible personal property owned or leased by Ashland, in any such case that has an aggregate future liability or receivable, as the case may be, in excess of $100,000 and is not terminable by Ashland by notice of not more than 30 days without payment or penalty of any kind;
 
(v) (A) a continuing Contract for the future purchase of materials, supplies or equipment (other than purchase orders for inventory in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice), (B) a management, service, consulting or other similar Contract or (C) an advertising agreement or arrangement, in any such case that has an aggregate future liability to any person in excess of $100,000 and is not terminable by Ashland by notice of not more than 30 days without payment or penalty of any kind;
 
(vi) a Contract (including a sales order) involving the obligation of Ashland to deliver products or services for payment of more than $100,000 or extending for a term more than 90 days from the date of this Agreement (unless terminable without payment or penalty of any kind upon no more than 30 days' notice);
 
(vii) (A) a Contract under which Ashland has borrowed any money from, or issued any note, bond, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness to, any person or (B) any other note, bond, debenture, letter of credit, financial assurance requirement or other evidence of indebtedness issued to any person;
 
(viii) a Contract (including any so-called take-or-pay or keepwell agreement) under which (A) any person has directly or indirectly guaranteed indebtedness, liabilities or obligations of Ashland or (B) Ashland has directly or indirectly guaranteed indebtedness, liabilities or obligations of any other person (in each case other than endorsements for the purpose of collection in the ordinary course of business);
 
(ix) a Contract under which Ashland has, directly or indirectly, made any advance, loan, extension of credit or capital contribution to, or other investment in, any person (other than extensions of trade credit in the ordinary course of business of the VIOC Centers), in any such case that, individually, is in excess of $100,000;
 
(x) a Contract granting a Lien (other than Permitted Liens) upon the Premises; or
 
(xi) any other Contract that has an aggregate future liability to any person (other than Ashland) in excess of $100,000 and is not terminable by Ashland by notice of not more than 30 days without payment or penalty of any kind (other than purchase orders and sales orders).
 
As of the date of this Agreement, neither the Transferred Assets nor the VIOC Centers are bound by or subject to any Contract of any of the types referred to in clauses (i) through (xi) of this Section 3.05(a), applying the thresholds set forth therein, that will be binding on any of the Transferred Assets or the VIOC Centers after the Closing Date.
 
(b) All Contracts listed in the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter are valid, binding and in full force and effect and are enforceable by Ashland in accordance with their terms subject, as to enforcement, to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and to equitable principles of general applicability, except for such failures to be valid, binding, in full force and effect or enforceable that have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect (as defined in Section 6.01(b)). Ashland has performed all obligations required to be performed by
 
it to date under the Assigned Contracts, and it is not in breach or default thereunder and, to the knowledge of Ashland, no other party to any Assigned Contract is in breach or default thereunder, in each case except for such noncompliance, breaches and defaults that have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect. Ashland has not received any notice of the intention of any party to terminate any Assigned Contract listed in any section of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter.
 
(c) Section 3.05(c) of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter sets forth each Assigned Contract with respect to which the Consent of the other party or parties thereto must be obtained by virtue of the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the consummation of the VIOC Assignment and Assumption to avoid the invalidity of the transfer of such Contract, the termination thereof, a breach, violation or default thereunder or any other change or modification to the terms thereof, other than any such invalidity, termination, breach, violation, default, change or modification that would not reasonably be expected to have a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect.
 
SECTION 3.06. All Assigned Permits are validly held by Ashland, and Ashland has complied with the terms and conditions thereof, except for any such invalidity or non-compliance that would not reasonably be expected to have a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect. Ashland has not received written notice of any Claims relating to the revocation or modification of any Assigned Permits except for any such Claims that would not reasonably be expected to have a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect. None of the Assigned Permits is subject to suspension, modification, revocation or nonrenewal as a result of the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the consummation of the VIOC Assignment and Assumption, except for any such suspensions, modifications, revocations or nonrenewals that would not reasonably be expected to have a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect. This Section 3.06 does not relate to environmental matters, such items being the subject of Section 3.11(b).
Permits.
 
SECTION 3.07. The Transferred Assets are in good operating condition and repair (ordinary wear and tear excepted) and are suitable for their current uses, except where the failure of the Transferred Assets to be in good operating condition or
Condition of Transferred Assets.
 
repair or to be suitable for such uses would not reasonably be expected to have a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect.
 
SECTION 3.08. Section 3.08 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of each Claim pending or, to the knowledge of Ashland, threatened against, or as to which a notice has been received as of the date of this Agreement by, Ashland (and, as to complaints, which have been served on Ashland) and that involves an amount in controversy of more than $100,000. This Section 3.08 does not relate to environmental matters, such items being the subject of Section 3.11(b), or to employee or labor matters, such items being the subject of Section 3.12.
Claims.
 
SECTION 3.09. (a) Section 3.09 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter contains a list of all "employee pension benefit plans" (as defined in Section 3(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("")), maintained or contributed to by Ashland for the benefit of any officers or employees of the VIOC Centers ("") and all "employee welfare benefit plans" (as defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA), bonus, stock option, stock purchase, deferred compensation plans or arrangements and other employee fringe benefit plans maintained, or contributed to, by Ashland or any of its affiliates for the benefit of one or more current or former employees of the VIOC Centers (other than any former employee of the VIOC Centers who became employed by MAP or any of its subsidiaries following termination of employment with Ashland or any of its affiliates) (each, a "") (all the foregoing, including VIOC Pension Plans, being herein called ""). Ashland has provided to Marathon true, complete and correct copies of (i) each VIOC Benefit Plan (or, in the case of any unwritten VIOC Benefit Plans, fair and accurate summary descriptions thereof), (ii) the two most recent annual reports on Form 5500 filed with the Internal Revenue Service with respect to each VIOC Benefit Plan (if any such report was required), (iii) the most recent summary plan description for each VIOC Benefit Plan for which such a summary plan description is required and (iv) each trust agreement, group annuity contract or other funding and financing arrangement relating to any VIOC Benefit Plan.
Benefit Plans.
ERISA
VIOC Pension Plans
VIOC Centers Employee
VIOC Benefit Plans
 
(b) There does not exist as of the date of this Agreement, nor do any circumstances exist as of the date of
 
this Agreement that would reasonably be expected to result in, any Employee Benefits Liability (as defined below), whether under any VIOC Benefit Plan or otherwise, that would reasonably be expected to become a liability of HoldCo or any of its affiliates at or after the Closing. "" means any liability of Ashland or any entity required to be treated as a single employer under Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code with Ashland prior to the Closing under (i) Sections 302, 405, 409 or Title IV of ERISA, (ii) Section 412, 4971 or 4975 of the Code or (iii) Sections 601 et. seq. and 701 et seq. of ERISA and Section 4980B and Sections 9801 et seq. of the Code.
Employee Benefits Liability
 
SECTION 3.10. From the date of the Balance Sheet to the date of this Agreement, there has not been any event, change, effect or development (i) that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect or (ii) that would have been prohibited by Section 4.01 if the terms of such section had been in effect as of and after the date of the Balance Sheet.
Absence of Changes or Events.
 
SECTION 3.11. (a) The VIOC Centers are in compliance with all applicable Laws, including those relating to occupational health and safety, except for instances of noncompliance that would not reasonably be expected to have a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect. To the knowledge of Ashland, Ashland has not received any written communication from a Governmental Entity that alleges that the VIOC Centers are not in compliance in any material respect with any applicable Law that has not been finally resolved with such Governmental Entity. This Section 3.11(a) does not relate to matters with respect to Taxes, which are the subject of the Tax Matters Agreement, or to environmental matters, which are the subject of Section 3.11(b).
Compliance with Laws.
 
(b) There are no underground storage tanks for the storage of Hazardous Materials (as defined below) in use at any of the VIOC Centers, and to Ashland's knowledge there are no such tanks located under the Premises. Except for such matters that would not reasonably be expected to have a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect, (i) to the knowledge of Ashland, Ashland has not received any written communication from a Governmental Entity that alleges that the VIOC Centers are in violation of any Environmental Law
 
that has not been finally resolved with such Governmental Entity, (ii) Ashland holds all Permits required to conduct the VIOC Centers under any applicable Environmental Law, and is and at all times has been in compliance with all Environmental Laws and the terms and conditions of such Permits, (iii) there are no Environmental Claims (as defined below) pending, or to the knowledge of Ashland, threatened against Ashland and (iv) there have been no Releases (as defined below) of any Hazardous Material at or originating from the Premises, and no Hazardous Materials have been handled, generated, stored, transported or disposed of by the VIOC Centers, in each case that would reasonably be expected to form the basis of an Environmental Claim against Ashland. The term "" means any and all administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, orders, demands, directives, claims, liens, investigations, proceedings or written notices of noncompliance or violation by or from any person alleging liability of whatever kind or nature arising out of, based on or resulting from (x) the presence or Release of, or exposure to, any Hazardous Materials; or (y) the failure to comply with any Environmental Law. The term "" means all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, regulations, orders, decrees, judgments, legally binding agreements or environmental Permits issued, promulgated or entered into by or with any Governmental Entity, relating to the protection of the environment, the protection of the public welfare from actual or potential exposure, or the effects from exposure, to any actual or potential release, discharge, disposal or emission (whether past or present) of any Hazardous Materials or the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, labeling, storage, disposal, transport or handling of any Hazardous Materials. The term "" means all explosive or regulated radioactive materials or substances, hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or chemicals, petroleum (including crude oil or any fraction thereof) or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, and any other material, chemical substance or waste that in relevant form or concentration is prohibited, limited or regulated (or the cleanup of which can be required) pursuant to any Environmental Law and all substances that require special handling, storage or disposal procedures or whose handling, storage or disposal procedures is in any way regulated, in any case under any applicable Law for the protection of the health, safety and environment. The term "" means
Environmental Claim
Environmental Laws
Hazardous Materials
Release
 
any spill, emission, leaking, dumping, injection, deposit, disposal, discharge, dispersal, leaching, emanation or migration of any Hazardous Materials into or through the environment (including ambient air, surface water, ground water, soils, land surface, subsurface strata or workplace).
 
SECTION 3.12. Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect (i) there is not any, and during the past three years there has not been any, labor strike, dispute, work stoppage or lockout pending against the VIOC Centers; (ii) to the knowledge of Ashland, no union organizational campaign is in progress with respect to the VIOC Centers Employees and no question concerning representation of such employees exists; (iii) Ashland is not engaged in any unfair labor practice in connection with the conduct of the VIOC Centers; (iv) there are not any unfair labor practice charges or complaints against Ashland pending before the National Labor Relations Board in connection with the conduct of the VIOC Centers; (v) there are not any pending union grievances against Ashland in connection with the conduct of the VIOC Centers as to which there is a reasonable possibility of adverse determination; (vi) there are not any pending charges in connection with the conduct of the VIOC Centers against Ashland or any VIOC Centers Employee before the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or any state or local agency responsible for the prevention of unlawful employment practices; and (vii) Ashland has not received written notice during the past three years of the intent of any Governmental Entity responsible for the enforcement of labor or employment laws to conduct an investigation of the VIOC Centers.
Employee and Labor Matters.
 
SECTION 3.13. Except for the exclusion of the Excluded Assets and assuming that HoldCo has the ability to provide to the VIOC Centers all corporate-level services of the type that are currently provided to the VIOC Centers by Ashland or any of its affiliates, the Transferred Assets, together with the Blanket License Agreement, are sufficient for the operation and conduct of the business of the VIOC Centers immediately following the Closing in substantially the same manner as currently operated and conducted, other than any insufficiency that would not reasonably be expected to have a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect.
Sufficiency of Transferred Assets.
 
SECTION 3.14. Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect, the Inventory is generally of a quality usable or salable in the ordinary course of business of the VIOC Centers.
Inventory.
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01. (a) Except for matters set forth in Section 4.01 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter or otherwise contemplated by the Transaction Agreements, from the date of this Agreement to the Closing, Ashland shall conduct the business of the VIOC Centers in the usual, regular and ordinary course in substantially the same manner as previously conducted. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Ashland shall use its reasonable best efforts to (i) preserve the material business relationships of the VIOC Centers with customers, suppliers, distributors and others with whom Ashland deals in connection with the conduct of the VIOC Centers in the ordinary course of business and retain its present employees who are involved in the operation of the VIOC Centers, (ii) maintain the Transferred Assets, including those held under leases, in as good operating condition and repair (ordinary wear and tear excepted) as at present, and maintain all Permits set forth in Section 3.06 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter, (iii) perform in all material respects its obligations under Assigned Contracts and (iv) comply in all material respects with all applicable Laws relating to the VIOC Centers or any of the Transferred Assets. In addition, except as set forth in Section 4.01 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter or otherwise contemplated by the Transaction Agreements, Ashland shall not do any of the following in connection with the VIOC Centers without the prior written consent of Marathon (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed):
Covenants of Ashland Relating to Conduct of VIOC Centers.
 
(i) adopt, establish or amend in any material respect any VIOC Benefit Plan (or any plan that would be a VIOC Benefit Plan if adopted or established) in a manner affecting any VIOC Centers Employee, except as required by applicable Law or as would relate to a substantial number of other similarly situated employees of Ashland and its subsidiaries;
 
(ii) grant to any VIOC Centers Employee any increase in compensation or benefits, except in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice or as may be required under existing Contracts set forth in Section 3.05 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter and except for any increases for which Ashland shall be solely obligated and which will not result in any incremental compensation that will be payable by HoldCo after the Closing Date pursuant to Section 4.03(a);
 
(iii) subject any Transferred Asset to any Lien of any nature whatsoever that would have been required to be set forth in Sections 3.02 or 3.03 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter if existing on the date of this Agreement;
 
(iv) waive any claims or rights of substantial value to the extent relating to any Transferred Asset;
 
(v) make or incur any capital expenditures (of a non-emergency nature) that relate to the VIOC Centers and that are not reflected in the capital expenditure budget set forth in Section 4.01(a)(v) of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter and that, individually, are in excess of $100,000 or that, in the aggregate, are in excess of $500,000, except for any such capital expenditures for which Ashland shall be solely obligated, , , that if Ashland makes or incurs a capital expenditure that relates exclusively to the VIOC Centers and is not reflected in the capital expenditure budget set forth in Section 4.01(a)(v) of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter, and if Marathon agrees in writing to cause HoldCo to reimburse Ashland for such capital expenditure, then HoldCo shall, promptly after the Closing, reimburse Ashland for such capital expenditure;
provided
however
 
(vi) sell, lease, license or otherwise dispose of any Transferred Assets, except (A) inventory, supplies and obsolete or excess equipment sold or disposed of in the ordinary course of business and (B) leases entered into in the ordinary course of business with aggregate annual lease payments not in excess of $50,000;
 
(vii) enter into or amend any employee collective bargaining agreement or other Contract with any labor union;
 
(viii) commit an intentional material breach of or waive any material rights under any material Assigned Contract or any material Permit, or amend or terminate any material Assigned Contract or any material Permit if the result of any such amendment or termination would be materially adverse to HoldCo; or
 
(ix) authorize, or commit or agree to take, any of the foregoing actions.
 
(b) Ashland shall promptly advise Marathon in writing of any change or event that has had or would reasonably be expected to have a VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect.
Advice of Changes.
 
(c) Ashland shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep, or to cause to be kept, all insurance policies currently maintained with respect to the Transferred Assets (the ""), or suitable replacements thereof, in full force and effect without interruption through the close of business on the Closing Date; it being understood that any and all Ashland Insurance Policies are owned and maintained by Ashland and its affiliates (and do not exclusively relate to the VIOC Centers). HoldCo will not have any rights under the Ashland Insurance Policies from and after the Closing Date.
Insurance.
Ashland Insurance Policies
 
(d) After the date of this Agreement, if Ashland enters into a Contract that is a media placement agreement that would be an Assigned Contract pursuant to Section 1.02(a)(v)(B), and if Marathon agrees in writing to cause HoldCo to reimburse Ashland for expenditures made or incurred under such Assigned Contract prior to the Closing, then HoldCo shall, promptly after the Closing, reimburse Ashland for such expenditures.
Reimbursement of Media Expenditures.
 
SECTION 4.02. After the Closing, if Ashland or any of its affiliates receive any refund or other amount which is a Transferred Asset or is otherwise properly due and owing to HoldCo or any of its affiliates in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, Ashland promptly shall remit, or shall cause to be remitted, such amount to HoldCo. After the Closing, if
Refunds and Remittances.
 
HoldCo or any of its affiliates receive any refund or other amount which is an Excluded Asset or is otherwise properly due and owing to Ashland or any of its affiliates in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, HoldCo promptly shall remit, or shall cause to be remitted, such amount to Ashland. After the Closing, if HoldCo or any of its affiliates receive any refund or other amount which is related to claims (including workers' compensation), litigation, insurance or other matters for which Ashland or any of its affiliates is responsible hereunder, and which amount is not a Transferred Asset, or is otherwise properly due and owing to Ashland or any of its affiliates in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, HoldCo promptly shall remit, or cause to be remitted, such amount to Ashland. After the Closing, if Ashland or any of its affiliates receive any refund or other amount which is related to claims (including workers' compensation), litigation, insurance or other matters for which HoldCo or any of its affiliates is responsible hereunder, and which amount is not an Excluded Asset, or is otherwise properly due and owing to HoldCo or any of its affiliates in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, Ashland promptly shall remit, or cause to be remitted, such amount to HoldCo.
 
SECTION 4.03. (a) Effective as of the Closing, HoldCo or one or more of its affiliates shall offer employment (which shall include HoldCo's compliance with its covenants set forth in this Section 4.03) to all VIOC Centers Employees who on the Closing Date are actively at work (each, an ""). For purposes of this Agreement, any VIOC Centers Employee who is not actively at work on the Closing Date due solely to a leave of absence (including due to vacation, holiday, sick leave, maternity or paternity leave, military leave, jury duty, bereavement leave, injury or short-term disability), other than long-term disability, in compliance with applicable policies of Ashland or its affiliates shall be deemed an Active VIOC Centers Employee. Each VIOC Centers Employee who accepts such an offer of employment is referred to herein as a "". Immediately following the Closing, HoldCo shall, or shall cause one or more of its affiliates to, provide each Transferred VIOC Centers Employee (i) with overall compensation that is at least equivalent to such Transferred VIOC Centers Employee's overall compensation in effect immediately prior to the
Employee Matters.
Continuation of Employment.
Active VIOC Centers Employee
Transferred VIOC Centers Employee
 
Closing and (ii) subject to the provisions of this Section 4.03, with appropriate employee benefits as determined by HoldCo or such affiliate. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, HoldCo shall maintain employee benefit plans and programs for the Transferred VIOC Centers Employees, which shall be competitive in the retail industry.
 
(b) (i) Immediately following the Closing, HoldCo or one or more of its affiliates shall allow Transferred VIOC Centers Employees to participate in benefit plans that provide for group welfare benefits including, for the avoidance of doubt, vacation and severance benefits (the ""). HoldCo shall grant to the Transferred VIOC Centers Employees credit under the HoldCo VIOC Welfare Plans for service prior to the Closing with Ashland and its affiliates for all purposes, other than for purposes of determining eligibility to receive retiree medical subsidies and for purposes of determining level of benefits and benefit accruals under any retiree medical plans maintained by HoldCo or its affiliates. HoldCo or its applicable affiliate shall (A) waive all limitations as to preexisting conditions, exclusions and waiting periods and actively-at-work requirements with respect to participation and coverage requirements applicable to the Transferred VIOC Centers Employees and their dependents under the HoldCo VIOC Welfare Plans to the extent satisfied or waived under the applicable corresponding VIOC Benefit Plan immediately prior to the Closing and (B) provide each Transferred VIOC Centers Employee and his or her eligible dependents with either pro-rated deductibles and co-payments for the balance of the year or credit for any co-payments and deductibles paid prior to the Closing in the calendar year in which the Closing Date occurs (or, if later, in the calendar year in which Transferred VIOC Centers Employees and their dependents commence participation in the applicable HoldCo VIOC Welfare Plan) for purposes of satisfying any applicable deductible or out-of-pocket requirements under any HoldCo VIOC Welfare Plans in which the Transferred VIOC Centers Employees participate. If credit for deductibles and co-payments is provided, Ashland shall provide or cause to be provided adequate data to implement that credit as HoldCo may reasonably request.
Certain Welfare Benefits Matters.
HoldCo VIOC Welfare Plans
 
(ii) Ashland shall be responsible in accordance with its applicable welfare plans (and the applicable welfare plans of its affiliates) in effect prior to the Closing for all reimbursement claims (such as medical and dental claims) for expenses incurred, and for all non-reimbursement claims (such as life insurance claims) incurred, under such plans prior to the Closing by Transferred VIOC Centers Employees and their dependents, except that HoldCo shall be responsible for such claims to the extent such claims are reflected on the Balance Sheet or to the extent insured under an insurance policy of which HoldCo or its affiliates becomes the beneficiary and for which Ashland or its affiliates have paid the premium. HoldCo shall be responsible in accordance with the applicable welfare plans of HoldCo and its affiliates for all reimbursement claims (such as medical and dental claims) for expenses incurred, and for all non-reimbursement claims (such as life insurance claims) incurred, from and after the Closing by Transferred VIOC Centers Employees and their dependents. For purposes of this Section 4.03(b)(ii), a claim shall be deemed to have been incurred on (A) the date of death or dismemberment in the case of claims under life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment policies or (B) the date on which the charge or expense giving rise to such claim is incurred (without regard to the date of inception of the related illness or injury or the date of submission of a claim related thereto) in the case of all other claims; , , that in the event of a hospital stay that commences prior to the close of business on the Closing Date and ends after the close of business on the Closing Date, the cost thereof shall be apportioned between HoldCo and Ashland with Ashland responsible for that portion of the cost incurred prior to the close of business on the Closing Date and HoldCo responsible for the balance of such cost. Effective as of the Closing, HoldCo shall assume all liabilities, obligations and commitments of Ashland and its affiliates to Transferred VIOC Centers Employees and their eligible dependents in respect of health insurance under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended (""), the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and applicable state Law; , , that Ashland and its affiliates shall remain obligated to
provided
however
COBRA
provided
however
 
provide any applicable COBRA notices in respect of events occurring on or prior to the Closing Date.
 
(c) For purposes of determining the number of vacation days to which each Transferred VIOC Centers Employee shall be entitled following the Closing, HoldCo shall assume and honor all vacation days accrued or earned but not yet taken by such Transferred VIOC Centers Employee as of the Closing. To the extent that a Transferred VIOC Centers Employee is entitled under any applicable Law or any policy of Ashland or its affiliates to be paid for any vacation days accrued or earned but not yet taken by such Transferred VIOC Centers Employee as of the Closing, HoldCo shall discharge the liability for such vacation days.
Accrued Vacation.
 
(d) Immediately following the Closing, HoldCo or one or more of its affiliates shall have in effect a retirement benefit plan or plans (as applicable, the "") that shall provide benefits to the Transferred VIOC Centers Employees. HoldCo or such affiliate shall have sole discretion in establishing the provisions of the HoldCo Retirement Plan.
Retirement Plan.
HoldCo Retirement Plan
 
(e) Following the date of this Agreement, Ashland and HoldCo shall reasonably cooperate in all matters reasonably necessary to effect the transactions contemplated by this Section 4.03, including exchanging information and data relating to workers' compensation, employee benefits and employee benefit plan coverages (except to the extent prohibited by applicable Law), and in obtaining any governmental approvals required hereunder.
Administration.
 
(f) HoldCo and Ashland hereby agree to follow the alternate procedure for employment tax withholding as provided in Section 5 of Rev. Proc. 96-60, 1996-53 I.R.B. 24 (""). Ashland shall provide HoldCo with all necessary and accurate payroll records and such other information relating to the Transferred VIOC Centers Employees as HoldCo may reasonably request with respect to Transferred VIOC Centers Employees in order to comply with the provisions of Rev. Proc. 96-60 with respect to the calendar year that includes the Closing Date. HoldCo shall perform all employment tax reporting responsibilities for such employees from the Closing Date forward and shall furnish a Form W-2 for such calendar year to each Transferred VIOC Centers Employee that will include all
Employment Tax Reporting Responsibility.
Rev. Proc. 96-60
 
remuneration earned by such Transferred VIOC Centers Employee from Ashland or HoldCo during such calendar year.
 
(g) It is HoldCo's intent that the HoldCo Retirement Plan shall provide retirement benefits that are competitive within the retail industry.
Intent.
 
SECTION 4.04. After the Closing, upon reasonable written notice, Ashland and HoldCo shall furnish or cause to be furnished to each other and their employees and Representatives, during normal business hours, reasonable access to the personnel, properties, books, Contracts, commitments, records and other information relating to the VIOC Centers (and, to the extent reasonably requested, copies of the portions relating to the VIOC Centers of any such books, Contracts, commitments, records and other information, in each case to the extent they are available in written form and they relate to the period prior to the Closing Date) and assistance relating to the VIOC Centers (to the extent within the control of such party), in each case for any reasonable business purpose, including in respect of litigation, insurance matters, financial reporting and accounting matters.
Post-Closing Information.
 
SECTION 4.05. HoldCo recognizes that certain Records may contain incidental information relating to subsidiaries, divisions or businesses of Ashland other than the VIOC Centers and that Ashland may retain copies thereof. Ashland recognizes that certain documents and information of a type similar to the Records may be used, held for use or intended to be used primarily in, or arise primarily out of, the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers, and shall provide copies of the relevant portions thereof to HoldCo at the Closing.
Records.
 
SECTION 4.06.
[Intentionally Omitted].
 
SECTION 4.07. HoldCo hereby waives compliance by Ashland with the provisions of any so-called "bulk transfer law" of any jurisdiction in connection with the VIOC Assignment and Assumption.
Bulk Transfer Laws.
 
SECTION 4.08. At any time after 20 days after the Closing Date, HoldCo shall not use stationery, purchase order forms, labels, material safety data sheets or other similar paper goods or supplies that state or
Supplies.
 
otherwise indicate thereon that the VIOC Centers are a division or unit of Ashland.
 
SECTION 4.09. From and after the Closing, Ashland and HoldCo shall cooperate with each other, and shall cause their Representatives to cooperate with each other, to ensure that (i) HoldCo receives copies of all mail (including mail sent by private delivery and electronic mail correspondence) relating to the VIOC Centers or the Transferred Assets and (ii) Ashland receives all mail addressed to Ashland delivered to the Premises (which HoldCo is hereby authorized to receive and open) that contains information relating to, or of importance to, Ashland (including for financial reporting, accounting or tax purposes) or to subsidiaries, divisions or businesses of Ashland other than the VIOC Centers.
Mail.
 
SECTION 4.10. From time to time after the Closing, as and when requested by any party hereto, each party shall execute and deliver, or cause to be executed and delivered, all such documents and instruments and shall take, or cause to be taken, all such further or other actions, as such other party may reasonably deem necessary or desirable to consummate the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including, (i) in the case of Ashland, executing and delivering to HoldCo such assignments, deeds, Consents and other instruments as HoldCo may reasonably request as necessary or desirable for such purpose and (ii) in the case of HoldCo, executing and delivering to Ashland such assumptions and other instruments as Ashland may reasonably request as necessary or desirable for such purpose. From and after the Closing Date, Ashland will promptly refer all bona fide written inquiries with respect to ownership of the Transferred Assets after the Closing or the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers after the Closing to HoldCo or its designee.
Further Assurances.
 
SECTION 4.11. Prior to the Closing Date, Ashland shall review the terms of each material Contract that relates in part to the VIOC Centers and in part to any other business of Ashland or any of its subsidiaries other than those Contracts identified in Section 4.11 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter (collectively, "") in order to determine whether such Contract should be terminated and replaced on or prior to the Closing Date by a separate Contract relating to the VIOC Centers on the one hand (any such separate Contract being an Assigned Contract, so long
Review of Contracts.
Ashland Joint Contracts
 
as (i) entering into such Contract would not otherwise be in violation of this Agreement and (ii) such Contract does not contain terms that, in the aggregate, are materially less advantageous to the VIOC Centers than the terms under the Contract being terminated and replaced), and a separate Contract relating to such other business of Ashland or any of its subsidiaries on the other hand (any such separate Contract not being an Assigned Contract). If requested by HoldCo or Marathon within 90 days after Ashland notifies HoldCo and Marathon in writing of the specific terms of the Ashland Joint Contracts, Ashland shall continue in effect any Ashland Joint Contract not terminated and replaced in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence, if not prohibited by the terms of such Ashland Joint Contract, until the stated expiration thereof (without regard to any available renewal options); , , that Ashland shall not be prohibited from terminating any such Ashland Joint Contract that relates to a substantial number of Valvoline Instant Oil Change (VIOC) quick-lube service centers owned or operated by Ashland. Each of Ashland and HoldCo shall perform its respective obligations under all such Ashland Joint Contracts so as not to create a default thereunder, and Ashland shall provide HoldCo with rights thereunder consistent with historical practice between the parties with respect thereto, subject to obtaining any necessary Consents from third parties (which Ashland and HoldCo mutually agree to use their reasonable best efforts to obtain) and subject to HoldCo bearing the proportionate expense attributable to such rights consistent with historical practice between the parties with respect thereto; , , that neither Ashland nor HoldCo shall be obligated to extend credit to the other party.
provided
however
provided
however
 
SECTION 4.12. Within 90 days after the date of this Agreement, Ashland shall provide to HoldCo and Marathon a list setting forth all material certificates, licenses, permits, authorizations, Consents and approvals issued or granted to Ashland by, and all material exemptions of, or registrations or filings with, Governmental Entities (""), that are used, held for use or intended to be used in the operation or conduct of the VIOC Centers.
List of Permits.
Permits
 
 
 
SECTION 5.01. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, this Agreement shall automatically terminate, without further action by any party, and the VIOC Assignment and Assumption abandoned at any time prior to the Closing, upon termination of the Master Agreement in accordance with the terms thereof.
Termination.
 
SECTION 5.02. In the event of termination of this Agreement in accordance with Section 5.01, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and have no effect, without any liability or obligation on the part of any party hereto, other than (i) Section 5.01 and this Section 5.02 and (ii) Article VI (General Provisions), which provisions shall survive such termination, and except to the extent that such termination results from the material breach by a party of its representations, warranties or covenants set forth in the Transaction Agreements.
Effect of Termination.
 
 
 
SECTION 6.01. (a) When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article, Section or Exhibit, such reference shall be to an Article of, a Section of, or an Exhibit to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include", "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation". No item contained in any section of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter shall be deemed adequate to disclose an exception to a representation or warranty made in this Agreement, unless (i) such item is included (or expressly incorporated by reference) in a section of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter that is numbered to correspond to the section number assigned to such representation or warranty in this Agreement or (ii) it is readily apparent from a reading of such item that it discloses an exception to such representation or warranty.
Interpretation; VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter; Certain Definitions.
 
(b) For all purposes hereof:
 
"" means the Blanket License Agreement among the parties thereto in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C, together with the forms of License Agreement, Licensee Sign and Equipment Lease Agreement and Licensee Supply Agreement which are attached thereto and incorporated by reference therein.
Blanket License Agreement
 
"" means any liability, obligation or commitment arising under any Environmental Law; , , that Environmental Liability specifically does not include any liability, obligation or commitment relating to any Claim brought by any person other than a Governmental Entity seeking damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, penalties, compensation or injunctive relief resulting from the existence or release of, or exposure to, Hazardous Materials, except where such Claim is brought as a citizen's suit in which no monetary damages are sought for the account of such person. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, any liability, obligation or commitment under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or any comparable state Environmental Law that arises out of, is based on or is in connection with the disposal or Release by Ashland of Hazardous Materials at a location other than the Premises shall be treated as a Retained Liability and shall not be or become an Assumed Liability.
Environmental Liability
provided
however
 
"" means patents (including all reissues, divisions, continuations and extensions thereof), patent applications, trademarks, trademark registrations, trademark applications, servicemarks, servicemark registrations, servicemark applications, trade names, business names, brand names, copyrights, copyright registrations and proprietary designs and design registrations.
Intellectual Property
 
"" means (i) Liens for current Taxes, assessments, governmental charges or levies not yet due, (ii) workers' or unemployment compensation Liens arising in the ordinary course of business, (iii) mechanic's, materialman's, supplier's, vendor's, garnishment or similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business for amounts not yet due, (iv) Liens or other charges or encumbrances as may have arisen in the ordinary course of business, none of which individually or in the
Permitted Liens
 
aggregate are material to the ownership, use or operation of the Transferred Assets, (v) any state of facts which an accurate survey would show which does not materially detract from the value of or materially interfere with the use and operation of the Transferred Assets, (vi) any Liens, easements, rights-of-way, restrictions, rights, leases and other encumbrances affecting title thereto, whether or not of record, which do not materially detract from the value of or materially interfere with the use and operation of the Transferred Assets, (vii) legal highways, zoning and building Laws, ordinances or regulations, (viii) any Liens for real estate Taxes which are not yet due and payable, (ix) Liens set forth in Section 3.02 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter and (x) Liens set forth in Section 3.03 of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter.
 
"" means the Valvoline Instant Oil Change (VIOC) service center business operations (including the marketing and selling of quick service engine oil change services, lubrication services, certain routine maintenance check services, preventive automotive maintenance services, and related products and services) conducted at the locations listed in Section 6.01(b) of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter by Ashland, and the supporting office operations conducted at the locations listed in Section 6.01(b) of the VIOC Centers Disclosure Letter by Ashland, in each case directly or indirectly through certain of its subsidiaries, as of the date of this Agreement.
VIOC Centers
 
"" means a material adverse effect (i) on the business, properties, assets, condition (financial or otherwise), operations or results of operation of the VIOC Centers, taken as a whole, (ii) on the ability of Ashland to perform its obligations under this Agreement and the other agreements and instruments to be executed and delivered in connection with this Agreement or (iii) on the ability of Ashland to consummate the VIOC Assignment and Assumption. For purposes of this Agreement, "VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect" shall exclude any events, changes, effects and developments to the extent relating to (A) the economy of the United States or foreign economies in general, (B) industries in which the VIOC Centers operate and not specifically relating to the VIOC Centers, (C) any announcement by Ashland of the Transactions or of its intention to transfer the VIOC Centers or (D) the execution
VIOC Centers Material Adverse Effect
 
of the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements and the consummation of the Transactions.
 
SECTION 6.02. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other party.
Counterparts.
 
SECTION 6.03. If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any rule or Law, or public policy, all other conditions and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic or legal substance of the Transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party hereto. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement (in accordance with the terms of Section 6.06) so as to effect the original intent of the parties hereto as closely as possible to the end that the Transactions contemplated hereby are fulfilled to the greatest extent possible.
Severability.
 
SECTION 6.04. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, regardless of the laws that might otherwise govern under applicable principles of conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law.
 
SECTION 6.05. This Agreement is not intended to confer any rights or remedies upon any person other than the parties hereto and the Marathon Parties, whom the parties hereto expressly agree are third-party beneficiaries entitled to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. Ashland acknowledges that the rights, titles and interests provided to HoldCo pursuant to this Agreement are a material part of the consideration for the agreements of the Marathon Parties pursuant to the Master Agreement. It is further understood that, subject to Section 14.09 of the Master Agreement, the respective successors and assigns of Ashland and HoldCo shall have all of the rights, interests and obligations of Ashland and HoldCo, respectively, hereunder.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries.
 
SECTION 6.06. This Agreement may not be amended by the parties except pursuant to an instrument in writing signed on behalf of Ashland and HoldCo with the written consent of Marathon.
Amendment.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement, all as of the date first written above.
 
 

EXHIBIT 2.4
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (MALEIC BUSINESS) (this "") dated as of March 18, 2004, between Ashland Inc., a Kentucky corporation (""), and ATB Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Ashland ("").
Agreement
Ashland
HoldCo
 
WHEREAS, simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the parties hereto and certain other parties are entering into a Master Agreement (the ""; terms used but not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Master Agreement); and
Master Agreement
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Master Agreement, Ashland wishes to transfer to HoldCo, and HoldCo wishes to acquire and assume, certain assets and liabilities of the Maleic Business (as defined in Section 6.01(b)) pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
 
SECTION 1.01. On the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement and the Master Agreement, at the Closing, Ashland shall contribute, assign, transfer, convey and deliver to HoldCo, and HoldCo shall acquire from Ashland, all the right, title and interest as of the Closing of Ashland in, to and under the Transferred Assets (as defined in Section 1.02(a)), and HoldCo shall assume the Assumed Liabilities (as defined in Section 1.03(a)). The contribution, assignment, transfer, conveyance and delivery of the Transferred Assets and the assumption of the Assumed Liabilities and the other Transactions contemplated by this Agreement are referred to in this Agreement as the "".
Maleic Assignment and Assumption.
Maleic Assignment and Assumption
 
SECTION 1.02. (a) The term "" means all of Ashland's right, title and interest in, to and under the
Transferred Assets and Excluded Assets.
Transferred Assets
 
following assets, other than the Excluded Assets (as defined in Section 1.02(b)):
 
(i) (A) all real property, leaseholds and other interests (including interests in surface rights and mineral interests) in the real property listed in Section 3.03 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter (as defined in Article III), in each case together with Ashland's right, title and interest in all buildings, structures, improvements, paved parking lots and fixtures thereon, and caverns thereunder, and all other appurtenances thereto (collectively, the ""), and all bridges leading to or from the Premises (and all easements relating thereto) and (B) Ashland's right, title and interest, if any, in, to and under all railroad sidings on the Premises and all pipelines, cabling, wiring and other conduit leading to or from the Premises (and all easements, licenses and permits (to the extent transferable) relating thereto);
Premises
 
(ii) (A) all raw materials, work-in-process, finished goods, supplies, parts, spare parts and other inventories of Ashland that on the Closing Date are located on the Premises and (B) all other raw materials, work-in-process, finished goods, supplies, parts, spare parts and other inventories of Ashland (including in transit, on consignment or in the possession of any third party) on the Closing Date, in the case of this clause (B) that are used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business (collectively, the ""), including any Inventory to be sold to Ashland or any of its affiliates after the Closing pursuant to the Maleic Supply Agreement (as defined in Section 2.02(c)) or otherwise;
Inventory
 
(iii) (A) all other tangible personal property and interests therein, including all machinery, equipment, tools, appliances, telephones, telecommunications equipment, copy machines, fax machines, computers, implements, furniture, furnishings and vehicles, of Ashland that on the Closing Date are located on the Premises and (B) all other tangible personal property and interests therein, including all machinery, equipment, tools, appliances, telephones, telecommunications equipment, copy machines, fax
 
machines, computers, implements, furniture, furnishings and vehicles, of Ashland (including in transit, on consignment or in the possession of any third party) on the Closing Date, in the case of this clause (B) that are used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business, in each case under clause (A) or (B) together with any rights or claims of Ashland arising out of the breach of any express or implied warranty by the manufacturers or sellers of such assets;
 
(iv) all trade secrets, confidential information, inventions, know-how, formulae, proprietary processes, proprietary procedures, research records, records of inventions, test information, market surveys and marketing know-how (collectively, "") of Ashland, in each case that are used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business (the "");
Technology
Assigned Technology
 
(v) to the extent that such Permits (as defined in Section 3.06) are transferable, all Permits of Ashland that are used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business (the "");
Assigned Permits
 
(vi) (A) all contracts, leases, subleases, licenses, indentures, agreements, commitments and all other legally binding arrangements (""), whether oral or written, to which Ashland is a party or by which Ashland is bound as of the date of this Agreement that are (1) listed in Sections 3.03 or 3.05 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter or (2) of the type specified in any of clauses (i) through (xi) of Section 3.05 but, as a result of the application of any applicable thresholds set forth therein, are not required to be listed in Section 3.05 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter, (B) all other written Contracts (including purchase orders and sales orders) to which Ashland is a party or by which Ashland is bound, in the case of this clause (B) that are entered into after the date of this Agreement, but not in violation or breach of any provision of this Agreement, and that exclusively relate to, or that arise exclusively out of, the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business in the ordinary course of business and (C) all Contracts to which Ashland is a party or
Contracts
 
by which Ashland is bound, in the case of this clause (C) that are entered into after the date of this Agreement and that are to be treated as Assigned Contracts pursuant to Section 4.11 (the "");
Assigned Contracts
 
(vii) all rights of Ashland in and to products sold or leased (including products returned after the Closing and rights of rescission, replevin and reclamation) to the extent arising in the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business;
 
(viii) all credits, prepaid expenses, deferred charges, advance payments, security deposits and prepaid items of Ashland, in each case to the extent used, held for use or intended to be used in, or to the extent arising out of, the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business;
 
(ix) all books of account, ledgers, general, financial, accounting and personnel records, files, invoices, customers' and suppliers' lists, other distribution lists, billing records, sales and promotional literature, manuals, customer and supplier correspondence, sales records, credit data and other information relating to present or past customers, cost and pricing information, equipment maintenance data, purchasing records and information, business plans, payroll and personnel records, purchase orders, sales forms, artwork, photography, log books, environmental, health and safety audit procedures, schedules, reports, protocols and findings pertaining to the Maleic Business or the Transferred Assets (including records of spills or other releases or discharges into the atmosphere, records of environmental, safety or health reports to or from Governmental Entities regarding the Maleic Business or the Transferred Assets (including notices of violation), and correspondence, notices and orders of an environmental, safety or health nature regarding the Maleic Business or the Transferred Assets) and other similar property, rights and information of Ashland, in each case that are used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in, or that arise exclusively out of, the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business (the "");
Records
 
(x) all accounts receivable of Ashland as of the close of business on the Closing Date to the extent arising out of the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business (the "");
Receivables
 
(xi) all goodwill and going concern value of Ashland generated exclusively by, or associated exclusively with, the Maleic Business;
 
(xii) all rights, claims and credits of Ashland to the extent relating to any other Transferred Asset or any Assumed Liability (other than any such items arising under insurance policies), including any such items arising under any guarantee, warranty, indemnity or similar right in favor of Ashland in respect of any other Transferred Asset or any Assumed Liability; and
 
(xiii) all other or additional privileges, rights, interests, properties and assets of Ashland of every kind and description and wherever located, in each case that are used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in, or that arise exclusively out of, the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business.
 
(b) The term "" means:
Excluded Assets
 
(i) all assets identified in Section 1.02(b) of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter;
 
(ii) all cash and cash equivalents of Ashland;
 
(iii) all rights, claims and credits of Ashland to the extent relating to any other Excluded Asset or any Retained Liability (as defined in Section 1.03(b)), including any such items arising under insurance policies and any guarantee, warranty, indemnity or similar right in favor of Ashland in respect of any other Excluded Asset or any Retained Liability;
 
(iv) all collective bargaining agreements and other Contracts with any labor union that cover one or more Active Maleic Business Employees (as defined in Section 4.03(a)) and all Contracts relating to compensation, bonus or severance to which any Active Maleic Business Employee or any person hired to become a Maleic Business Employee (as defined in Section 3.09(a)) is a party;
 
(v) all the assets of the Maleic Pension Plans (as defined in Section 3.09(a)) and all the assets of Ashland and its affiliates under any other Maleic Benefit Plan (as defined in Section 3.09(a));
 
(vi) all rights of Ashland under the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements;
 
(vii) all assets relating to corporate-level services of the type currently provided to the Maleic Business by Ashland or any of its affiliates;
 
(viii) any shares of capital stock of any affiliate of Ashland;
 
(ix) the name and mark "Ashland" (in any style or design), and any name or mark derived from or including the foregoing;
 
(x) all records of Ashland prepared in connection with the Transactions; and
 
(xi) all financial and tax records relating to the Maleic Business to the extent they form part of Ashland's general ledger.
 
SECTION 1.03. (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, HoldCo shall assume, effective as of the Closing, and from and after the Closing, HoldCo shall pay, perform and discharge when due, and indemnify Ashland and its affiliates and each of their respective Representatives against, and defend and hold them harmless from, all of the following liabilities, obligations and commitments of any nature, whether known or unknown, express or implied, primary or secondary, direct or indirect, liquidated, absolute, accrued, contingent or otherwise and whether due or to become due, of Ashland (collectively, the ""), other than any Retained Liabilities:
Assumption of Certain Liabilities.
Assumed Liabilities
 
(i) all liabilities, obligations and commitments of Ashland under the Assigned Contracts to the extent such liabilities, obligations and commitments relate to the period from and after the Closing;
 
(ii) all liabilities, obligations and commitments of Ashland under any maleic anhydride product exchange agreements that are reflected in the Statement (as
 
defined in Section 1.05(a)) in accordance with Section 1.05;
 
(iii) all liabilities, obligations and commitments of Ashland to the extent expressly assumed by HoldCo in accordance with Section 4.03;
 
(iv) all Environmental Liabilities (as defined in Section 6.01(b)) of Ashland to the extent they arise out of both (A) the operation of any of the Transferred Assets or the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business and (B) either (x) events occurring or circumstances or conditions arising from and after the Closing, or (y) events occurring or circumstances or conditions arising prior to the Closing, but only, in the case of this clause (B)(y), to the extent set forth in the table below (, , that to the extent the same Environmental Liability is described in both clauses (x) and (y) of this Section 1.03(a)(iv)(B), such Environmental Liability will be apportioned between HoldCo and Ashland in proportion to the extent to which the activities of each party contributed to the cause of the Environmental Liability, taking into account all pertinent factors, including the length of ownership by HoldCo and Ashland of the relevant property during the time of the event or occurrence, or the development of the circumstance or condition, giving rise to the Environmental Liability and the use made of such property by the parties hereto):
provided
however
 
 
; and
 
(v) all other liabilities, obligations and commitments of Ashland to the extent such liabilities, obligations and commitments relate to or arise out of the operation of any of the Transferred Assets or the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business, in each case from and after the Closing.
 
(b) Notwithstanding Section 1.03(a), or any other provision of this Agreement, HoldCo shall not assume, and Ashland shall pay, perform and discharge when due, and indemnify HoldCo and its affiliates and each of their respective Representatives against, and defend and hold them harmless from, any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland or the Maleic Business of any nature, whether known or unknown, express or implied, primary or secondary, direct or indirect, liquidated, absolute, accrued, contingent or otherwise, and whether due or to become due, except the Assumed Liabilities (collectively, the ""). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Retained Liabilities include:
Retained Liabilities
 
(i) any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland to the extent arising out of the operation or
 
conduct by Ashland or any of its affiliates of any business other than the Maleic Business;
 
(ii) all accounts payable of Ashland to the extent arising out of the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business prior to the Closing;
 
(iii) any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland (A) to the extent arising out of any actual or alleged breach by Ashland of, or nonperformance by Ashland under, any Contract (including any Assigned Contract) prior to the Closing or (B) under any Assigned Contract to the extent such liability, obligation or commitment relates to the period prior to the Closing;
 
(iv) any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland arising out of any warranty claim, suit, action, proceeding, investigation, governmental action or other cause of action or claim associated with or relating to the Maleic Business or the Transferred Assets (a "") to the extent arising out of actions, omissions or conditions occurring or existing on or prior to the Closing Date;
Claim
 
(v) any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland to the extent such liability, obligation or commitment relates to, or arises out of, any Excluded Asset, or arises out of the ownership or operation by Ashland of any of the Excluded Assets;
 
(vi) except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 4.03, any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland arising under any Maleic Benefit Plan;
 
(vii) any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland to any of its divisions, subsidiaries or affiliates;
 
(viii) any liability, obligation or commitment of Ashland or any of its affiliates under any of the Transaction Agreements or any of the Ancillary Agreements;
 
(ix) the amount, if any, equal to the aggregate book value (as of the Closing Date) of all Receivables that are not collected after the Closing Date and remain outstanding for a period of more than 60 days
 
after their respective due dates (as reflected in the books and records of the Maleic Business) notwithstanding that HoldCo has made reasonable efforts to collect such Receivables, which amount shall be promptly paid by Ashland to HoldCo and, until paid, shall be deemed for all purposes of this Agreement to be a Retained Liability; , , in the event any one or more of the Receivables become Retained Liabilities under this clause (ix), promptly following Ashland's payment to HoldCo with respect to such Receivables under this clause (ix), HoldCo shall assign all of its rights, title and interests in, to and under such Receivables and, to the extent HoldCo thereafter receives any payments from the relevant customers on account of such Receivables, HoldCo shall promptly forward such payments to Ashland; and
provided
however
 
(x) any Environmental Liability arising out of events occurring or circumstances or conditions arising prior to the Closing except for Environmental Liabilities that are Assumed Liabilities pursuant to Section 1.03(a)(iv); , , an Environmental Liability that otherwise would be considered a Retained Liability under this Section 1.03(b)(x) shall be an Assumed Liability and shall not be a Retained Liability if the event, circumstance or condition that gave rise to such Environmental Liability (A) is the result of a change in use after the Closing Date of (x) any portion of the Premises consisting of the parcels of real property on which the maleic anhydride plant located in Neal, West Virginia (the "") is located (which parcels are identified as such in Section 3.03 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter) to a use substantially unrelated to the use of such Premises as of the Closing Date or (y) any other portion of the Premises to a use other than an industrial use or (B) was discovered as a result of a Phase II or other intrusive sampling, testing or investigation conducted after the Closing Date (collectively, "") except for Environmental Tests undertaken (x) to respond to, investigate, or otherwise remediate environmental conditions or contamination that are on the Closing Date in violation of the standards imposed by applicable Environmental Laws (as defined in Section 3.11(b)), (y) as required by Environmental
provided
however
Plant
Environmental Tests
 
Laws or in response to an inquiry, request, claim or demand by a Governmental Entity or as a reasonable response to any claim or demand by any other person that is not an affiliate of HoldCo or (z) in connection with a condition first discovered as a result of construction activities commencing after the Closing Date at, on or beneath the Premises, so long as such construction activities are undertaken in connection with (1) with respect to any portion of the Premises consisting of the parcels of real property on which the Plant is located, a use substantially related to the use of such Premises as of the Closing Date or (2) with respect to any other portion of the Premises, an industrial use of such Premises.
 
(c) HoldCo shall acquire the Transferred Assets free and clear of all liabilities, obligations and commitments of Ashland, other than the Assumed Liabilities, and free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Liens (as defined in Section 6.01(b)) and other than any Lien pursuant to the HoldCo Borrowing arrangements or arising from actions or inactions of any of the Marathon Parties or their affiliates (and not of any of the Ashland Parties or their affiliates).
 
SECTION 1.04. (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, this Agreement shall not constitute an agreement to assign any asset or any claim or right or any benefit arising under or resulting from such asset, or to assume any liability, obligation or commitment, if an attempted assignment or assumption thereof, without the Consent of a third party, would constitute a breach or other contravention of the rights of such third party, would be ineffective with respect to any party to an agreement concerning such asset, liability, obligation or commitment, or would in any way adversely affect the rights of Ashland or, upon transfer, HoldCo with respect to such asset, liability, obligation or commitment. If any transfer or assignment by Ashland, or any assumption by HoldCo, of any interest in, or liability, obligation or commitment under, any asset requires the Consent of a third party, then such transfer or assignment or assumption shall be made subject to such Consent being obtained. Except as set forth in Section 1.04(b), Ashland shall not have any liability or obligation under this Agreement arising out of or relating to the failure to obtain any such Consent that may be
Consents of Third Parties.
 
required in connection with the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement or because of any circumstances resulting therefrom, in each case so long as Ashland shall have complied with its obligation under Section 9.11 of the Master Agreement to use its reasonable best efforts to obtain such Consents. Subject to Section 1.04(b), no representation, warranty or covenant of Ashland herein shall be breached or deemed breached, and no condition shall be deemed not satisfied, as a result of (i) the failure to obtain any such Consent, (ii) any circumstances resulting therefrom or (iii) any Claim or investigation commenced or threatened by or on behalf of any person arising out of or relating to the failure to obtain any such Consent or any circumstances resulting therefrom, in each case so long as Ashland shall have complied with its obligation under Section 9.11 of the Master Agreement to use its reasonable best efforts to obtain such Consents.
 
(b) If any such Consent is not obtained prior to the Closing, the Closing shall nonetheless take place on the terms set forth herein and, thereafter, Ashland and HoldCo shall cooperate (at their own expense) in any lawful and reasonable arrangement proposed by HoldCo under which HoldCo shall obtain the economic claims, rights and benefits under the asset, claim or right with respect to which the Consent has not been obtained in accordance with this Agreement. Such reasonable arrangement may include (i) the subcontracting, sublicensing or subleasing to HoldCo of any and all rights of Ashland against the other party to such third-party agreement arising out of a breach or cancellation thereof by the other party and (ii) the enforcement by Ashland of such rights. With respect to the Assigned Contracts listed in Section 1.04(b) of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter, if the provision of such economic claims, rights and benefits to HoldCo shall violate the rights of such other party, Ashland shall otherwise compensate HoldCo for the reasonable value, if any, of such economic claims, rights and benefits, so long as HoldCo shall have complied with its obligations under the first sentence of this Section 1.04(b).
 
SECTION 1.05. (a) Within 60 days after the Closing Date, Ashland shall prepare and deliver to HoldCo a statement (the ""), setting forth Current Assets (as defined in Section 1.05(d)) as of the close of business on the Closing Date (""). A physical inventory
Closing Current Assets Adjustment.
Statement
Closing Current Assets
 
shall be conducted jointly by Ashland and Marathon on or prior to the Closing Date, in accordance with Section 1.05(a) of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter, for the purpose of preparing the Statement.
 
(b) During the 30-day period following HoldCo's receipt of the Statement, HoldCo and its Representatives shall be permitted to review the working papers relating to the Statement. The Statement shall become final and binding upon the parties on the 15th day following delivery thereof, unless HoldCo gives written notice of its disagreement with the Statement (a "") to Ashland prior to such date. Any Notice of Disagreement shall (i) specify in reasonable detail the nature of any disagreement so asserted and (ii) only include disagreements based on mathematical errors or based on Closing Current Assets not being calculated in accordance with this Section 1.05. If a Notice of Disagreement is received by Ashland in a timely manner, then the Statement (as revised in accordance with this sentence) shall become final and binding upon Ashland and HoldCo on the earlier of (A) the date Ashland and HoldCo resolve in writing any differences they have with respect to the matters specified in the Notice of Disagreement or (B) the date any disputed matters are finally resolved in writing by the Accounting Firm (as defined below). During the 30-day period following the delivery of a Notice of Disagreement, Ashland and HoldCo shall seek in good faith to resolve in writing any differences that they may have with respect to the matters specified in the Notice of Disagreement. At the end of such 30-day period, Ashland and HoldCo shall submit to an independent accounting firm (the "") for arbitration any and all matters that remain in dispute and were properly included in the Notice of Disagreement, in the form of a written brief. The Accounting Firm shall be KPMG LLP or, if such firm is unable or unwilling to act, such other nationally recognized independent public accounting firm as shall be agreed upon by the parties hereto in writing. Ashland and HoldCo shall instruct the Accounting Firm to render a decision resolving the matters submitted to the Accounting Firm within 30 days following submission. Judgment may be entered upon the determination of the Accounting Firm in any court having jurisdiction over the party against which such determination is to be enforced. The cost of any arbitration (including the fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm and reasonable attorney fees and expenses
Notice of Disagreement
Accounting Firm
 
of the parties) pursuant to this Section 1.05 shall be borne by HoldCo and Ashland in inverse proportion as they may prevail on matters resolved by the Accounting Firm, which proportionate allocations shall also be determined by the Accounting Firm at the time the determination of the Accounting Firm is rendered on the merits of the matters submitted. The fees and disbursements of Ashland's Representatives incurred in connection with their preparation of the Statement and their review of any Notice of Disagreement shall be borne by Ashland, and the fees and disbursements of HoldCo's Representatives incurred in connection with its review of the Statement shall be borne by HoldCo.
 
(c) If Closing Current Assets is less than the line item comprising Current Assets on the Balance Sheet (as defined in Section 3.01) (""), Ashland shall, and if Closing Current Assets is more than Target Current Assets, HoldCo shall, within 10 business days after the Statement becomes final and binding on the parties, make payment by wire transfer in immediately available funds of the amount of such difference, together with interest thereon at a rate equal to the rate of interest from time to time announced publicly by Citibank, N.A., as its prime rate, calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed divided by 365, from the Closing Date to the date of payment.
Target Current Assets
 
(d) The term "" means the current assets of the Maleic Business, calculated in the same way, using the same methods, as the line item comprising current assets on the Balance Sheet, other than any current assets relating to any Tax (as defined in the Tax Matters Agreement); , , that any liabilities, obligations or commitments of Ashland under any maleic anhydride product exchange agreements in effect as of the Closing Date shall be deducted, on a dollar for dollar basis, from current assets for purposes of determining Closing Current Assets under this Section 1.05. The foregoing principles are referred to in this Agreement as the "". The parties acknowledge that the adjustment contemplated by this Section 1.05 is intended solely to show the change in Current Assets from the date of the Balance Sheet to the Closing Date, and that such change can only be measured if the calculation is done in the same way, using the same methods, for both dates. The scope of the disputes to be resolved by the Accounting
Current Assets
provided
however
Balance Sheet Principles
 
Firm shall be limited to whether Closing Current Assets was calculated in accordance with the Balance Sheet Principles, and whether there were mathematical errors in the Statement, and the Accounting Firm is not to make any other determination, including any determination as to whether GAAP was followed for the Balance Sheet or the Statement. Any items on or omissions from the Balance Sheet that are based upon errors of fact or mathematical errors or that are not in accordance with GAAP shall be retained for purposes of calculating Closing Current Assets.
 
(e) Following the Closing, HoldCo shall not modify the accounting books and records of the Maleic Business on which the Statement is to be based that would in any way affect the Balance Sheet or the Statement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no changes shall be made in any reserve or other account existing as of the date of the Balance Sheet that would in any way affect the Balance Sheet or the Statement except, in the case of the Statement, as a result of events occurring after the date of the Balance Sheet and, in such event, only in a manner consistent with past practices of the Maleic Business. HoldCo shall cooperate in the preparation of the Statement. HoldCo acknowledges that Ashland shall have the primary responsibility and authority for preparing the Statement. During the period of time from and after the Closing Date through the resolution of any adjustment with respect to Closing Current Assets contemplated by this Section 1.05, HoldCo shall afford to Ashland and its Representatives reasonable access during normal business hours to all the properties, books, contracts, personnel and records of the Maleic Business relevant to the preparation of the Statement and the adjustment contemplated by this Section 1.05.
 
SECTION 1.06. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the rights, responsibilities and obligations of the parties with respect to any Taxes or Tax Items (in each case as defined in the Tax Matters Agreement) related to or arising from the ownership or operation of the Maleic Business shall be determined pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement.
Tax Matters.
 
SECTION 1.07.
Neville Island Maleic Assets Provisions.
 
(a) During the Option Period (as defined below), HoldCo shall be entitled to elect to purchase from Ashland
 
all of Ashland's right, title and interest in, to and under the assets of the maleic anhydride portion of the plant (the "") located at Neville Island, Pennsylvania and the assets that are used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in the maintenance or operation of the Neville Island Maleic Facility (collectively, the "") by providing written notice to Ashland of such election (the ""). For the avoidance of doubt, the Neville Island Maleic Assets shall not include any of the assets that are used, held for use or intended to be used in the unsaturated polyester resin portion of the plant located at Neville Island, Pennsylvania. If HoldCo exercises its right to purchase hereunder, (i) the purchase price for the Neville Island Maleic Assets shall be equal to the fair market value of the Neville Island Maleic Assets, determined, as of the date on which HoldCo delivers the Option Notice to Ashland, by Morgan Joseph & Co. Inc. (or such other independent investment banking or appraisal firm as may be agreed upon by Ashland and HoldCo after the Closing Date), using the same valuation methodology used by Morgan Joseph & Co. Inc. for purposes of establishing the value of the Maleic Business in connection with the Transactions being effected on the Closing Date under the Master Agreement, (ii) Ashland and HoldCo shall use their reasonable best efforts to cause the closing of the purchase and sale of the Neville Island Maleic Assets to occur within 60 days of the date on which HoldCo delivers the Option Notice to Ashland and (iii) the other terms of the purchase and sale transaction shall be negotiated in good faith between Ashland and HoldCo, provided that such terms and conditions shall be substantially consistent with the terms and conditions applicable to the Transactions effected pursuant to this Agreement. Ashland shall provide HoldCo at least two months' prior written notice of the commencement of permanent demolition or disassembly of the Neville Island Maleic Facility. "" means the period beginning on the Closing Date and terminating and expiring upon the earliest to occur of (i) 60 days after the date of a prior written notice to HoldCo by Ashland of the commencement of permanent demolition or disassembly of the Neville Island Maleic Facility (provided that commencement of such permanent demolition or disassembly of the Neville Island Maleic Facility occurs promptly thereafter), (ii) the sale of the Neville Island Maleic Assets to HoldCo or a third party (provided that, in the case of a sale to a third party, Ashland shall have
Neville Island Maleic Facility
Neville Island Maleic Assets
Option Notice
Option Period
 
complied with Section 1.07(b))or (iii) the fifth anniversary of the Closing Date.
 
(b) Ashland shall be free to negotiate with any third party to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or any portion of the Neville Island Maleic Assets. Not fewer than 30 days nor more than 90 days prior to any proposed sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Neville Island Maleic Assets to a third party prior to the expiration of the Option Period, Ashland shall provide HoldCo a written notice (the ""), which shall (i) set forth the name of the proposed purchaser and the principal terms and conditions of the proposed transaction, including the consideration proposed to be received by Ashland in such transaction and the proposed date for the closing of such transaction, and (ii) offer to sell the Neville Island Maleic Assets to HoldCo on the same terms and conditions described in the Proposed Sale Notice (, , that if any part of the consideration to be received by Ashland described in the Proposed Sale Notice is in a form other than cash, HoldCo shall be entitled to pay cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such consideration, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm agreed upon by HoldCo and Ashland). If HoldCo desires to purchase the Neville Island Maleic Assets on such terms and conditions, it shall provide written notice of its election to do so (the "") to Ashland on or before the 30th day after the date HoldCo receives the Proposed Sale Notice, and thereafter Ashland and HoldCo shall use their reasonable best efforts to cause the closing of HoldCo's purchase on such terms and conditions to occur on the proposed date for the closing of the transaction set forth in the Proposed Sale Notice. In the event HoldCo does not give Ashland the Exercise Notice or an Option Notice on or prior to the 30th day after the date HoldCo receives the Proposed Sale Notice, then, during the immediately following 60-day period, Ashland may sell all or substantially all of the Neville Island Maleic Assets to the proposed purchaser named in the Proposed Sale Notice on terms and conditions which are not materially less favorable, taken as a whole, to such proposed purchaser than the terms and conditions set forth in the Proposed Sale Notice. In the event that Ashland shall not have consummated the sale of all or substantially all of the Neville Island Maleic Assets to such proposed purchaser
Proposed Sale Notice
provided
however
Exercise Notice
 
within such 60-day period, any subsequent proposed sale of all or substantially all of the Neville Island Maleic Assets shall once again be subject to the terms of this Section 1.07(b).
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, HoldCo agrees that the provisions of this Section 1.07 shall be subject in all respects (i) to the provisions of any Contract relating to the Neville Island Maleic Assets entered into prior to the date of this Agreement, including each of the Asset Purchase Agreement, the Services Agreement, the Irrevocable Easement Agreement and the Confidentiality Agreement (as such Contracts may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time) in each case dated as of April 28, 1995, between Aristech Chemical Corporation and Ashland, (ii) to the rights, responsibilities and obligations of the parties to each such agreement and their respective successors and assigns and (iii) to the receipt of all Consents that must be obtained by virtue of the consummation of the sale, transfer or other disposition of any of the Neville Island Maleic Assets. HoldCo acknowledges that the Consent of Sunoco, Inc. shall be required in order to consummate the sale, transfer or other disposition of any of the Neville Island Maleic Assets by Ashland to HoldCo. Ashland makes no representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, relating to the receipt of such Consent. Ashland and HoldCo shall each use their reasonable best efforts to obtain such Consent; , , that they shall not be required to make any payment to any person in order to obtain such Consent. Ashland shall not have any liability or obligation whatsoever arising out of or relating to any failure to obtain such Consent, so long as Ashland shall have used its reasonable best efforts to obtain such Consent.
provided
however
 
 
 
SECTION 2.01. The closing of the Maleic Assignment and Assumption will occur at the Closing, subject only to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions to Closing in accordance with the terms of the Master Agreement.
Closing Date.
 
SECTION 2.02. At the Closing, in accordance with Section 1.01(a) of the Master Agreement:
Transactions To Be Effected at the Closing.
 
(a) Ashland shall deliver to HoldCo an executed deed (in recordable form) in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A;
 
(b) Ashland and HoldCo shall enter into an assignment and assumption document, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, providing for the assignment of the Transferred Assets and the assumption of the Assumed Liabilities;
 
(c) The parties thereto shall enter into a supply agreement in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C (the ""); and
Maleic Supply Agreement
 
(d) The parties thereto shall enter into a transition services agreement in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D (the "").
Transition Services Agreement
 
 
 
Ashland hereby represents and warrants to HoldCo that, as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as if made on the Closing Date (except to the extent any such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, in which case as of such earlier date), except as set forth in the letter referencing this Agreement, dated as of the date of this Agreement, from Ashland to HoldCo (the ""):
Maleic Business Disclosure Letter
 
SECTION 3.01. Section 3.01 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter sets forth the unaudited combined statement of tangible assets to be sold as of September 30, 2003 (the ""), the unaudited combined statement of tangible assets to be sold as of December 31, 2003, the unaudited combined statement of income before taxes for the year ended September 30, 2003 and the unaudited combined statement of income before taxes for the three months ended December 31, 2003, together with the notes to such financial statements, in each case of the Maleic Business (such financial statements
Financial Statements.
Balance Sheet
 
and the notes thereto, the ""). The Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the tangible assets to be sold (in each case with Ashland's aggregate liabilities, obligations and commitments under maleic anhydride product exchange agreements outstanding as of the applicable balance sheet date being reflected as an offset to Ashland's aggregate accounts receivable relating to maleic anhydride product exchange agreements outstanding as of the applicable balance sheet date) and income before taxes of the Maleic Business as of the dates and for the periods indicated, in conformity with GAAP (subject, in the case of the interim financial statements as of and for the period ended December 31, 2003, to normal, recurring year-end adjustments).
Financial Statements
 
SECTION 3.02. Ashland has, or as of the Closing Date will have, and at the Closing Ashland will transfer (subject to the consummation of the Closing on the Closing Date in accordance with the terms of Article I of the Master Agreement) to HoldCo, good and valid title to all Transferred Assets in each case free and clear of all Liens (other than any Lien pursuant to the HoldCo Borrowing arrangements or arising from actions or inactions of any of the Marathon Parties or their affiliates (and not of any of the Ashland Parties or their affiliates)), except Permitted Liens. This Section 3.02 does not relate to real property or interests in real property, such items being the subject of Section 3.03.
Assets Other than Real Property Interests.
 
SECTION 3.03. (a) Section 3.03 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter sets forth a complete list of all real property and interests in real property owned in fee by Ashland and any of the other Ashland Parties and used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business, other than any such property or interest constituting an Excluded Asset (individually, an ""). Section 3.03 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter sets forth a complete list of all real property and interests in real property leased by Ashland and used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business, other than any such property or interest constituting an Excluded Asset (individually, a "").
Real Property.
Owned Property
Leased Property
 
(b) Ashland has, or as of the Closing Date will have, and at the Closing Ashland will transfer (subject to the consummation of the Closing on the Closing Date in accordance with the terms of Article I of the Master Agreement) to HoldCo, good and marketable fee title to all Owned Property and good and valid title to the leasehold estates in all Leased Property, in each case free and clear of all Liens (other than any Lien pursuant to the HoldCo Borrowing arrangements or arising from actions or inactions of any of the Marathon Parties or their affiliates (and not of any of the Ashland Parties or their affiliates)), except Permitted Liens.
 
SECTION 3.04. (a) The conduct of the Maleic Business as presently conducted does not violate, conflict with or infringe the Intellectual Property (as defined in Section 6.01(b)) of any other person, except for such violations, conflicts or infringements that have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect (as defined in Section 6.01(b)). During the past 12 months Ashland has not received any written communication alleging that Ashland has in the conduct of the Maleic Business violated any rights relating to Intellectual Property of any other person. Except for the Assigned Technology, there is no material Technology or Intellectual Property of Ashland that is used, held for use or intended to be used in the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business.
Intellectual Property; Technology.
 
(b) Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect, (i) all confidential Assigned Technology has been maintained in confidence in accordance with protection procedures customarily used by Ashland to protect rights of like importance; (ii) Ashland has not granted any license of any kind relating to any Assigned Technology, except non-exclusive licenses to end-users in the ordinary course of business; (iii) no Claim against or involving Ashland regarding the ownership, validity, enforceability, effectiveness or use of any Assigned Technology is pending or, to the knowledge of Ashland, threatened; and (iv) no Consent of any person will be required for the use of the Assigned Technology by HoldCo in connection with the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business immediately following the Closing as presently conducted by Ashland.
 
SECTION 3.05. (a) Except for Contracts that will not be binding on the Transferred
Contracts.
 
Assets or the Maleic Business after the Closing, Ashland is not a party to or bound by any Contract that is used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in, or that arises exclusively out of, the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business (other than (x) the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements and (y) Assigned Contracts entered into after the date of this Agreement in the ordinary course of business and not otherwise in violation of this Agreement) that is:
 
(i) a covenant not to compete that limits the conduct of the Maleic Business as presently conducted;
 
(ii) a Contract with (A) Ashland or any affiliate of Ashland or (B) any officer, director or employee of Ashland or any of its affiliates, in each case other than Contracts that will be terminated as of the Closing;
 
(iii) a lease, sublease or similar Contract with any person under which Ashland is a lessor or sublessor of, or makes available for use to any person, all or any portion of the Premises;
 
(iv) a lease, sublease or similar Contract with any person under which (A) Ashland is lessee of, or holds or uses, any machinery, equipment, vehicle or other tangible personal property owned by any person or (B) Ashland is a lessor or sublessor of, or makes available for use by any person, any tangible personal property owned or leased by Ashland, in any such case that has an aggregate future liability or receivable, as the case may be, in excess of $100,000 and is not terminable by Ashland by notice of not more than 30 days without payment or penalty of any kind;
 
(v) (A) a continuing Contract for the future purchase of materials, supplies or equipment (other than purchase orders for inventory in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice), (B) a management, service, consulting or other similar Contract or (C) an advertising agreement or arrangement, in any such case that has an aggregate future liability to any person in excess of $100,000 and is not terminable by Ashland by notice of not more than 30 days without payment or penalty of any kind;
 
(vi) a Contract (including a sales order) involving the obligation of Ashland to deliver products or services for payment of more than $100,000 or extending for a term more than 90 days from the date of this Agreement (unless terminable without payment or penalty of any kind upon no more than 30 days' notice);
 
(vii) (A) a Contract under which Ashland has borrowed any money from, or issued any note, bond, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness to, any person or (B) any other note, bond, debenture, letter of credit, financial assurance requirement or other evidence of indebtedness issued to any person;
 
(viii) a Contract (including any so-called take-or-pay or keepwell agreement) under which (A) any person has directly or indirectly guaranteed indebtedness, liabilities or obligations of Ashland or (B) Ashland has directly or indirectly guaranteed indebtedness, liabilities or obligations of any other person (in each case other than endorsements for the purpose of collection in the ordinary course of business);
 
(ix) a Contract under which Ashland has, directly or indirectly, made any advance, loan, extension of credit or capital contribution to, or other investment in, any person (other than extensions of trade credit in the ordinary course of the Maleic Business), in any such case that, individually, is in excess of $100,000;
 
(x) a Contract granting a Lien (other than Permitted Liens) upon the Premises; or
 
(xi) any other Contract that has an aggregate future liability to any person (other than Ashland) in excess of $100,000 and is not terminable by Ashland by notice of not more than 30 days without payment or penalty of any kind (other than purchase orders and sales orders).
 
As of the date of this Agreement, neither the Transferred Assets nor the Maleic Business is bound by or subject to any Contract of any of the types referred to in clauses (i) through (xi) of this Section 3.05(a), applying the thresholds set forth therein, that will be binding on any
 
of the Transferred Assets or the Maleic Business after the Closing Date.
 
(b) All Contracts listed in the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter are valid, binding and in full force and effect and are enforceable by Ashland in accordance with their terms subject, as to enforcement, to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and to equitable principles of general applicability, except for such failures to be valid, binding, in full force and effect or enforceable that have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect. Ashland has performed all obligations required to be performed by it to date under the Assigned Contracts, and it is not in breach or default thereunder and, to the knowledge of Ashland, no other party to any Assigned Contract is in breach or default thereunder, in each case except for such noncompliance, breaches and defaults that have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect. Ashland has not received any notice of the intention of any party to terminate any Assigned Contract listed in any section of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter.
 
(c) Section 3.05(c) of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter sets forth each Assigned Contract with respect to which the Consent of the other party or parties thereto must be obtained by virtue of the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the consummation of the Maleic Assignment and Assumption to avoid the invalidity of the transfer of such Contract, the termination thereof, a breach, violation or default thereunder or any other change or modification to the terms thereof, other than any such invalidity, termination, breach, violation, default, change or modification that would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect.
 
SECTION 3.06. Section 3.06 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter sets forth all certificates, licenses, permits, authorizations, Consents and approvals issued or granted to Ashland by, and all exemptions of, or registrations or filings with, Governmental Entities (""), that are used, held for use or intended to be used exclusively in the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business, except for those Permits the absence of which would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect. All such Permits are transferable
Permits.
Permits
 
by Ashland to HoldCo. All Assigned Permits are validly held by Ashland, and Ashland has complied with the terms and conditions thereof, except for any such invalidity or non-compliance that would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect. Ashland has not received written notice of any Claims relating to the revocation or modification of any Assigned Permits except for any such Claims that would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect. None of the Assigned Permits is subject to suspension, modification, revocation or nonrenewal as a result of the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the consummation of the Maleic Assignment and Assumption, except for any such suspensions, modifications, revocations or nonrenewals that would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect. This Section 3.06 does not relate to environmental matters, such items being the subject of Section 3.11(b).
 
SECTION 3.07. The Transferred Assets are in good operating condition and repair (ordinary wear and tear excepted) and are suitable for their current uses, except where the failure of the Transferred Assets to be in good operating condition or repair or to be suitable for such uses would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect.
Condition of Transferred Assets.
 
SECTION 3.08. Section 3.08 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of each Claim pending or, to the knowledge of Ashland, threatened against, or as to which a notice has been received as of the date of this Agreement by, Ashland (and, as to complaints, which have been served on Ashland) and that involves an amount in controversy of more than $100,000. This Section 3.08 does not relate to environmental matters, such items being the subject of Section 3.11(b), or to employee or labor matters, such items being the subject of Section 3.12.
Claims.
 
SECTION 3.09. (a) Section 3.09 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter contains a list of all "employee pension benefit plans" (as defined in Section 3(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("")), maintained or contributed to by Ashland for the benefit of any officers or employees of the Maleic Business ("") and all "employee welfare benefit plans" (as defined in Section
Benefit Plans.
ERISA
Maleic Pension Plans
 
3(1) of ERISA), bonus, stock option, stock purchase, deferred compensation plans or arrangements and other employee fringe benefit plans maintained, or contributed to, by Ashland or any of its affiliates for the benefit of one or more current or former employees of the Maleic Business (other than any former employee of the Maleic Business who became employed by MAP or any of its subsidiaries following termination of employment with Ashland or any of its affiliates) (each, a "") (all the foregoing, including Maleic Pension Plans, being herein called ""). Ashland has provided to Marathon true, complete and correct copies of (i) each Maleic Benefit Plan (or, in the case of any unwritten Maleic Benefit Plans, fair and accurate summary descriptions thereof), (ii) the two most recent annual reports on Form 5500 filed with the Internal Revenue Service with respect to each Maleic Benefit Plan (if any such report was required), (iii) the most recent summary plan description for each Maleic Benefit Plan for which such a summary plan description is required and (iv) each trust agreement, group annuity contract or other funding and financing arrangement relating to any Maleic Benefit Plan.
Maleic Business Employee
Maleic Benefit Plans
 
(b) There does not exist as of the date of this Agreement, nor do any circumstances exist as of the date of this Agreement that would reasonably be expected to result in, any Employee Benefits Liability (as defined below), whether under any Maleic Benefit Plan or otherwise, that would reasonably be expected to become a liability of HoldCo or any of its affiliates at or after the Closing. "" means any liability of Ashland or any entity required to be treated as a single employer under Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code with Ashland prior to the Closing under (i) Sections 302, 405, 409 or Title IV of ERISA, (ii) Section 412, 4971 or 4975 of the Code or (iii) Sections 601 et. seq. and 701 et seq. of ERISA and Section 4980B and Sections 9801 et seq. of the Code.
Employee Benefits Liability
 
SECTION 3.10. From the date of the Balance Sheet to the date of this Agreement, there has not been any event, change, effect or development (i) that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect or (ii) that would have been prohibited by Section 4.01 if the terms of such
Absence of Changes or Events.
 
section had been in effect as of and after the date of the Balance Sheet.
 
SECTION 3.11. (a) The Maleic Business is in compliance with all applicable Laws, including those relating to occupational health and safety, except for instances of noncompliance that would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect. To the knowledge of Ashland, Ashland has not received any written communication from a Governmental Entity that alleges that the Maleic Business is not in compliance in any material respect with any applicable Law that has not been finally resolved with such Governmental Entity. This Section 3.11(a) does not relate to matters with respect to Taxes, which are the subject of the Tax Matters Agreement, or to environmental matters, which are the subject of Section 3.11(b).
Compliance with Laws.
 
(b) Except for such matters that would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect, (i) to the knowledge of Ashland, Ashland has not received any written communication from a Governmental Entity that alleges that the Maleic Business is in violation of any Environmental Law that has not been finally resolved with such Governmental Entity, (ii) Ashland holds all Permits required to conduct the Maleic Business under any applicable Environmental Law, and is and at all times has been in compliance with all Environmental Laws and the terms and conditions of such Permits, (iii) there are no Environmental Claims (as defined below) pending, or to the knowledge of Ashland, threatened against Ashland and (iv) there have been no Releases (as defined below) of any Hazardous Material (as defined below) at or originating from the Premises, and no Hazardous Materials have been handled, generated, stored, transported or disposed of by the Maleic Business, in each case that would reasonably be expected to form the basis of an Environmental Claim against Ashland. The term "" means any and all administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, orders, demands, directives, claims, liens, investigations, proceedings or written notices of noncompliance or violation by or from any person alleging liability of whatever kind or nature arising out of, based on or resulting from (x) the presence or Release of, or exposure to, any Hazardous Materials; or (y) the failure to comply with any Environmental Law. The term "" means all applicable federal,
Environmental Claim
Environmental Laws
 
state, local and foreign laws, rules, regulations, orders, decrees, judgments, legally binding agreements or environmental Permits issued, promulgated or entered into by or with any Governmental Entity, relating to the protection of the environment, the protection of the public welfare from actual or potential exposure, or the effects from exposure, to any actual or potential release, discharge, disposal or emission (whether past or present) of any Hazardous Materials or the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, labeling, storage, disposal, transport or handling of any Hazardous Materials. The term "" means all explosive or regulated radioactive materials or substances, hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or chemicals, petroleum (including crude oil or any fraction thereof) or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, and any other material, chemical substance or waste that in relevant form or concentration is prohibited, limited or regulated (or the cleanup of which can be required) pursuant to any Environmental Law and all substances that require special handling, storage or disposal procedures or whose handling, storage or disposal procedures is in any way regulated, in any case under any applicable Law for the protection of the health, safety and environment. The term "" means any spill, emission, leaking, dumping, injection, deposit, disposal, discharge, dispersal, leaching, emanation or migration of any Hazardous Materials into or through the environment (including ambient air, surface water, ground water, soils, land surface, subsurface strata or workplace).
Hazardous Materials
Release
 
SECTION 3.12. Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect (i) there is not any, and during the past three years there has not been any, labor strike, dispute, work stoppage or lockout pending against the Maleic Business; (ii) to the knowledge of Ashland, no union organizational campaign is in progress with respect to the Maleic Business Employees and no question concerning representation of such employees exists; (iii) Ashland is not engaged in any unfair labor practice in connection with the conduct of the Maleic Business; (iv) there are not any unfair labor practice charges or complaints against Ashland pending before the National Labor Relations Board in connection with the conduct of the Maleic Business; (v) there are not any pending union grievances against Ashland in connection with the conduct of the Maleic
Employee and Labor Matters.
 
Business as to which there is a reasonable possibility of adverse determination; (vi) there are not any pending charges in connection with the conduct of the Maleic Business against Ashland or any Maleic Business Employee before the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or any state or local agency responsible for the prevention of unlawful employment practices; and (vii) Ashland has not received written notice during the past three years of the intent of any Governmental Entity responsible for the enforcement of labor or employment laws to conduct an investigation of the Maleic Business.
 
SECTION 3.13. Except for the exclusion of the Excluded Assets and assuming that (i) HoldCo has the ability to provide to the Maleic Business all corporate-level services of the type that are currently provided to the Maleic Business by Ashland or any of its affiliates and (ii) the services to be provided by Ashland to HoldCo pursuant to the Transition Services Agreement will be provided as contemplated therein, the Transferred Assets are sufficient for the operation and conduct of the Maleic Business immediately following the Closing in substantially the same manner as currently operated and conducted, other than any insufficiency that would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect.
Sufficiency of Transferred Assets.
 
SECTION 3.14. Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect, the Inventory is generally of a quality usable or salable in the ordinary course of the Maleic Business.
Inventory.
 
SECTION 3.15. Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect, the Receivables have been collected, or are valid and enforceable claims arising in the ordinary course of business and are, in the good faith belief of Ashland's management, collectible, in the aggregate respective amounts so reflected on the Balance Sheet, net of the applicable reserves (if any) reflected on the Balance Sheet. Section 3.15 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter sets forth, as of the date of this Agreement, all accounts receivable of Ashland arising out of the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business which presently remain unpaid and are owed by a debtor in any case under the Bankruptcy Code or any other Law relating to bankruptcy or insolvency.
Receivables.
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01. (a) Except for matters set forth in Section 4.01 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter or otherwise contemplated by the Transaction Agreements, from the date of this Agreement to the Closing, Ashland shall conduct the Maleic Business in the usual, regular and ordinary course in substantially the same manner as previously conducted, including completion of the maintenance "turnaround" of the Plant currently scheduled for June 2004 and, to the extent not included in such turnaround, the item referred to in Section 3.10 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter and items 1, 2, 3, 4 (except to the extent that work with respect to such item is projected to be conducted during Ashland's 2005 fiscal year), 5, 6 and 7 in the capital expenditure budget set forth in Section 4.01(a)(v) of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Ashland shall use its reasonable best efforts to (i) preserve the material business relationships of the Maleic Business with customers, suppliers, distributors and others with whom Ashland deals in connection with the conduct of the Maleic Business in the ordinary course of business and retain its present employees who are involved in the operation of the Maleic Business, (ii) maintain the Transferred Assets, including those held under leases, in as good operating condition and repair (ordinary wear and tear excepted) as at present, and maintain all Permits set forth in Section 3.06 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter, (iii) perform in all material respects its obligations under Assigned Contracts and (iv) comply in all material respects with all applicable Laws relating to the Maleic Business or any of the Transferred Assets. In addition, except as set forth in Section 4.01 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter or otherwise contemplated by the Transaction Agreements, Ashland shall not do any of the following in connection with the Maleic Business without the prior written consent of Marathon (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed):
Covenants of Ashland Relating to Conduct of Maleic Business.
 
(i) adopt, establish or amend in any material respect any Maleic Benefit Plan (or any plan that would be a Maleic Benefit Plan if adopted or established) in a manner affecting any Maleic Business
 
Employee, except as required by applicable Law or as would relate to a substantial number of other similarly situated employees of Ashland and its subsidiaries;
 
(ii) grant to any Maleic Business Employee any increase in compensation or benefits, except in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice or as may be required under existing Contracts set forth in Section 3.05 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter and except for any increases for which Ashland shall be solely obligated and which will not result in any incremental compensation that will be payable by HoldCo after the Closing Date pursuant to Section 4.03(a);
 
(iii) subject any Transferred Asset to any Lien of any nature whatsoever that would have been required to be set forth in Sections 3.02 or 3.03 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter if existing on the date of this Agreement;
 
(iv) waive any claims or rights of substantial value to the extent relating to any Transferred Asset;
 
(v) make or incur any capital expenditures (of a non-emergency nature) that relate to the Maleic Business and that are not reflected in the capital expenditure budget set forth in Section 4.01(a)(v) of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter and that, individually, are in excess of $100,000 or that, in the aggregate, are in excess of $500,000, except for any such capital expenditures for which Ashland shall be solely obligated, , , that if Ashland makes or incurs a capital expenditure that relates exclusively to the Maleic Business and is not reflected in the capital expenditure budget set forth in Section 4.01(a)(v) of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter, and if Marathon agrees in writing to cause HoldCo to reimburse Ashland for such capital expenditure, then HoldCo shall, promptly after the Closing, reimburse Ashland for such capital expenditure;
provided
however
 
(vi) sell, lease, license or otherwise dispose of any Transferred Assets, except (A) inventory, supplies and obsolete or excess equipment sold or disposed of in the ordinary course of business and (B) leases
 
entered into in the ordinary course of business with aggregate annual lease payments not in excess of $50,000;
 
(vii) enter into or amend any employee collective bargaining agreement or other Contract with any labor union;
 
(viii) commit an intentional material breach of or waive any material rights under any material Assigned Contract or any material Permit, or amend or terminate any material Assigned Contract or any material Permit if the result of any such amendment or termination would be materially adverse to HoldCo; or
 
(ix) authorize, or commit or agree to take, any of the foregoing actions.
 
(b) Ashland shall promptly advise Marathon in writing of any change or event that has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect.
Advice of Changes.
 
(c) Ashland shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep, or to cause to be kept, all insurance policies currently maintained with respect to the Transferred Assets (the ""), or suitable replacements thereof, in full force and effect without interruption through the close of business on the Closing Date; it being understood that any and all Ashland Insurance Policies are owned and maintained by Ashland and its affiliates (and do not exclusively relate to the Maleic Business). HoldCo will not have any rights under the Ashland Insurance Policies from and after the Closing Date.
Insurance.
Ashland Insurance Policies
 
(d) During the 90-day period following the date of this Agreement, Ashland shall afford to HoldCo, Marathon and their respective Representatives reasonable access during normal business hours to the Premises for the purpose of conducting an ALTA land title survey (at Marathon's expense) of the Premises and all appurtenant easements. Following the completion of that survey, a proper legal description of the Premises shall be prepared and shall be attached to the deed referred to in Section 2.02(a).
Survey.
 
SECTION 4.02. After the Closing, if Ashland or any of its affiliates receive any
Refunds and Remittances.
 
refund or other amount which is a Transferred Asset or is otherwise properly due and owing to HoldCo or any of its affiliates in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, Ashland promptly shall remit, or shall cause to be remitted, such amount to HoldCo. After the Closing, if HoldCo or any of its affiliates receive any refund or other amount which is an Excluded Asset or is otherwise properly due and owing to Ashland or any of its affiliates in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, HoldCo promptly shall remit, or shall cause to be remitted, such amount to Ashland. After the Closing, if HoldCo or any of its affiliates receive any refund or other amount which is related to claims (including workers' compensation), litigation, insurance or other matters for which Ashland or any of its affiliates is responsible hereunder, and which amount is not a Transferred Asset, or is otherwise properly due and owing to Ashland or any of its affiliates in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, HoldCo promptly shall remit, or cause to be remitted, such amount to Ashland. After the Closing, if Ashland or any of its affiliates receive any refund or other amount which is related to claims (including workers' compensation), litigation, insurance or other matters for which HoldCo or any of its affiliates is responsible hereunder, and which amount is not an Excluded Asset, or is otherwise properly due and owing to HoldCo or any of its affiliates in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, Ashland promptly shall remit, or cause to be remitted, such amount to HoldCo.
 
SECTION 4.03.
Employee Matters.
 
(a) Effective as of the Closing, subject to Section 4.03(d), HoldCo or one or more of its affiliates shall offer employment (which shall include HoldCo's compliance with its covenants set forth in this Section 4.03) to all Maleic Business Employees who on the Closing Date are actively at work (each, an ""). For purposes of this Agreement, any Maleic Business Employee who is not actively at work on the Closing Date due solely to a leave of absence (including due to vacation, holiday, sick leave, maternity or paternity leave, military leave, jury duty, bereavement leave, injury or short-term disability), other than long-term disability, in compliance with applicable policies of Ashland or its affiliates shall be deemed an Active Maleic Business Employee. Each Maleic Business
Continuation of Employment.
Active Maleic Business Employee
 
Employee who accepts such an offer of employment is referred to herein as a "". Immediately following the Closing, HoldCo shall, or shall cause one or more of its affiliates to, provide each Transferred Maleic Business Employee (i) with overall compensation that is at least equivalent to such Transferred Maleic Business Employee's overall compensation in effect immediately prior to the Closing and (ii) subject to the provisions of this Section 4.03, with appropriate employee benefits as determined by HoldCo or such affiliate.
Transferred Maleic Business Employee
 
(b) (i) Immediately following the Closing, HoldCo or one or more of its affiliates shall allow Transferred Maleic Business Employees to participate in benefit plans that provide for group welfare benefits including, for the avoidance of doubt, vacation and severance benefits (the ""). HoldCo shall grant to the Transferred Maleic Business Employees credit for service prior to the Closing with Ashland and its affiliates for all purposes under the HoldCo Maleic Welfare Plans (other than the HoldCo Retiree Medical Plan (as defined in Section 4.03(f))). HoldCo or its applicable affiliate shall (A) waive all limitations as to preexisting conditions, exclusions and waiting periods and actively-at-work requirements with respect to participation and coverage requirements applicable to the Transferred Maleic Business Employees and their dependents under the HoldCo Maleic Welfare Plans to the extent satisfied or waived under the applicable corresponding Maleic Benefit Plan immediately prior to the Closing and (B) provide each Transferred Maleic Business Employee and his or her eligible dependents with either pro-rated deductibles and co-payments for the balance of the year or credit for any co-payments and deductibles paid prior to the Closing in the calendar year in which the Closing Date occurs (or, if later, in the calendar year in which Transferred Maleic Business Employees and their dependents commence participation in the applicable HoldCo Maleic Welfare Plan) for purposes of satisfying any applicable deductible or out-of-pocket requirements under any HoldCo Maleic Welfare Plans in which the Transferred Maleic Business Employees participate. If credit for deductibles and co-payments is provided, Ashland shall provide or cause to be provided adequate data to implement that credit as HoldCo may reasonably request.
Certain Welfare Benefits Matters.
HoldCo Maleic Welfare Plans
 
(ii) Ashland shall be responsible in accordance with its applicable welfare plans (and the applicable welfare plans of its affiliates) in effect prior to the Closing for all reimbursement claims (such as medical and dental claims) for expenses incurred, and for all non-reimbursement claims (such as life insurance claims) incurred, under such plans prior to the Closing by Transferred Maleic Business Employees and their dependents, except that HoldCo shall be responsible for such claims to the extent such claims are reflected on the Statement or to the extent insured under an insurance policy of which HoldCo or its affiliates becomes the beneficiary and for which Ashland or its affiliates have paid the premium. HoldCo shall be responsible in accordance with the applicable welfare plans of HoldCo and its affiliates for all reimbursement claims (such as medical and dental claims) for expenses incurred, and for all non-reimbursement claims (such as life insurance claims) incurred, from and after the Closing by Transferred Maleic Business Employees and their dependents. For purposes of this Section 4.03(b)(ii), a claim shall be deemed to have been incurred on (A) the date of death or dismemberment in the case of claims under life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment policies or (B) the date on which the charge or expense giving rise to such claim is incurred (without regard to the date of inception of the related illness or injury or the date of submission of a claim related thereto) in the case of all other claims; , , that in the event of a hospital stay that commences prior to the close of business on the Closing Date and ends after the close of business on the Closing Date, the cost thereof shall be apportioned between HoldCo and Ashland with Ashland responsible for that portion of the cost incurred prior to the close of business on the Closing Date and HoldCo responsible for the balance of such cost. Effective as of the Closing, HoldCo shall assume all liabilities, obligations and commitments of Ashland and its affiliates to Transferred Maleic Business Employees and their eligible dependents in respect of health insurance under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended (""), the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and applicable state Law; , , that Ashland and its affiliates shall remain obligated to
provided
however
COBRA
provided
however
 
provide any applicable COBRA notices in respect of events occurring on or prior to the Closing Date.
 
(c) For purposes of determining the number of vacation days to which each Transferred Maleic Business Employee shall be entitled following the Closing, HoldCo shall assume and honor all vacation days accrued or earned but not yet taken by such Transferred Maleic Business Employee as of the Closing. To the extent that a Transferred Maleic Business Employee is entitled under any applicable Law or any policy of Ashland or its affiliates to be paid for any vacation days accrued or earned but not yet taken by such Transferred Maleic Business Employee as of the Closing, HoldCo shall discharge the liability for such vacation days.
Accrued Vacation.
 
(d) HoldCo shall comply with all applicable Laws relating to negotiations with unions in respect of the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement and shall bear all expenses of any compensation resulting from such negotiations. HoldCo shall indemnify Ashland from, and hold it harmless against, any liability arising out of, attributable to or resulting from HoldCo's nonassumption of any collective bargaining agreement that covers one or more Transferred Maleic Business Employees; , , that such indemnification shall not include benefits and obligations accrued and payable under Ashland's pension plans and employment practices prior to the Closing.
Collectively Bargained Employees.
provided
however
 
(e) Immediately following the Closing, HoldCo or one or more of its affiliates shall have in effect a retirement benefit plan or plans (as applicable, the "") that shall provide benefits to the Transferred Maleic Business Employees who immediately prior to the Closing are salaried or non-union hourly employees. HoldCo shall grant such Transferred Maleic Business Employees credit for service prior to the Closing with Ashland and its affiliates for purposes of determining eligibility to participate and vesting under the HoldCo Retirement Plan to the same extent that such service is recognized for purposes of eligibility to participate and vesting under the Ashland Inc. and Affiliates Pension Plan (the "") as of the Closing Date.
Pension Benefit.
HoldCo Retirement Plan
Ashland Pension Plan
 
(f) Immediately following the Closing, HoldCo or one or more of its
Retiree Medical Benefit.
 
affiliates shall have in effect a retiree medical plan or plans (as applicable, the "") that shall provide benefits to Transferred Maleic Business Employees who immediately prior to the Closing are salaried or non-union hourly employees that are the same as those offered by MAP to its employees, subject to MAP's right to amend or modify its retiree medical plan in the ordinary course of business in accordance with the reservation of rights provisions of such plan. HoldCo shall grant such Transferred Maleic Business Employees credit for service prior to the Closing with Ashland and its affiliates for purposes of determining eligibility to receive retiree medical subsidies and for purposes of determining level of benefits and benefit accruals under the HoldCo Retiree Medical Plan to the same extent that such service is recognized for purposes of eligibility to participate and vesting under the Ashland Pension Plan as of the Closing Date.
HoldCo Retiree Medical Plan
 
(g) HoldCo agrees to provide any required notice under the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, as amended (the ""), and any similar state Law that may be applicable to HoldCo, and to otherwise comply with any such applicable Law with respect to any "plant closing" or "mass layoff" (in each case as defined in the WARN Act) or group termination or similar event affecting Maleic Business Employees (including as a result of the consummation of the Transactions) and occurring on or after the Closing Date. HoldCo shall notify Ashland after the Closing of any layoffs of any Transferred Maleic Business Employees in the 90 day period after the Closing.
WARN Act.
WARN Act
 
(h) Following the date of this Agreement, Ashland and HoldCo shall reasonably cooperate in all matters reasonably necessary to effect the transactions contemplated by this Section 4.03, including exchanging information and data relating to workers' compensation, employee benefits and employee benefit plan coverages (except to the extent prohibited by applicable Law), and in obtaining any governmental approvals required hereunder.
Administration.
 
(i) HoldCo and Ashland hereby agree to follow the alternate procedure for employment tax withholding as provided in Section 5 of Rev. Proc. 96-60, 1996-53 I.R.B. 24 (""). Ashland shall provide HoldCo with all necessary and accurate payroll records and such other
Employment Tax Reporting Responsibility.
Rev. Proc. 96-60
 
information relating to the Transferred Maleic Business Employees as HoldCo may reasonably request with respect to Transferred Maleic Business Employees in order to comply with the provisions of Rev. Proc. 96-60 with respect to the calendar year that includes the Closing Date. HoldCo shall perform all employment tax reporting responsibilities for such employees from the Closing Date forward and shall furnish a Form W-2 for such calendar year to each Transferred Maleic Business Employee that will include all remuneration earned by such Transferred Maleic Business Employee from Ashland or HoldCo during such calendar year.
 
(j) It is HoldCo's intent that overall compensation and benefits provided by HoldCo to the Transferred Maleic Business Employees will have comparable value to those provided to them by Ashland immediately prior to the Closing. It is HoldCo's intent to provide competitive compensation and benefits to all employees (including collectively bargained employees) at the Plant.
Intent.
 
SECTION 4.04. After the Closing, upon reasonable written notice, Ashland and HoldCo shall furnish or cause to be furnished to each other and their employees and Representatives, during normal business hours, reasonable access to the personnel, properties, books, Contracts, commitments, records and other information relating to the Maleic Business (and, to the extent reasonably requested, copies of the portions relating to the Maleic Business of any such books, Contracts, commitments, records and other information, in each case to the extent they are available in written form and they relate to the period prior to the Closing Date) and assistance relating to the Maleic Business (to the extent within the control of such party), in each case for any reasonable business purpose, including in respect of litigation, insurance matters, financial reporting and accounting matters.
Post-Closing Information.
 
SECTION 4.05. HoldCo recognizes that certain Records may contain incidental information relating to subsidiaries, divisions or businesses of Ashland other than the Maleic Business and that Ashland may retain copies thereof. Ashland recognizes that certain documents and information of a type similar to the Records may be used, held for use or intended to be used primarily in, or arise primarily out of, the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business, and shall provide copies of the relevant portions thereof to HoldCo at the Closing.
Records.
 
SECTION 4.06. (a) For a period of five years from the Closing Date, Ashland shall not, and shall cause each of its subsidiaries (other than Ashland-Suedchemie Kernfest GmbH and Ashland Avebene S.A., in each case for so long as neither Ashland nor any of its subsidiaries own, directly or indirectly and individually or collectively, more than 50% of the equity interests of such entities) not to, directly or indirectly: (i) engage in the business of manufacturing or marketing maleic anhydride ("") within North America; , , that this clause (i) shall not apply to the marketing of briquette maleic anhydride acquired from Marathon or any of its subsidiaries; (ii) solicit or recruit any Transferred Maleic Business Employee; , , that this clause (ii) shall not apply to (A) a general advertisement or solicitation program that is not specifically targeted at such persons or (B) any employee whose employment by HoldCo has been terminated prior to such solicitation or recruitment; or (iii) solicit any customer of the Maleic Business within North America or any person who, within one year prior to the time of such solicitation, was a customer of the Maleic Business within North America, for the purpose of marketing maleic anhydride in competition with the Maleic Business in North America with the knowledge of such customer relationship; , , that this clause (iii) shall not apply to the marketing of briquette maleic anhydride acquired from Marathon or any of its subsidiaries. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 4.06(a) shall be deemed not breached as a result of: (i) the ownership by Ashland or any of its subsidiaries of (A) less than an aggregate of 10% of any class of stock of a person engaged, directly or indirectly, in Competitive Activities or (B) less than 10% in value of any instrument of indebtedness of a person engaged, directly or indirectly, in Competitive Activities; or (ii) the acquisition by Ashland or any of its subsidiaries of any person that, prior to the acquisition thereof, is not an affiliate of Ashland and that engages, directly or indirectly, in Competitive Activities within North America (A) if such Competitive Activities within North America account for less than 20% of such person's consolidated annual revenues for its most recently completed fiscal year or (B) if Ashland disposes of or agrees to dispose of or discontinues such person's business engaged in Competitive Activities within North America within one year after the closing of such acquisition.
Agreement Not To Compete.
Competitive Activities
provided
however
provided
however
provided
however
 
(b) Ashland hereby agrees that the geographic and business scope and the duration of the covenants and restrictions in this Section 4.06 are fair and reasonable. However, if any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable by reason of the geographic or business scope or duration thereof, the court or other tribunal is hereby directed to construe and enforce this Section 4.06 as if the geographic or business scope or the duration of such provision has been more narrowly drawn as so not to be invalid or unenforceable, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect or render invalid or unenforceable any other provision of this Agreement.
 
(c) Ashland acknowledges that HoldCo will have no adequate remedy at law if Ashland violates or breaches any term of this Section 4.06. In such event, HoldCo shall have the right (upon compliance with any necessary prerequisites imposed by law upon the availability of such remedies), in addition to any other rights or remedies that it may have to obtain, in any court of competent jurisdiction, injunctive relief to restrain any breach or threatened breach of, or otherwise to specifically enforce the terms of, this Section 4.06, and to exercise such remedies cumulatively or in conjunction with all other rights and remedies provided by contract (hereunder or otherwise, including the right to indemnity under Article XIII of the Master Agreement), at law or in equity.
 
(d) All the covenants in this Section 4.06 are intended by each party hereto to, and shall, be construed as an agreement independent of any other provision in this Agreement, and the existence of any claim or cause of action of Ashland against HoldCo, whether predicated on this Agreement or otherwise (other than a claim or cause of action of Ashland against HoldCo for a material breach of the Maleic Supply Agreement that is continuing after written notice by Ashland thereof and the expiration of a reasonable cure period in accordance with the terms of the Maleic Supply Agreement), shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by HoldCo of any covenant in this Section 4.06.
 
SECTION 4.07. HoldCo hereby waives compliance by Ashland with the provisions of any so-called "bulk transfer law" of any jurisdiction in connection with the Maleic Assignment and Assumption.
Bulk Transfer Laws.
 
SECTION 4.08. At any time after 20 days after the Closing Date, HoldCo shall not use stationery, purchase order forms, labels, material safety data sheets or other similar paper goods or supplies that state or otherwise indicate thereon that the Maleic Business is a division or unit of Ashland.
Supplies.
 
SECTION 4.09. From and after the Closing, Ashland and HoldCo shall cooperate with each other, and shall cause their Representatives to cooperate with each other, to ensure that (i) HoldCo receives copies of all mail (including mail sent by private delivery and electronic mail correspondence) relating to the Maleic Business or the Transferred Assets and (ii) Ashland receives all mail addressed to Ashland delivered to the Premises (which HoldCo is hereby authorized to receive and open) that contains information relating to, or of importance to, Ashland (including for financial reporting, accounting or tax purposes) or to subsidiaries, divisions or businesses of Ashland other than the Maleic Business.
Mail.
 
SECTION 4.10. From time to time after the Closing, as and when requested by any party hereto, each party shall execute and deliver, or cause to be executed and delivered, all such documents and instruments and shall take, or cause to be taken, all such further or other actions, as such other party may reasonably deem necessary or desirable to consummate the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including, (i) in the case of Ashland, executing and delivering to HoldCo such assignments, deeds, Consents and other instruments as HoldCo may reasonably request as necessary or desirable for such purpose and (ii) in the case of HoldCo, executing and delivering to Ashland such assumptions and other instruments as Ashland may reasonably request as necessary or desirable for such purpose. From and after the Closing Date, Ashland will promptly refer all bona fide written inquiries with respect to ownership of the Transferred Assets after the Closing or the operation or conduct of the Maleic Business after the Closing to HoldCo or its designee.
Further Assurances.
 
SECTION 4.11. Prior to the Closing Date, Ashland shall review the terms of each material Contract that relates in part to the Maleic Business and in part to any other business of Ashland or any of its subsidiaries (collectively, "") in order to determine whether such Contract
Review of Contracts.
Ashland Joint Contracts
 
should be terminated and replaced on or prior to the Closing Date by a separate Contract relating to the Maleic Business on the one hand (any such separate Contract being an Assigned Contract, so long as (i) entering into such Contract would not otherwise be in violation of this Agreement and (ii) such Contract does not contain terms that, in the aggregate, are materially less advantageous to the Maleic Business than the terms under the Contract being terminated and replaced), and a separate Contract relating to such other business of Ashland or any of its subsidiaries on the other hand (any such separate Contract not being an Assigned Contract). If requested by HoldCo or Marathon within 90 days after Ashland notifies HoldCo and Marathon in writing of the specific terms of the Ashland Joint Contracts, Ashland shall continue in effect any Ashland Joint Contract not terminated and replaced in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence, if not prohibited by the terms of such Ashland Joint Contract, until the stated expiration thereof (without regard to any available renewal options); , , that Ashland shall not be prohibited from terminating any such Ashland Joint Contract (other than the Car Service Contract dated as of April 16, 1990, between Ashland and General American Transportation Corporation, the Car Leasing Agreement dated as of January 3, 1984, between Ashland and General Electric Railcar Leasing Services Corporation, the Car Service Agreement dated as of April 1, 1989, between Ashland and Union Tank Car Company and the Master Supplier Agreement dated as of January 1, 1990, between Ashland and Union Tank Car Company) that relates to a substantial portion of the business of Ashland and its subsidiaries. Each of Ashland and HoldCo shall perform its respective obligations under all such Ashland Joint Contracts so as not to create a default thereunder, and Ashland shall provide HoldCo with rights thereunder consistent with historical practice between the parties with respect thereto, subject to obtaining any necessary Consents from third parties (which Ashland and HoldCo mutually agree to use their reasonable best efforts to obtain) and subject to HoldCo bearing the proportionate expense attributable to such rights consistent with historical practice between the parties with respect thereto; , , that neither Ashland nor HoldCo shall be obligated to extend credit to the other party.
provided
however
provided
however
 
 
 
SECTION 5.01. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, this Agreement shall automatically terminate, without further action by any party, and the Maleic Assignment and Assumption abandoned at any time prior to the Closing, upon termination of the Master Agreement in accordance with the terms thereof.
Termination.
 
SECTION 5.02. In the event of termination of this Agreement in accordance with Section 5.01, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and have no effect, without any liability or obligation on the part of any party hereto, other than (i) Section 5.01 and this Section 5.02 and (ii) Article VI (General Provisions), which provisions shall survive such termination, and except to the extent that such termination results from the material breach by a party of its representations, warranties or covenants set forth in the Transaction Agreements.
Effect of Termination.
 
 
 
SECTION 6.01. (a) When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article, Section or Exhibit, such reference shall be to an Article of, a Section of, or an Exhibit to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include", "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation". No item contained in any section of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter shall be deemed adequate to disclose an exception to a representation or warranty made in this Agreement, unless (i) such item is included (or expressly incorporated by reference) in a section of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter that is numbered to correspond to the section number assigned to such representation or warranty in this Agreement or (ii) it is readily apparent from a reading of such item
Interpretation; Maleic Business Disclosure Letter; Certain Definitions.
 
that it discloses an exception to such representation or warranty.
 
(b) For all purposes hereof:
 
"" means any liability, obligation or commitment arising under any Environmental Law; , , that Environmental Liability specifically does not include any liability, obligation or commitment relating to any Claim brought by any person other than a Governmental Entity seeking damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, penalties, compensation or injunctive relief resulting from the existence or release of, or exposure to, Hazardous Materials, except where such Claim is brought as a citizen's suit in which no monetary damages are sought for the account of such person. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, any liability, obligation or commitment under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or any comparable state Environmental Law that arises out of, is based on or is in connection with the disposal or Release by Ashland of Hazardous Materials at a location other than the Premises shall be treated as a Retained Liability and shall not be or become an Assumed Liability.
Environmental Liability
provided
however
 
"" means patents (including all reissues, divisions, continuations and extensions thereof), patent applications, trademarks, trademark registrations, trademark applications, servicemarks, trade names, business names, brand names, copyrights, copyright registrations and proprietary designs and design registrations.
Intellectual Property
 
"" means the business of (i) manufacturing maleic anhydride at the Plant, (ii) acquiring maleic anhydride from parties not affiliated with Ashland and (iii) marketing, distributing and selling the foregoing, in each case as conducted by Ashland, directly or indirectly through certain of its subsidiaries, as of the date of this Agreement.
Maleic Business
 
"" means a material adverse effect (i) on the business, properties, assets, condition (financial or otherwise), operations or results of operation of the Maleic Business, taken as a whole, (ii) on the ability of Ashland to perform its obligations under this Agreement and the other agreements
Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect
 
and instruments to be executed and delivered in connection with this Agreement or (iii) on the ability of Ashland to consummate the Maleic Assignment and Assumption. For purposes of this Agreement, "Maleic Business Material Adverse Effect" shall exclude any events, changes, effects and developments to the extent relating to (A) the economy of the United States or foreign economies in general, (B) industries in which the Maleic Business operates and not specifically relating to the Maleic Business, (C) any announcement by Ashland of the Transactions or of its intention to transfer the Maleic Business or (D) the execution of the Transaction Agreements and the Ancillary Agreements and the consummation of the Transactions.
 
"" means (i) Liens for current Taxes, assessments, governmental charges or levies not yet due, (ii) workers' or unemployment compensation Liens arising in the ordinary course of business, (iii) mechanic's, materialman's, supplier's, vendor's, garnishment or similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business for amounts not yet due, (iv) Liens or other charges or encumbrances as may have arisen in the ordinary course of business, none of which individually or in the aggregate are material to the ownership, use or operation of the Transferred Assets, (v) any state of facts which an accurate survey would show which does not materially detract from the value of or materially interfere with the use and operation of the Transferred Assets, (vi) any Liens, easements, rights-of-way, restrictions, rights, leases and other encumbrances affecting title thereto, whether or not of record, which do not materially detract from the value of or materially interfere with the use and operation of the Transferred Assets, (vii) legal highways, zoning and building Laws, ordinances or regulations, (viii) any Liens for real estate Taxes which are not yet due and payable, (ix) Liens set forth in Section 3.02 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter and (x) Liens set forth in Section 3.03 of the Maleic Business Disclosure Letter.
Permitted Liens
 
SECTION 6.02. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other party.
Counterparts.
 
SECTION 6.03. If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any rule or Law, or public
Severability.
 
policy, all other conditions and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic or legal substance of the Transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party hereto. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement (in accordance with the terms of Section 6.06) so as to effect the original intent of the parties hereto as closely as possible to the end that the Transactions contemplated hereby are fulfilled to the greatest extent possible.
 
SECTION 6.04. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, regardless of the laws that might otherwise govern under applicable principles of conflicts of laws thereof.
Governing Law.
 
SECTION 6.05. This Agreement is not intended to confer any rights or remedies upon any person other than the parties hereto and the Marathon Parties, whom the parties hereto expressly agree are third-party beneficiaries entitled to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. Ashland acknowledges that the rights, titles and interests provided to HoldCo pursuant to this Agreement are a material part of the consideration for the agreements of the Marathon Parties pursuant to the Master Agreement. It is further understood that, subject to Section 14.09 of the Master Agreement, the respective successors and assigns of Ashland and HoldCo shall have all of the rights, interests and obligations of Ashland and HoldCo, respectively, hereunder.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries.
 
SECTION 6.06. This Agreement may not be amended by the parties except pursuant to an instrument in writing signed on behalf of Ashland and HoldCo with the written consent of Marathon.
Amendment.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement, all as of the date first written above.
 
 

EXHIBIT 2.5
EXECUTION COPY
 
AMENDMENT NO. 2 dated as of March 18, 2004 (this ""), to the Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement dated as of December 31, 1998 (the "") of Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC (the ""), by and between Ashland Inc., a Kentucky corporation ("") and Marathon Oil Company, an Ohio corporation (""), a wholly owned subsidiary of Marathon Oil Corporation, a Delaware Corporation ("").
Amendment
MAP LLC Agreement
Company
Ashland
Marathon
Marathon Corporation
 
WHEREAS Ashland and Marathon are the only Members of the Company and are parties to the MAP LLC Agreement, which sets forth the rights and responsibilities of each of them with respect to the governance, financing and operation of the Company (capitalized terms used in this Amendment and not defined herein shall have the meanings given such terms in the MAP LLC Agreement);
 
WHEREAS Marathon Corporation, Marathon, Ashland, New EXM Inc., a Kentucky Corporation (""), certain of their respective affiliates and the Company are parties to a Master Agreement (as defined herein), pursuant to which the parties have agreed to effect the Transactions described therein;
New Ashland Inc.
 
WHEREAS Marathon Corporation, Marathon, Ashland, New Ashland Inc. and certain of their respective affiliates are parties to a Tax Matters Agreement (as defined herein), which sets forth the rights and obligations of the parties with respect to Taxes in connection with the Transactions (as defined herein);
 
WHEREAS in connection with the MAP Partial Redemption (as defined herein), Marathon and Ashland wish to adjust the Percentage Interests of the Members;
 
WHEREAS the Members wish to amend the MAP LLC Agreement to facilitate the Transactions.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
SECTION 1.
Definitions
 
Effective as of the date of this Amendment, Section 1.01 of the MAP LLC Agreement is amended by adding the following defined terms at the appropriate alphabetical location:
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Agreement.
Closing Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Agreement.
Closing
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.05(b).
Cold Assets
 
"" means the policies and procedures set forth on Schedule 5.05 attached hereto and pursuant to which the Company shall act as the collection agent on behalf of New Ashland Inc. with respect to the Distributed Receivables.
Collection Policies and Procedures
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Agreement.
Distributed Receivables
 
"" means each of (i) the three-month periods ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each Fiscal Year, and (ii) if such Distribution Period would otherwise include the Closing Date, each of (a) the period beginning on the day after the last day of the Fiscal Quarter immediately preceding the Closing Date and ending at the time of the Closing; and (b) the period beginning immediately after the Closing and ending on the next to occur of March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31.
Distribution Period
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.05(b).
Excess Section 751 Property
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement.
Final Determination
 
"" means the Form of Receivables Assignment attached as Attachment A hereto.
Form of Receivables Assignment
 
"" shall mean (a) petty cash, (b) refining, retail outlets and transportation ("RMT") working funds, (c) depository account balances for the RMT business (automated clearinghouse transmissions submitted on the most recent banking day in the applicable jurisdiction immediately preceding the Closing Date or later will be for the account of the Company and its subsidiaries), (d) funds in transit relating to retail outlet deposits, and (e) uncollected funds in lockboxes and lockbox bank accounts for the RMT business (automated clearinghouse transmissions submitted on the most recent banking day in the applicable jurisdiction immediately preceding the Closing Date or later will be for the account of the Company and its subsidiaries).
Incidental Cash
 
"" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
 
"" means the Master Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2004 among Marathon Corporation, a Delaware Corporation (""), Marathon, Ashland, New EXM Inc., a Kentucky Corporation (""), certain of their respective affiliates and the Company pursuant to which the parties have agreed to effect the Transactions.
Master Agreement
Marathon Corporation
New Ashland Inc.
 
"" means any loan of cash or other property by the Company to a Member.
Member Loans
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Agreement.
MAP Partial Redemption
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Agreement.
MAP Partial Redemption Amount
 
"" means the date on which the MAP Partial Redemption is effected pursuant to Section 1.01 of the Master Agreement.
MAP Partial Redemption Date
 
"" means any Member Loan to the extent that such Member Loan has not been repaid by the borrower to the Company.
Outstanding Member Loan
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement.
Pass-Through Items
 
"" means the facility for sales of accounts receivable by the Company to a party unrelated to any Member pursuant to the Receivables Purchase and Sale Agreement and exhibits thereto, attached as Attachment B to this Agreement or such additional or other terms as agreed by the parties, it being understood that Argentina (or, after the Closing, New Argentina) shall agree to such additional or other terms proposed by Mexico or the Company unless in its good faith judgment such terms adversely affect the treatment of such sales as sales for tax purposes.
Receivables Sales Facility
 
"" means any refund of Taxes, including any reduction of Taxes paid or payable by means of credits, offsets or otherwise.
Refund
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.19.
Section 704(b) Book-Up
 
"" means Section 751 property, as such term is defined in U.S. Treasury Regulation  1.751-1(e).
Section 751 Property
 
"" or "" means all forms of taxation imposed by any governmental authority, including net income, gross income, alternative minimum, sales, use, ad valorem, gross receipts, value added, franchise, license, transfer, withholding, payroll, employment, excise, severance, stamp, property, custom duty, taxes or governmental charges, together with any related interest, penalties or other additional amounts imposed by a Tax Authority, and including all liability for or in respect of any of the foregoing as a result of being a member of a consolidated or similar group or a partner in an entity treated as a partnership or other pass-through entity for Tax purposes or as a result of any tax sharing or similar contractual agreement.
Tax
Taxes
 
"" means any governmental authority imposing Taxes and the agency, if any, charged with the collection of such Taxes for such authority.
Tax Authority
 
"" means the Tax Matters Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2004, among Ashland, New Ashland Inc., Marathon Corporation, Marathon, certain of
Tax Matters Agreement
 
their respective affiliates and the Company, that sets forth the rights and obligations of such parties with respect to Taxes in connection with the Transactions.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Master Agreement.
Transactions
 
"" means any Short Term Investments held by the Company immediately following the MAP Partial Redemption.
Undistributed Cash
 
SECTION 2.
Definition of Distributable Cash
 
Effective as of the date of this Amendment, Section 1.01 of the MAP LLC Agreement is amended by amending and replacing the defined term "Distributable Cash" as follows:
 
"" means, for each Distribution Period including a Distribution Period that includes the Closing Date, without duplication:
Distributable Cash
 
(a) the Short-Term Investments of the Company and its subsidiaries on the last day of such Distribution Period, minus
 
(b) the Ordinary Course Debt of the Company and its subsidiaries on the last day of such Distribution Period, minus
 
(c) the Tax Distribution Amount, if any, to be distributed under Section 5.01(a) in respect of such Distribution Period, minus
 
(d) funds held on the last day of such Distribution Period for financing Special Projects (including the Detroit Clean Fuels/Expansion Project) or Permitted Capital Projects/Acquisitions, minus
 
(e) if the notional repayment of principal for Special Project Indebtedness or Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness during such Distribution Period calculated using a notional repayment schedule established and approved by the Board of Managers in accordance with the Company Leverage Policy was more than the amount of actual principal repayments for such Special Project Indebtedness or Permitted Capital Project Acquisition
 
Indebtedness during such Distribution Period, the amount of such excess, plus
 
(f) if the amount of the actual principal repayments for Special Project Indebtedness or Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness during such Distribution Period was more than the notional repayment of principal for such Special Project Indebtedness or Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness during such Distribution Period (calculated in the manner described in clause (e) above), the amount of such excess, plus or minus
 
(g) any adjustments or reserves (including any adjustments for minimum cash balance requirements, including cash reserves for accrued or withheld Taxes not yet due) in the amounts and for the time periods established and approved by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b), minus
 
(h) the proceeds of any asset sales, dispositions or sale leaseback arrangements, effected pursuant to Section 9.15(b) of the Master Agreement, to the extent such asset sales, dispositions or sale leaseback arrangements are not effected in the ordinary course of the Company's business and are not reflected in the Company's Business/Tactical Plan & Budget 2004-2006, dated December 16, 2003, plus
 
(i) with respect to determining the MAP Partial Redemption Amount (as defined in the Master Agreement), all out of pocket costs and expenses to the extent paid by the Company prior to the Closing Date in connection with any asset sales, dispositions, or sale leaseback arrangements described in clause (h) above, plus
 
(j) with respect to determining the MAP Partial Redemption Amount (as defined in the Master Agreement), all out of pocket costs and expenses paid by the Company to arrange, maintain or terminate any Working Capital Facilities (as defined in the Company Leverage Policy, set forth in Schedule 8.14) (other than interest), Receivables Sales Facilities or other arrangements to provide financing to the Company (to the extent such costs and expenses are paid prior to the Closing Date).
 
SECTION 3.
Percentage Interest after MAP Partial Redemption
 
Effective as of the date of this Amendment, Section 3.01 of the MAP LLC Agreement is amended and restated to be Section 3.01(a), and a new Section 3.01(b) is added immediately thereafter as follows:
 
(b) Immediately following the MAP Partial Redemption, the respective Percentage Interests of Ashland and Marathon will be determined as follows: Ashland's Percentage Interest will equal the quotient, expressed as a percentage, of (x) $2.915 billion plus the MAP Adjustment Amount (as defined in the Master Agreement) minus the MAP Partial Redemption Amount (as defined in the Master Agreement) divided by (y) $7.671 billion plus 100% of the Distributable Cash of the Company as of the Closing Date minus the MAP Partial Redemption Amount. Marathon's Percentage Interest will equal 100% minus Ashland's Percentage Interest. The Percentage Interests of the Members will be appropriately adjusted if the MAP Partial Redemption Amount is increased in accordance with Sections 1.01 or 1.06 of the Master Agreement.
 
SECTION 4.
Distributions
 
Effective as of the date of this Amendment, Section 5.01 of the MAP LLC Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
SECTION 5.01. (a) No distribution with respect to a Tax Distribution Amount shall be made under this Section 5.01 with respect to a Distribution Period, and the Tax Distribution Amount with respect to such Distribution Period shall be $0.00, unless the Board of Managers, pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b), determines that there shall be such a distribution. If the Board of Managers, pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b), determines that there shall be a distribution under this Section 5.01 with respect to any Distribution Period during a Taxable Year, then, within 45 days after the end such Distribution Period, the Company shall distribute to the Members (the date of such distribution being a "") an amount in cash (the "") determined as follows:
Distributions.
Distribution Date
Tax Distribution Amount
 
(i) The maximum Tax Liability of each Member with respect to its allocable portion (as provided in Section 6.03) of the Company's estimated taxable income for such Distribution Period shall be determined, based upon the highest aggregate marginal statutory Federal, state and local income tax rate (determined taking into account the deductibility, to the extent allowed, of income-based taxes paid to governmental entities) to which any Member may be subject for the related Fiscal Year (and excluding any deferred taxes) (the "").
Aggregate Tax Rate
 
(ii) If the Tax Liability determined in clause (i) is positive with respect to either Member, there shall be a cash distribution to each of the Members, in accordance with their Percentage Interests, of an aggregate amount such that neither Member shall have received distributions under this clause and subsection (b) below for such portion of such Fiscal Year in an amount less than its Tax Liability for such portion of such Fiscal Year.
 
(b) No distribution of Distributable Cash shall be made under this Section 5.01(b) with respect to a Distribution Period unless the Board of Managers, pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b), determines that there shall be such a distribution. If the Board of Managers, pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b), determines that there shall be a distribution under this Section 5.01(b) with respect to any Distribution Period, the Company shall distribute to the Members such amount of Distributable Cash as is determined to be distributed by such vote of the Board of Managers. Subject to Section 5.02(b), each such distribution shall be allocated between the Members based upon their respective Percentage Interests.
pro rata
 
(c) The Company shall prepare and distribute to each Member within 45 days after the end of each Distribution Period a statement (a "") setting forth the calculations (in reasonable detail) of (i) the Tax Distribution Amount for each Member with respect to such Distribution Period (as if the Board of Managers had determined that there shall be a distribution under Section 5.01(a) for such Distribution Period, regardless of whether such a determination was actually made), (ii) the amount of Distributable Cash with respect to such Distribution Period (as if the Board of
Distributions Calculation Statement
 
Managers had determined that there shall be a distribution under Section 5.01(b) for such Distribution Period, regardless of whether such a distribution was actually made) and (iii) the allocation between the members of distributions, if any, under Sections 5.01(a) and (b) for such Distribution Period. Such Distributions Calculations Statements shall be distributed to such Members regardless of the amount, if any, that is actually distributed to such Members during such Distribution Period.
 
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, any agreement reached between the Members to distribute any amount of cash different from the amounts which would be calculated in accordance with the methodology set forth in Section 5.01(a) and Section 5.01(b) above shall not alter or waive in any manner the obligations of the Company to prepare and deliver the Distributions Calculation Statement as set forth in Section 5.01(c) above, and after any such agreement has been reached the Company shall continue to prepare and deliver such Distributions Calculation Statement with respect to each Distribution Period as if no such agreement had been reached.
 
SECTION 5.
Partial Redemption of Ashland Membership Interest
 
Effective as of the date of this Amendment, Article V of the MAP LLC Agreement is amended by adding the following new Section 5.05:
 
SECTION 5.05. (a) On the MAP Partial Redemption Date, the Company shall effect the MAP Partial Redemption as described in Section 1.01 of the Master Agreement by distributing to Ashland the MAP Partial Redemption Amount in redemption of a portion of its Membership Interest in the Company and by adjusting the Percentage Interests of the Members as set forth in Section 3.01 of this Agreement. It is understood that no Tax Distribution shall be made with respect to the MAP Partial Redemption. The MAP Partial Redemption Amount shall be distributed in cash and by the distribution by the Company of the Distributed Receivables, each in the amount determined in accordance with Section 1.01 of the Master Agreement. In connection with the MAP Partial Redemption, on the Closing Date the Company shall, in accordance with the Form of Receivables Assignment attached as Attachment A hereto, (i) assign, transfer, or otherwise convey to
MAP Partial Redemption.
 
Ashland, and Ashland shall accept from the Company, the Distributed Receivables, together with all Related Security and all Collections thereof (as such terms are defined in Schedule 5.05 attached hereto) and (ii) shall distribute to Ashland cash (by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account, which will be designated by Ashland at least two Business Days before the Closing Date). The Company shall act as collection agent with respect to the Distributed Receivables on behalf of New Ashland Inc. and pay the full amount of all Collections thereof to New Ashland Inc. in accordance with the Collection Policies and Procedures set forth in Schedule 5.05. A subsequent distribution may be made with respect to any adjustments pursuant to Sections 1.06 or 9.13 of the Master Agreement.
 
(b) If, in accordance with the pre-filing agreement (as referenced in Section 7.06 of the Tax Matters Agreement) or as a result of any other Final Determination with respect to the MAP Partial Redemption, Ashland is determined to have received Section 751 Property in excess of the amount of Section 751 Property which, had Ashland actually received such amount, would have resulted in no gain recognition to Ashland under Section 751(b) of the Code (such excess amount of Section 751 Property, the ""), the Members agree that Ashland shall be deemed to have exchanged its share of Undistributed Cash for such Excess Section 751 Property for the purpose of determining the amount of gain, if any, recognized by Ashland under Section 751(b) of the Code; , , that if the total amount of Undistributed Cash is less than the fair market value of the Excess Section 751 Property, then Ashland shall be deemed to have exchanged, for an amount of Section 751 Property, its share of property other than Section 751 Property, as designated by Ashland and Marathon prior to the Closing Date, with a fair market value equal to its tax basis (the ""); , , that the fair market value of such Cold Assets shall equal the difference between the fair market value of the Excess Section 751 Property and the total amount of Undistributed Cash. The Members agree that any deemed exchange by Ashland of Undistributed Cash and/or Cold Assets for Excess Section 751 Property pursuant to this Section 5.05(b) is intended to be consistent with the principles of U.S. Treasury Regulation  1.751-1(g), Example 3(c) and Example 5(d)(1).
Excess Section 751 Property
provided
however
Cold Assets
provided further
however
 
SECTION 6.
Member Loans
 
Effective as of the date of this Amendment, Article V of the MAP LLC Agreement is amended by adding the following new Section 5.06:
 
SECTION 5.06. No Member Loans shall be permitted prior to January 1, 2005, unless approved by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b). At any time during the period beginning on January 1, 2005 and ending on the date 45 days prior to the Closing Date, Member Loans to Ashland shall be permitted on terms and conditions consistent with the Company's historical practice with respect to Member Loans, and Member Loans to Marathon shall be permitted pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b). All Member Loans shall be repaid to the Company by Ashland or Marathon, as applicable, no later than 30 days prior to the Closing Date.
Member Loans.
 
SECTION 7.
Tax Allocations
 
(a) Effective as of the date of this Amendment, Section 6.02(a) of the MAP LLC Agreement is amended and restated as follows:
 
(a) Except as provided in Section 6.02(b), 6.02(c), 6.02(d), 6.02(e) and 6.17, Profit or Loss for any Fiscal Year shall be allocated between the Members in proportion to their respective Percentage Interests.
 
(b) Effective as of the date of this Amendment, Article VI of the MAP LLC Agreement is amended by adding the following new Sections 6.17, 6.18 and 6.19:
 
SECTION 6.17 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Article VI of this Agreement or any other provision of this Agreement, Marathon shall be allocated any Profit and Loss associated with Pass-Through Items that would be allocable to Ashland in the absence of this Section 6.17 and that are attributable to a payment that is (1) described in Section 12.01(d)(vii) of the Master Agreement, which results in a special non-pro rata distribution to Ashland, or (2) made with respect to the St. Paul Park QQQ Project or the Plains Settlement (as both are described in Section 9.09 of the Master Agreement).
Special Allocations.
 
SECTION 6.18. Prior to the Closing Date, the Company and the Members will take all steps necessary to ensure that nonrecourse debt (within the meaning of U.S. Treasury Regulation  1.752-1(a)) is allocated to the Members for purposes of Section 752 of the Code in a manner that results in each Member's share of aggregate Company debt after the MAP Partial Redemption being equal to such Member's share of aggregate Company debt immediately prior to such Redemption. For these purposes, with respect to nonrecourse debt (within the meaning of U.S. Treasury Regulation  1.752-1(a)) if any, the Members agree to utilize, if necessary to satisfy the preceding sentence, U.S. Treasury Regulation  1.752-3(a)(3) and 1.752-3(b).
Pre-Closing Allocation of Company Debt.
 
SECTION 6.19 The Company shall determine the value of each item (or class of items, as appropriate) of its assets as of the MAP Partial Redemption Date, based on the report prepared by Deloitte & Touche LLP and delivered to Ashland and Marathon in accordance with the definition of AR Fraction in Section 1.01 of the Master Agreement and shall, immediately prior to the MAP Partial Redemption, adjust the Capital Accounts of the Members under Treasury Regulation 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)() and (), based upon the amount of Profit and Loss that would be allocated to each Member under Section 6.02 of this Agreement with respect to each such item or class as if the Company sold all of its assets for such values immediately before the MAP Partial Redemption (the ""). Any resulting differences between the book and tax basis of property resulting from such Section 704(b) Book-Up shall be accounted for under Section 6.03 using a method selected by the Members.
Section 704(b) Book-Up.
f
g
Section 704(b) Book-Up
 
SECTION 8.
Items Requiring Vote of Members Under Section 8.07(b)
 
Section 8.08 of the MAP LLC Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following new Sections 8.08(r)-(t):
 
(r) the approval of a distribution under Section 5.01(a);
 
(s) the approval of a distribution under Section 5.01(b);
 
(t) making a Member Loan, except as otherwise provided in Section 5.06.
 
SECTION 9.
Company Leverage Policy
 
The Company Leverage Policy (set forth in Schedule 8.14) is amended and restated in its entirety. Such policy is set forth in a new Schedule 8.14 attached hereto.
 
SECTION 10.
Receivables Sales Facility
 
Article VIII of the MAP LLC Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following new Section 8.20:
 
SECTION 8.20. The Company may enter into the Receivables Sales Facility.
Receivables Sales Facility.
 
SECTION 11.
Transfer of Membership Interest
 
Effective as of the date of this Amendment, Section 10.01 of the MAP LLC Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following new Section 10.01(h):
 
(h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Ashland's contribution, transfer and conveyance of its Membership Interests to HoldCo (as defined in the Master Agreement), HoldCo's acceptance of such contribution, transfer and conveyance and the Transactions as contemplated by and in accordance with the Master Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements (as defined in the Master Agreement) are expressly permitted hereunder and shall not require approval under Section 8.07 or otherwise.
Transfer Pursuant to Master Agreement.
 
This Amendment shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the parties hereto and their respective successors, legal representatives and permitted assigns.
SECTION 12.
Parties in Interest
 
This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
SECTION 13.
Counterparts
 
THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW THEREOF. ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY WITH RESPECT TO ANY CLAIM OR PROCEEDING RELATED TO
SECTION 14.
GOVERNING LAW
 
OR ARISING OUT OF THIS AMENDMENT, OR ANY TRANSACTION OR CONDUCT IN CONNECTION HEREWITH, IS WAIVED.
 
This Amendment is not intended to confer upon any person other than the parties hereto any rights or remedies.
SECTION 15.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries
 
The headings contained in this Amendment are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Amendment. Whenever the words "include", "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation".
SECTION 16.
Interpretation
 
If any term or other provision of this Amendment is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any rule or law, or public policy, all other conditions and provisions of this Amendment shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions and amendments contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Amendment so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible to the end that the transactions and amendments contemplated hereby are fulfilled to the extent possible.
SECTION 17.
Severability
 
The MAP LLC Agreement continues in full force and effect, except as expressly amended herein.
SECTION 18.
Continuation Of MAP LLC Agreement
 
In the event of a termination of the Master Agreement pursuant to Section 11.01 of the Master Agreement, the parties further agree that, as of the date the Master Agreement is terminated: the definition of "Distributable Cash," sections 5.01 and 8.08, and the Company Leverage Policy (set forth in Schedule 8.14) shall be amended and restored to their language existing prior to this Amendment; Sections 5.05, 5.06, 6.17, and 8.20 shall be repealed in their entirety; and allocations of Profit and Loss for the period or periods between the signing of this Amendment and the date the Master Agreement is terminated shall be made without regard to Section 6.17 or, to the extent such allocations have been made under Section 6.17, the effects of such allocations shall be reversed with future allocations of Profit and Loss.
SECTION 19.
Consequences Of Termination Of Master Agreement
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the day and year first written above.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT dated as of December 31, 1998, of MARATHON ASHLAND PETROLEUM LLC (the ""), by and between Marathon Oil Company, an Ohio corporation (""), and Ashland Inc., a Kentucky corporation (""), as Members.
Company
Marathon
Ashland
 
 
WHEREAS, on June 11, 1997, Marathon and Emro Marketing Company ("Emro Marketing") formed the Company (formerly known as "Emro Supply, LLC") by filing a Certificate of Formation of the Company with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and executed the Limited Liability Company Agreement of the Company pursuant to which Marathon received a 60% interest in the Company and Emro Marketing received a 40% interest in the Company;
 
WHEREAS, on July 18, 1997, Emro Marketing assigned its interest in the Company to Marathon and Fuelgas Company, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Marathon ("Fuelgas"), with Marathon receiving an additional 39% interest in the Company and Fuelgas receiving a 1% interest in the Company, which interest will be transferred to Marathon immediately following the Closing (for purposes of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents, all references to Marathon's interest in the Company shall be deemed to include the 1% interest owned by Fuelgas);
 
WHEREAS, on July 18, 1997, Marathon and Fuelgas executed the First Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of the Company and filed an Amended and Restated Certificate of Formation of the Company with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware;
 
WHEREAS, on October 29, 1997, Marathon and Fuelgas filed a Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Formation of the Company with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to change the name of the Company to Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC;
 
WHEREAS, on December 8, 1997, Marathon and Fuelgas executed the Second Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of the Company which became effective on December 10, 1997;
 
WHEREAS the parties hereto desire that the Company (a) be a premier petroleum supply, refining, marketing and transportation business, (b) create a highly efficient, cost-effective and competitive petroleum supply, refining,
 
marketing and transportation system, (c) deliver to the Members the highest possible economic value added, (d) be customer-focused and market-driven in its business strategy, (e) be a respected and responsible member of the communities in which the Company will operate, with a high regard for environmental responsibility and employee safety, and (f) seek to maximize Distributable Cash to the Members consistent with the foregoing, including capital spending levels which over time are expected to be generally equivalent to the level of non-cash charges; and
 
WHEREAS the Members entered into this Agreement on January 1, 1998 to set forth the rights and responsibilities of each of them with respect to the governance, financing and operation of the Company;
 
WHEREAS, the Members have executed Amendment No. 1 to this Agreement as of August 21, 1998, and have executed Amendment No. 2 to this Agreement as of September 1, 1998; and
 
WHEREAS, the Members wish to make certain additional amendments to this Agreement, and to restate this Agreement incorporating such additional amendments as well as the amendments contained in Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
SECTION 1.01. Defined terms used in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed to them by definition in this Agreement or in Appendix A. In addition, when used herein the following terms have the following meanings:
Definitions.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.02.
Accounting Determination
 
"" means, in connection with any acquisition by the Company and its subsidiaries, without duplication (i) the purchase price paid or to be paid for the net assets or capital stock or other equity interests in connection with such acquisition, (ii) any Indebtedness assumed by the Company and its subsidiaries in connection with any such acquisition, (iii) any contingent
Acquisition Expenditures
 
liabilities assumed or incurred by the Company and its subsidiaries in connection with any such acquisition to the extent that such contingent liabilities are required to be reflected on the balance sheet of the Company and its subsidiaries in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Number 5 (or any successor or superseding provision of Applicable GAAP), and (iv) all other costs and expenses incurred or to be incurred by the Company or any of its subsidiaries in connection with any such acquisition to the extent that such costs and expenses would be capitalized if such acquisition were consummated.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.13.
Adjustable Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(c).
Additional Monetary Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01(a).
Additional Required Cash Amount
 
"" means:
Adjusted DD&A
 
(i) for the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 1995 and 1996, $348 million and $346 million, respectively;
 
(ii) for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 1997, the total combined depreciation, depletion and amortization expense of the Marathon Business and the Ashland Business during such twelve-month period, including, without duplication, (a) any gains (deductions from depreciation, depletion and amortization) or losses (additions to depreciation, depletion and amortization) on asset retirements during such period and (b) pro forma depreciation, depletion and amortization expense related to the Financed Properties during such period (calculated in the same manner such pro forma depreciation, depletion and amortization expense was calculated in Schedule A, which considers the placed-in-service dates of the Financed Properties);
 
(iii) for the twelve-month period ended September 30, 1998, the sum of:
 
(a) the total combined depreciation, depletion and amortization expense of the Marathon Business and the Ashland Business during the period commencing on October 1, 1997, and ended on the date immediately preceding the Closing Date,
 
, without duplication, (1) any gains (deductions from depreciation, depletion and amortization) or losses (additions to depreciation, depletion and amortization) on asset retirements during such period and (2) pro forma depreciation, depletion and amortization expense related to the Financed Properties during such period (calculated in the same manner such pro forma depreciation, depletion and amortization expense was calculated in Schedule A, which considers the placed-in-service dates of the Financed Properties); and
including
 
(b) the total depreciation, depletion and amortization expense of the Company and its subsidiaries for the period commencing on the Closing Date and ended on September 30, 1998, (1) any gains (deductions from depreciation, depletion and amortization) or losses (additions to depreciation, depletion and amortization) on asset retirements during such period, (2) depreciation, depletion and amortization expense related to the Garyville Propylene Upgrade Project during such period and (3) depreciation, depletion and amortization expense related to all Company-funded Capital Expenditures, but (4) depreciation, depletion and amortization expense related to Member-Funded Capital Expenditures and (5) the increase or decrease in such depreciation, depletion and amortization expense related to the Ashland Transferred Assets (including pro forma depreciation, depletion and amortization expense related to the Financed Properties) resulting from the application of purchase accounting treatment to the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents (such purchase accounting treatment causing an increase or decrease in the estimated useful lives and the net book value of the Ashland Transferred Assets); and
including
excluding
 
(iv) for the twelve-month period ended September 30, 1999, and each twelve-month period ended September 30 thereafter, the total depreciation, depletion and amortization expense of the Company and its subsidiaries for such twelve-month period, , without duplication, (a) any gains (deductions from depreciation, depletion and amortization) or losses (additions to depreciation, depletion and amortization) on asset retirements during such period, (b) depreciation, depletion and amortization expense
including
 
related to the Garyville Propylene Upgrade Project during such period and (c) depreciation, depletion and amortization expense related to Company-funded Capital Expenditures but (d) depreciation, depletion and amortization expense related to Member-Funded Capital Expenditures and (e) the increase or decrease in such depreciation, depletion and amortization expense related to the Ashland Transferred Assets (including pro forma depreciation, depletion and amortization expense related to the Financed Properties) resulting from the application of purchase accounting treatment to the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents (such purchase accounting treatment causing an increase or decrease in the estimated useful lives and the net book value of the Ashland Transferred Assets);
excluding
 
all as determined on a consolidated basis with respect to (x) in the case of any period ending prior to the Closing Date, Marathon and its subsidiaries or Ashland and its subsidiaries, as applicable, or (y) in the case of any period ending on or after the Closing Date, the Company and its subsidiaries, in each case in accordance with Applicable GAAP.
 
"" means:
Adjusted EBITDA
 
(i) for the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 1995 and 1996, $657 million and $600 million, respectively;
 
(ii) for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 1997, the sum of:
 
(a) Historical EBITDA for such twelve-month period, plus
 
(b) $80 million, minus
 
(c) 38% of an amount equal to (1) the sum of the amounts calculated pursuant to clauses (a) and (b) above for such twelve-month period less (2) the Adjusted DD&A for such twelve-month period.
 
(iii) for the twelve-month period ended September 30, 1998, the sum of:
 
(a) for the period commencing on October 1, 1997, and ended on the date immediately preceding the Closing Date, the sum of:
 
(1) Historical EBITDA for such period, plus
 
(2) $20 million, minus
 
(3) 38% of an amount equal to (A) the sum of the amounts calculated pursuant to clauses (1) and (2) above with respect to such period less (B) the Adjusted DD&A for such period; and
 
(b) for the period commencing on the Closing Date and ended on September 30, 1998, the sum of:
 
(1) EBITDA of the Company and its subsidiaries for such period, plus
 
(2) $12.4 million, minus
 
(3) the Tax Distribution Amounts paid or to be paid in respect of each of the three Fiscal Quarters (or portion thereof) included in such period; and
 
(iv) for the twelve-month period ended September 30, 1999 and each twelve-month period ended September 30 thereafter, the sum of:
 
(a) EBITDA of the Company and its subsidiaries for such twelve-month period, minus
 
(b) the Tax Distribution Amounts paid or to be paid in respect of each of the four Fiscal Quarters included in such twelve-month period;
 
all as determined on a consolidated basis with respect to (x) in the case of any period ending prior to the Closing Date, Marathon and its subsidiaries or Ashland and its subsidiaries, as applicable, or (y) in the case of any period ending on or after the Closing Date, the Company and its subsidiaries, in each case in accordance with then Current GAAP (other than Ordinary Course Lease Expenses which shall be calculated in accordance with Applicable GAAP).
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01(b).
Advanced Amount
 
"" means any agreement or transaction between the Company or any of its subsidiaries and any Member or any Affiliate of any Member that:
Affiliate Transaction
 
(a) for purposes of Section 7.03(a)(i), will result or is reasonably anticipated will result in expenditures, contingent or actual liabilities or benefits to the Company and its subsidiaries in excess of $2 million;
 
(b) for purposes of Section 7.03(b), is either (i) outside the ordinary course of the Company and its subsidiaries' business and results or will result in contingent or actual liabilities or benefits to the Company and its subsidiaries in excess of $100,000 in the applicable Fiscal Year or (ii) within the ordinary course of the Company and its subsidiaries' business and results or will result in expenditures, contingent or actual liabilities or benefits to the Company and its subsidiaries (A) in excess of $2 million individually in the applicable Fiscal Year or (B) when taken together with all other agreements or transactions entered into the same Fiscal Year as such agreement or transaction which are either related to such agreement or transaction or are substantially the same type of agreement or transaction as such agreement or transaction, in excess of $2 million in the aggregate in the applicable Fiscal Year; and
 
(c) for purposes of Section 8.08(k)(i), is either (i) outside the ordinary course of the Company and its subsidiaries' business and will result or is reasonably anticipated will result in expenditures, contingent or actual liabilities or benefits to the Company and its subsidiaries in excess of $2 million or (ii) within the ordinary course of the Company and its subsidiaries' business and will result or is reasonably anticipated will result in expenditures, contingent or actual liabilities or benefits to the Company and its subsidiaries in excess of $25 million.
 
For purposes of this definition of Affiliate Transaction, any guarantee by a Member or any Affiliate of any Member of any obligations of the Company or any of its subsidiaries that is provided by such Member or such Affiliate without cost to the Company and its subsidiaries shall not be deemed to be an Affiliate Transaction. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Affiliate Transaction" shall not include any distributions of cash or other property to the Members pursuant to Article V.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.11(b).
Affiliate Transaction Dispute Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a)(i).
Aggregate Tax Rate
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.02(c).
Agreed Additional Capital Contributions
 
"" means this Limited Liability Company Agreement of the Company, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.09(a).
Annual Capital Budget
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.02.
Applicable GAAP
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.12.
Approved Marathon Crude Oil Purchase Program
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 13.04(a).
Arbitratable Dispute
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(a).
Arbitration Payment Due Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01(a).
Arbitration Proceeding
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Appendix B.
Arbitration Tribunal
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.11(a).
Arm's-Length Transaction
 
" shall mean the Ashland Sublease Agreements attached as Exhibits L-1, L-2, L-3 and L-4 to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Designated Sublease Agreements"
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.02(a).
Ashland-Funded Capital Expenditures
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.02(c).
Audited Financial Statements
 
"" means:
Average Annual DD&A
 
(a) for Fiscal Year 1998, the average of the Adjusted DD&A for the three twelve-month periods ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997;
 
(b) for Fiscal Year 1999, the average of the Adjusted DD&A (i) for the two twelve-month periods ended December 31, 1996 and 1997 and (ii) for the one twelve-month period ended September 30, 1998;
 
(c) for Fiscal Year 2000, the average of the Adjusted DD&A (i) for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 1997 and (ii) for the two twelve-month periods ending on September 30, 1998 and 1999; and
 
(d) for Fiscal Year 2001 and each Fiscal Year thereafter, the average of the Adjusted DD&A for the three twelve-month periods ending on September 30 in each of the three Fiscal Years immediately preceding such Fiscal Year.
 
"" means:
Average Adjusted EBITDA
 
(a) for Fiscal Year 1998, the average of the Adjusted EBITDA for the three twelve-month periods ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997;
 
(b) for Fiscal Year 1999, the average of the Adjusted EBITDA (i) for the two twelve-month periods ended December 31, 1996 and 1997 and (ii) for the one twelve-month period ended September 30, 1998;
 
(c) for Fiscal Year 2000, the average of the Adjusted EBITDA (i) for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 1997 and (ii) for the two twelve-month periods ending on September 30, 1998 and 1999; and
 
(d) for Fiscal Year 2001 and each Fiscal Year thereafter, the average of the Adjusted EBITDA for the three twelve-month periods ending on September 30 in each of the three Fiscal Years immediately preceding such Fiscal Year.
 
"" means for any twelve-month period ending on September 30 of any calendar year, the average of the level of the Price Index ascertained by adding the twelve monthly levels of the Price Index during such twelve-month period and dividing the total by twelve.
Average Annual Level
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.3(k) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Bareboat Charters
 
"" means 161.2.
Base Level
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Base Rate
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.02(a).
Board of Managers
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(h) of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Bulk Motor Oil Business
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.10.
Business Plan
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01.
Capital Account
 
"" means, for any period, the aggregate of all expenditures incurred by the Company and its subsidiaries during such period that, in accordance with Applicable GAAP, are or should be included in additions to property, plant or equipment or similar items reflected in the consolidated statement of cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries; , , that Capital Expenditures shall not include (a) exchanges of such items for other items, (b) expenditures of proceeds of insurance settlements by the Company or any of its subsidiaries in respect of lost, destroyed or damaged assets, equipment or other property to the extent such expenditures are made to replace or repair such lost, destroyed or damaged assets, equipment or other property within 18 months of such loss, destruction or damage, (c) funds expended by a Member or an Affiliate of a Member to purchase any Subleased Property that is contributed to the Company or a subsidiary of the Company pursuant to Section 4.01(c)(i)(A) or (d) Member-Funded Capital Expenditures; all as determined on a consolidated basis with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries in accordance with Applicable GAAP.
Capital Expenditures
provided
however
 
"" means any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its subsidiaries in accordance with Applicable GAAP.
Capital Lease
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.08(k)(i)(A).
Closing Date Affiliate Transactions
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01.
Company Independent Auditors
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.15.
Company Investment Guidelines
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.14.
Company Leverage Policy
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01(a) of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Competitive Business
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01(d) of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Competitive Third Party
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.11(b).
Contracting Member
 
"" means any Member, any Affiliate of a Member or any officers, directors, shareholders, partners, employees, representatives or agents of a Member or their respective Affiliates, or any Representative, or any employee, officer or agent of the Company or its Affiliates.
Covered Person
 
"" means each Primary Critical Decision and each Other Critical Decision.
Critical Decision
 
"" means (a) in the case of any Other Critical Decision, the first anniversary of the Closing Date or (b) in the case of any Primary Critical Decision, the first anniversary of the Closing Date or, if the Critical Decision Termination Date shall be extended with respect to such Primary Critical Decision as provided in Section 8.19(c), the fifteen-month anniversary of the Closing Date.
Critical Decision Termination Date
 
"" means any purchase of crude oil by the Company or any of its subsidiaries from Marathon or any Affiliate of Marathon.
Crude Oil Purchases
 
"" means, at any time, GAAP as in effect at such time.
Current GAAP
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01(a).
Delinquent Member
 
"" means the Ashland Designated Sublease Agreements and the Marathon Designated Sublease Agreements.
Designated Sublease Agreements
 
"" means any obligation of a Member to the Company or a subsidiary of the Company under Section 4.01(c) with respect to a Subleased Property or a Designated Sublease Agreement.
Designated Sublease Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 13.01.
Dispute
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 13.02.
Dispute Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 13.04(a).
Disputed Capital Contribution Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01(a).
Disputed Indemnification Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01(a).
Disputed Monetary Amount
 
"" means, for each Fiscal Quarter, without duplication:
Distributable Cash
 
(a) the Short-Term Investments of the Company and its subsidiaries on the last day of such Fiscal Quarter, minus
 
(b) the Ordinary Course Debt of the Company and its subsidiaries on the last day of such Fiscal Quarter, minus
 
(c) the Tax Distribution Amount to be paid in respect of such Fiscal Quarter, minus
 
(d) funds held on the last day of such Fiscal Quarter for financing Special Projects or Permitted Capital Projects/Acquisitions, minus
 
(e) if the notional repayment of principal for Special Project Indebtedness or Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness during such Fiscal Quarter calculated using a notional repayment schedule established and approved by the Board of Managers in accordance with the Company Leverage Policy was more than the amount of actual principal repayments for such Special Project Indebtedness or Permitted Capital
 
Project/Acquisition Indebtedness during such Fiscal Quarter, the amount of such excess, plus
 
(f) if the amount of the actual principal repayments for Special Project Indebtedness or Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness during such Fiscal Quarter was more than the notional repayment of principal for such Special Project Indebtedness or Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness during such Fiscal Quarter (calculated in the manner described in clause (e) above), the amount of such excess, plus or minus
 
(g) any adjustments or reserves (including any adjustments for minimum cash balance requirements, including cash reserves for accrued or withheld Taxes not yet due) in the amounts and for the time periods established and approved by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b).
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).
Distribution Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(c).
Distributions Calculation Statement
 
"" means for any period:
EBITDA
 
(a) net income, plus
 
(b) to the extent deducted in computing such net income, the sum of (i) estimated or actual Federal, state, local and foreign income tax expense, (ii) interest expense, (iii) depreciation, depletion and amortization expense, (iv) non-cash charges resulting from the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, and (v) non cash lower of cost or market inventory or fixed asset writedowns; minus
 
(c) to the extent added in computing such net income, (i) any interest income (excluding interest income on accounts receivable related to marketing programs), (ii) non-cash gains resulting from the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles and (iii) non-cash lower of cost or market inventory or fixed asset gains;
 
all as determined on a consolidated basis (x) in the case of any period ended prior to the Closing Date, Marathon and its subsidiaries or Ashland and its subsidiaries, as applicable, or (y) in the case of any period ending on or after the
 
Closing Date, with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries, in each case in accordance with then Current GAAP. For purposes of this definition, depreciation, depletion and amortization expense will include any gains (deductions from depreciation, depletion and amortization) or losses (additions to depreciation, depletion and amortization) on asset retirements and excess purchase price amortization adjustments. For the avoidance of doubt, EBITDA shall not include any revenues or expenses constituting Member-Funded Capital Expenditures or Member-Indemnified Expenditures.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.01(a).
Executive Officers
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(a).
Final Monetary Amount
 
"" means each of the properties listed in Schedule 1.01.
Financed Properties
 
"" means the three-month period ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each Fiscal Year.
Fiscal Quarter
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.05.
Fiscal Year
 
"" means the 1% interest in the Company which is owned by Fuelgas.
Fuelgas Interest
 
"" means United States generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis.
GAAP
 
"" means the propylene splitter with a capacity of approximately 800 million pounds per year that is being constructed at the Garyville refinery for the production of propylene.
Garyville Propylene Upgrade Project
 
"" means for any period ending prior to the Closing Date the sum of:
Historical EBITDA
 
(a) EBITDA of the Marathon Business for such period as adjusted for each of the "EBIT Adjustment" items set forth in lines 10-55 of Schedule B-1 and each of the "Depreciation Adjustment" items set forth in lines 133 through 150 of Schedule B-1, in each case calculated for such period in the same manner that such adjustments were calculated in Schedule B-1, plus
 
(b) EBITDA of the Ashland Business for such period as adjusted for each of the "EBIT Adjustment" items set forth in lines 11-56 of Schedule B-2 and each of the "Depreciation Adjustment" items set forth in lines 111-120 of Schedule B-2, in each case calculated for such period in the same manner that such adjustments were calculated in Schedule B-2;
 
all determined on a consolidated basis with respect to Marathon and its subsidiaries or Ashland and its subsidiaries, as applicable, in accordance with then Current GAAP.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.02.
Initial GAAP
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03.
Initial Term
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.02(d).
Make-Up Expense
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(d)(i) of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Maralube Express Business
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.12.
Marathon Crude Oil Purchase Program
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Sublease Agreements attached as Exhibits E-1, E-2 and E-3 to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Designated Sublease Agreements
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.02(a).
Marathon-Funded Capital Expenditures
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.02(a).
Member-Funded Capital Expenditures
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.02(b).
Member-Indemnified Expenditures
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01(a).
Monetary Dispute
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.11(b).
Non-Contracting Member
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01.
Non-Delinquent Member
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Non-Terminating Member
 
"" means, for each Fiscal Year, an amount equal to the sum of:
Normal Annual Capital Budget Amount
 
(i) an amount equal to 130% of the Average Annual DD&A for such Fiscal Year, plus
 
(ii) if, with respect to any Fiscal Year, (a) the Average Adjusted EBITDA for such Fiscal Year less the amount calculated pursuant to clause (i) above for such Fiscal Year exceeds (b) $240 million (such excess, the "" for such Fiscal Year), the sum of (1) the lesser of: (x) 10% of the Average Annual DD&A for such Fiscal Year and (y) the Excess EBITDA for such Fiscal Year and (2) 50% of the amount by which the Excess EBITDA for such Fiscal Year exceeds an amount equal to 10% of the Average Annual DD&A for such Fiscal Year.
Excess EBITDA
 
An example of the calculation of Adjusted DD&A, Adjusted EBITDA, Average Annual DD&A, Average Adjusted EBITDA and the Normal Annual Capital Budget Amount is shown in Schedule A. In the event of any inconsistency between such Schedule A and the language of this definition of Normal Annual Capital Budget Amount, neither shall control over the other.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.04(a).
Offer Notice
 
"" means, without duplication, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all loans and advances under any committed or uncommitted credit facilities (including any commercial paper borrowings or borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement, but excluding trade payables), that Ordinary Course Debt shall not include any Permitted Intercompany Debt, any Special Project Indebtedness or any Permitted Capital Project Indebtedness.
Ordinary Course Debt
provided
 
"" means, with respect to any Fiscal Year, the rental or lease expense for such Fiscal Year of assets rented or financed by operating leases (as determined in accordance with Applicable GAAP).
Ordinary Course Lease Expense
 
"" means the lease or charter underlying a Marathon Designated Sublease Agreement or an Ashland Designated Sublease Agreement in which Marathon or Ashland, as applicable, is the lessee or charterer.
Original Lease
 
"" means each of the Level III decisions set forth in paragraphs 2(c)(iii), (v), (vii), (viii) and (ix) of the Retail Integration Protocol.
Other Critical Decision
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(h) of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Packaged Motor Oil Business
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01.
Percentage Interest
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Company Leverage Policy.
Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Company Leverage Policy.
Permitted Intercompany Debt
 
"" means the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers of the United States Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics for all Urban Areas (on the 1982-84 equals 100 standard).
Price Index
 
"" means each of the Level III decisions set forth in paragraphs 2(c)(i), (ii), (iv) and (vi) of the Retail Integration Protocol.
Primary Critical Decision
 
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by Citibank, NA, as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective on the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(h) of the Put/Call Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Private Label Packaged Motor Oil Business
 
"", as appropriate, means, for any period, the taxable income or tax loss of the Company and its subsidiaries under Code Section 703(a) and Treasury Regulation Section 1.703-1 for the Fiscal Year, adjusted as follows:
Profit and Loss
 
(a) All items of income, gain, loss or deduction required to be separately stated pursuant to Code Section 703(a)(1) shall be included;
 
(b) Tax exempt income as described in Code Section 705(a)(1)(B) realized by the Company during such Fiscal Year shall be taken into account as if it were taxable income;
 
(c) Expenditures of the Company described in Code Section 705(a)(2)(B) for such Fiscal Year, including items treated under Treasury Regulation Section .704-1(b)(2)(iv)(i) as items described in Code Section 705(a)(2)(B), shall be taken into account as if they were deductible items;
 
(d) With respect to any property (other than money) which has been contributed to the capital of the Company, "Profit" and "Loss" shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(g) by computing depreciation, amortization, income, gain, loss or deduction based upon the fair market value of such property at the date of contribution. Book depreciation (as that term is used in Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-(b)(2)(iv)(g)(3)) for any asset contributed to the Company that was fully depreciated for federal income tax purposes as of the date of its contribution shall be based on the applicable recovery period (as determined in Code Section 168(c)) for new assets of the same type;
 
(e) With respect to any property of the Company which has been revalued as required or permitted by Treasury Regulations under Code Section 704(b), "Profit" or "Loss" shall be determined based upon the fair market value of such property as determined in such revaluation; and
 
(f) With respect to any property of the Company which (i) is distributed in kind to a Member, or (ii) has been revalued under Section 6.03 upon the occurrence of any event specified in Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(f), the difference between the adjusted basis for federal income tax purposes and the fair market value shall be treated as gain or loss upon the disposition of such property.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.02(c).
Qualified Candidate
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(h) of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Quick Lube Business
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(d).
Refundable Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.01
Representatives
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 13.02.
Response
 
"" means the Speedway SuperAmerica LLC Retail Integration Protocol attached hereto as Exhibit A.
Retail Integration Protocol
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a) of the Master Formation Agreement.
Revolving Credit Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.11(b).
Section 8.11(b) Affiliate Transaction
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.05(a).
Security Interest
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.04(a).
Selling Member
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 13.02.
Senior Manager
 
"" means an administrative service that is provided to the Company or its subsidiaries by Marathon, Ashland or any of their respective Affiliates pursuant to the Shared Services Agreement or provided to Marathon, Ashland or any of their respective Affiliates by the Company or its subsidiaries pursuant to the Shared Services Agreement.
Shared Service
 
"" means the Shared Services Agreement by and among Marathon, Ashland and the Company, including the Schedules thereto, attached as Exhibit U to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Shared Services Agreement
 
"" means, without duplication, collected or available bank cash balances, the fair market value of any investment made by the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to the Company's Investment Guidelines and the fair market value of any investment made by the Company or any of its subsidiaries that should have been made pursuant to the Company's Investment Guidelines, but excluding Incidental Cash and any cash balances that represent uncollected funds.
Short-Term Investments
 
"" means (a) any Shared Service related to the Treasury and Cash Management function and (b) any Shared Service (or group of related Shared
Significant Shared Service
 
Services) that results or is reasonably anticipated to result in the payment by or to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of more than $2 million in any contract year in the period during which such Shared Service will be provided. For purposes of determining whether the $2 million threshold of this definition has been satisfied, payments for all Shared Services in each of the following general administrative areas shall be aggregated within each area specified below and considered related Shared Services: Human Resources; Health, Environment and Safety; Law; Public Affairs; Governmental Affairs; Finance and Accounting (including Internal Audit); Administrative Services; Information Technology Services; Procurement; Business Development; Aviation; Engineering and Technology; Economics; and Security.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Appendix B.
Sole Arbitrator
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Company Leverage Policy.
Special Project
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Company Leverage Policy.
Special Project Indebtedness
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a) of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Special Termination Right
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.01(c).
Subleased Property
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.08.
Super Majority Decision
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Company Leverage Policy.
Surplus Cash
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).
Tax Distribution Amount
 
"" means, with respect to a Fiscal Year, a Member's liability for Federal, state, local and foreign taxes attributable to taxable income allocated to such Member pursuant to Section 6.03 and Section 10.03, taking into account any Tax deduction or loss specifically allocated to a Member pursuant to this Agreement or any other Transaction Document.
Tax Liability
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03.
Term of the Company
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a) of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Terminating Member
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.02(a).
Unaudited Financial Statements
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(h) of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Valvoline Business
 
SECTION 1.02. In connection with the calculation pursuant to this Agreement of Adjusted DD&A, Capital Expenditures or Ordinary Course Lease Expenses, the determination of whether a lease is a Capital Lease or the determination of whether the Company has entered into an operating lease for purposes of Section 8.16 (each such calculation or determination, an ""), the Company shall apply then Current GAAP; , , that if at any time after January 1, 1998, a change shall occur in GAAP which would result in any Accounting Determination being different under Current GAAP than such Accounting Determination would have been under GAAP as in effect on January 1, 1998 (""), then (a) the Members shall negotiate in good faith to make such amendments to the relevant provisions of this Agreement as shall be required to preserve the economic and other results intended by the Members as of January 1, 1998 with respect to such Accounting Determination and (b) unless and until such time as the Members shall in good faith mutually agree to such amendments, Initial GAAP shall be applied to make such Accounting Determination or, if the Members shall have previously amended the relevant provisions of this Agreement pursuant to this Section 1.02 in response to a prior change in GAAP, then GAAP as in effect at the time the most recent such previous amendment was made shall be used to make such Accounting Determination (the GAAP that is actually applied by the Company in making any such Accounting Determination pursuant to this Agreement being the "").
Applicable GAAP.
Accounting Determination
provided
however
Initial GAAP
Applicable GAAP
 
 
 
SECTION 2.01. The Company has been formed as a limited liability company pursuant to the provisions of the Delaware Act by the filing of the Certificate of Formation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. Pursuant to Section 18-201(d) of the Delaware Act, the provisions of this Agreement shall be
Formation; Effectiveness.
 
effective as of the Closing Date. Each Member hereby adopts, confirms and ratifies the Certificate of Formation and all acts taken in connection therewith. Ashland shall be admitted as a member of the Company upon its execution and delivery of this Agreement. Except as provided in this Agreement, the rights, duties, liabilities and powers of the Members shall be as provided in the Delaware Act.
 
SECTION 2.02. The name of the Company shall be Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC. The Board of Managers may adopt such trade or fictitious names as it may determine.
Name.
 
SECTION 2.03. Subject to the provisions of Article XV providing for early termination in certain circumstances and the provisions of Article IX of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement, the initial term of the Company (the "") began on the date the Certificate of Formation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, and shall continue until the close of business on December 31, 2022 and, thereafter, the term of the Company shall be automatically extended for successive 10-year periods unless at least two years prior to the end of the Initial Term or any succeeding 10-year period, as applicable, a Member notifies the Board of Managers and the other Member in writing that it wants to terminate the term of the Company at the end of the Initial Term or such 10-year period, in which event, the term of the Company shall not thereafter be extended for a successive ten-year term. The President of the Company shall notify each Member in writing at least six months prior to each such two-year notification date that the Term of the Company will be automatically extended unless a Member provides a notice to the contrary pursuant to this Section 2.03. The failure of the President of the Company to give such notice, or any defect in any notice so given, shall not affect the Members' rights to terminate the Term of the Company pursuant to this Section 2.03, and shall not result in a termination of the Term of the Company unless a Member provides a notice to the contrary pursuant to this Section 2.03. The Initial Term, together with any such extensions, is hereinafter referred to as the "". The existence of the Company as a separate legal entity shall continue until the cancelation of the Certificate of Formation in the manner provided in the Delaware Act.
Term.
Initial Term
Term of the Company
 
SECTION 2.04. The name of the registered agent of the Company for service of process on the Company in the State of Delaware is The Corporation Trust Company, and the address of the registered
Registered Agent and Office.
 
agent and the address of the office of the Company in the State of Delaware is c/o The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801. The Board of Managers may change such office and such agent from time to time in its sole discretion.
 
SECTION 2.05. (a) The purpose of the Company is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a limited liability company may be formed under the Delaware Act (either directly or indirectly through one or more subsidiaries). It is the Members' understanding and intent that (i) the Company will be an independent, self-funding entity, (ii) no additional capital contributions are expected to be required by the Members and (iii) the administrative requirements of the Company will generally be provided by the Company's own employees. In furtherance of this understanding and intent, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, unless the Members shall mutually agree otherwise, the following administrative functions and services shall be provided substantially by the Company and its subsidiaries' employees (or by its unaffiliated third party contractors) under the supervision and control of the Company's officers: Human Resources; Health, Environment and Safety; Law; Finance and Accounting; Internal Audit; Treasury and Cash Management; and Information Technology. For the avoidance of doubt, the Members acknowledge and agree that the provision at any time of the specific Shared Services identified and described in Schedule 10.2(e) to the Marathon Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter and Schedule 10.2(e) to the Ashland Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter to the Company and its subsidiaries by the Members shall not be deemed to violate the requirements of the immediately preceding sentence.
Purpose.
 
(b) The Company, and the President on behalf of the Company, may enter into and perform the Transaction Documents and the Commercial Documents to which the Company is a party without any further act, vote or approval of the Board of Managers or the Members notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Delaware Act or other Applicable Law. The President of the Company is hereby authorized to enter into such Transaction Documents and such Commercial Documents on behalf of the Company, but such authorization shall not be deemed a restriction on the power of the Board of Managers to enter into other agreements on behalf of the Company.
 
SECTION 2.06. In furtherance of its purposes, but subject to all the provisions of this
Powers.
 
Agreement, the Company shall have the power and is hereby authorized to:
 
(a) acquire by purchase, lease, contribution of property or otherwise, own, operate, hold, sell, convey, transfer or dispose of any real or personal property which may be necessary, convenient or incidental to the accomplishment of the purpose of the Company;
 
(b) act as a trustee, executor, nominee, bailee, director, officer, agent or in some other fiduciary capacity for any person or entity and to exercise all the powers, duties, rights and responsibilities associated therewith;
 
(c) take any and all actions necessary, convenient or appropriate as trustee, executor, nominee, bailee, director, officer, agent or other fiduciary, including the granting or approval of waivers, consents or amendments of rights or powers relating thereto and the execution of appropriate documents to evidence such waivers, consents or amendments;
 
(d) borrow money and issue evidences of indebtedness in furtherance of any or all of the purposes of the Company, and secure the same by mortgage, pledge or other lien on the assets of the Company;
 
(e) invest any funds of the Company pending distribution or payment of the same pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement;
 
(f) prepay in whole or in part, refinance, recast, increase, modify or extend any Indebtedness of the Company and, in connection therewith, execute any extensions, renewals or modifications of any mortgage or security agreement securing such Indebtedness;
 
(g) enter into, perform and carry out contracts of any kind, including, without limitation, contracts with any person or entity affiliated with any of the Members, necessary to, in connection with, convenient to, or incidental to the accomplishment of the purposes of the Company;
 
(h) employ or otherwise engage employees, managers, contractors, advisors, attorneys and consultants and pay reasonable compensation for such services;
 
(i) enter into partnerships, limited liability companies, trusts, associations, corporations or other ventures with other persons or entities in furtherance of the purposes of the Company; and
 
(j) do such other things and engage in such other activities related to the foregoing as may be necessary, convenient or incidental to the conduct of the business of the Company, and have and exercise all of the powers and rights conferred upon limited liability companies formed pursuant to the Delaware Act.
 
 
 
SECTION 3.01. The names and addresses of the Members and their respective percentage interests in the Company ("") are as follows:
Members; Percentage Interests.
Percentage Interests
 
 
Marathon's Percentage Interest shall be deemed to include the Fuelgas Interest. Promptly after the Closing, Marathon will cause Fuelgas to merge with and into Marathon.
 
SECTION 3.02. Marathon's and Ashland's Percentage Interests, and the Percentage Interests of each other Member, if any, shall be adjusted (a) at the time of any Transfer of such Member's Membership Interests pursuant to Section 10.02 and (b) at the time of the admission of each new Member pursuant to such terms and conditions as the Board of Managers from time to time shall determine pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b), in each case to take into account such Transfer or admission of a new Member.
Adjustments in Percentage Interests.
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01. (a) On or before the Closing Date, Marathon shall contribute, convey, transfer, assign and deliver to the Company or shall have contributed, conveyed, transferred, assigned and delivered to the Company, the Marathon Transferred Assets, and Ashland shall contribute, convey, transfer, assign and deliver to the Company or shall have contributed, conveyed, transferred, assigned and delivered to the Company, the Ashland Transferred Assets, in each case pursuant to terms and conditions of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement. In addition, any additional assets that Marathon or Ashland are required to contribute, convey, transfer, assign and deliver to the Company at a later date pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement shall be so contributed at such later date.
Contributions.
 
(b) The Company shall assume, as of the Closing Date, the Assumed Liabilities pursuant to the terms of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
 
(c) (i) Each Member has agreed, pursuant to the Designated Sublease Agreements to which it is a party, to sublease to the Company or one of its subsidiaries the assets or property listed on Schedule 4.01(c) ("") for a nominal consideration in lieu of transferring such property to the Company or such subsidiary, free of any Liens, other than Permitted Encumbrances, as a capital contribution.
Payments or Damages under Designated Sublease Agreements as Contributions.
Subleased Property
 
(A) If at any time after January 1, 1998 a Member in its capacity as a sublessor shall become the owner of any Subleased Property, such Member shall promptly contribute, convey, transfer, assign and deliver to the Company (or, if the Company so directs, to one of its subsidiaries) at no cost to the Company or such subsidiary, and the Company hereby agrees to accept, or to cause such subsidiary to accept, such Subleased Property and the related Designated Sublease Agreement shall be terminated with respect to such Subleased Property, all as more specifically set forth in such Designated Sublease Agreement. In addition, if at any time after January 1, 1998 a Member assigns to the Company (or a subsidiary of the Company) a purchase option with respect to a Subleased Property pursuant to a Designated Sublease Agreement and the Company or such
 
subsidiary exercises such purchase option and pays all or a portion of the purchase price therefor, such Member shall promptly reimburse the Company or such subsidiary such amount so paid and, if not so reimbursed, such amount shall be subject to set-off pursuant to Section 14.04. Any such payment by the Company shall be treated as a distribution to the appropriate Member for capital account purposes, and any such amount paid to the Company or such subsidiary by a Member in connection with such reimbursement obligation, or to the extent of a set-off applied pursuant to Section 14.04 as a result of such failure to so reimburse, shall be treated as a capital contribution to the Company.
 
(B) Any amount paid by the Company or any of its subsidiaries under a Designated Sublease Agreement to cure or prevent a payment default by the sublessor Member under the underlying Original Lease shall be reimbursed to the Company or such subsidiary by such Member, and if not so reimbursed, shall be subject to set-off pursuant to Section 14.04. Any such payment by the Company shall be treated as a distribution to the appropriate Member for capital account purposes, and any such amount paid to the Company or such subsidiary by a Member in connection with a default of its payment obligations under its respective Designated Sublease Agreements, or to the extent of a set-off applied pursuant to Section 14.04 as a result of such default, shall be treated as a capital contribution to the Company.
 
(C) None of the capital contributions pursuant to (A) and (B) above shall result in any adjustment to the Members' respective Percentage Interests in the Company.
 
(ii) If (A) a Member commences a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, receivership, reorganization or other similar law now in effect, or an order for relief is entered against such Member in an involuntary case under any such law and (B) a trustee of such Member rejects a Designated Sublease Agreement of such Member, then (1) the Member shall be obligated to reimburse the Company for the Loss to the Company as a result of such rejected Designated Sublease Agreement, which Loss, if not so reimbursed, shall be subject to set-off pursuant to Section 14.04 prior to the interest of such Member in any distributions hereunder and (2) the amount of such Loss shall be deemed to be the loss of use of such
 
Subleased Property for the economic life thereof rather than any other period.
 
SECTION 4.02. (a) For each Capital Expenditure project identified on Schedule 4.02(a)-1, Marathon shall contribute to the Company the amount of funds necessary to comply with its obligations under Section 7.1(j) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement with respect to such Capital Expenditure project as, when and if the Company actually incurs Capital Expenditures related to such Capital Expenditure project (such Capital Expenditures, as, when and if they are funded by Marathon, are referred to herein as the ""). For each Capital Expenditure project identified on Schedule 4.02(a)-2, Ashland shall contribute to the Company the amount of funds necessary to comply with its obligations under Section 7.2(k) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement with respect to such Capital Expenditure project as, when and if the Company actually incurs Capital Expenditures related to such Capital Expenditure project (such Capital Expenditures, as, when and if they are funded by Ashland, are referred to herein as the "", and together with the Marathon-Funded Capital Expenditures, the ""). Each Member-Funded Capital Expenditure shall be treated as a capital contribution to the Company, but shall not result in any adjustment to the Members' respective Percentage Interests in the Company. To the extent permitted by applicable Tax law, any Tax deduction by the Company of a Member-Funded Capital Expenditure shall be specially allocated so that each Member will have the Tax benefit of its Member-Funded Capital Expenditures.
Additional Contributions.
Member-Funded Capital Expenditures.
Marathon-Funded Capital Expenditures
Ashland-Funded Capital Expenditures
Member-Funded Capital Expenditures
 
(b) Any indemnity amount paid by Marathon or Ashland to the Company under Article IX of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement (each a "") shall be treated as a capital contribution to the Company, but shall not result in any adjustment to the Members' respective Percentage Interests in the Company. A determination of whether the associated Loss will be deducted or capitalized by the Company for Tax purposes shall be made by the Company at the direction of the Indemnifying Party. Any Tax deduction or loss claimed by the Company with respect to the indemnified amount shall be specially allocated to the Indemnifying Party.
Indemnification Payments as Contributions.
Member-Indemnified Expenditure
 
(c) The Members shall make other additional capital contributions
Other Additional Capital Contributions.
 
("") based on their respective Percentage Interests if and to the extent such capital contributions are approved by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b).
Agreed Additional Capital Contributions
pro
rata
 
(d) The provisions of this Agreement, including without limitation, this Section 4.02, are intended solely to benefit the Members and, to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law, shall not be construed as conferring any benefit upon any creditor of the Company other than the Members, and no such creditor of the Company other than the Members shall be a third-party beneficiary of this Agreement, and no Member or member of the Board of Managers shall have any duty or obligation to any creditor of the Company to issue any call for capital pursuant to this Agreement.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries.
 
SECTION 4.03. Neither of the Members shall have any obligation to the Company or to the other Member to restore any negative balance in its Capital Account. Neither Member may withdraw capital or receive any distributions from the Company except as specifically provided herein. No interest shall be paid by the Company on any capital contributions.
Negative Balances; Withdrawal of Capital; Interest.
 
 
 
SECTION 5.01. (a) Within 45 days after the end of each Fiscal Quarter during each Fiscal Year, the Company shall distribute to the Members (the date of such distribution being a "") an amount in cash (the "") determined as follows:
Distributions.
Distribution Date
Tax Distribution Amount
 
(i) The maximum Tax Liability of each Member with respect to its allocable portion (as provided in Section 6.03) of the Company's estimated taxable income for the portion of such Fiscal Year ending on the last day of such Fiscal Quarter shall be determined, based upon the highest aggregate marginal statutory Federal, state and local income tax rate (determined taking into account the deductibility, to the extent allowed, of income-based taxes paid to governmental entities) to which any Member may be subject for the related Fiscal Year (and excluding any deferred taxes) (the "").
Aggregate Tax Rate
 
(ii) If the Tax Liability determined in clause (i) is positive with respect to either Member, there shall be a cash distribution to each of the Members, in accordance with their Percentage Interests, of an aggregate amount such that neither Member shall have received distributions under this clause and subsection (b) below for such portion of such Fiscal Year in an amount less than its Tax Liability for such portion of such Fiscal Year.
 
(iii) Following a determination by the Company of the Company's actual net taxable income with respect to a Fiscal Year, the maximum Tax Liability of each Member with respect to its allocable portion (as provided in Section 6.03) of the Company's net taxable income for such Fiscal Year shall be determined, based upon the Aggregate Tax Rate. If the maximum Tax Liability of any Member for the Fiscal Year is in excess of the cash distributions previously made to the Member for such Fiscal Year under clause (ii) above and subsection (b) below, the Company shall make a cash distribution to all the Members, in accordance with their Percentage Interests, of an aggregate amount such that the excess is eliminated for all the Members. Such distribution shall be made within 45 days of the date the Company's actual net taxable income is determined.
 
(iv) In the event that the Company Independent Auditors determine pursuant to Section 7.02(d) that the Company's actual net taxable income with respect to a Fiscal Year is greater than the amount determined by the Company pursuant to clause (iii) above, the Company shall make a determination of the amount of cash, if any, required to be distributed to the Members, in accordance with their Percentage Interests, such that, after taking into account cash distributions previously made to a Member under clauses (ii) and (iii) above and subsection (b) below, no Member shall receive less than its Tax Liability for such Fiscal Year based on such higher net taxable income amount. The Company shall, within 15 days after the determination is made, distribute such additional amount of cash to the Members, in accordance with their Percentage Interests.
 
(v) In the event that the Company Independent Auditors determine pursuant to Section 7.02(d) that the Company's actual net taxable income with respect to a Fiscal Year is less than the amount determined by the Company pursuant to clause (iii) above, a determination shall be made of the excess Tax Distribution Amount that was distributed to the Members in respect of such
 
Fiscal Year based on the Company's determination of its actual net taxable income and the Company shall deduct from the next Tax Distribution Amount payable to the Members pursuant to this Section 5.01, the amount of such excess distribution.
 
(b) In addition to the distributions pursuant to Section 5.01(a), on each Distribution Date, the Company shall distribute to the Members all Distributable Cash for the Fiscal Quarter to which such Distribution Date relates , , that the distribution of (i) Distributable Cash pursuant to this paragraph 5.01(b) or (ii) cash pursuant to Section 5.01(a) above, in each case with respect to any Fiscal Quarter may be made in such other manner and in such other amount as the Members shall agree with respect to such Fiscal Quarter; provided, further, however, that any agreement by any Member with respect to the distribution of either Distributable Cash pursuant to this paragraph 5.01(b) or cash pursuant to Section 5.01(a) for any Fiscal Quarter pursuant to the preceding proviso shall not alter or waive any of the rights of either Member under this Agreement with respect to distributions of Distributable Cash pursuant to this paragraph 5.01(b) or cash pursuant to Section 5.01(a) with respect to any subsequent Fiscal Quarter. Subject to Section 5.02(b), each such distribution shall be allocated between the Members based upon their respective Percentage Interests.
provided
however
pro
rata
 
(c) The Company shall prepare and distribute to each Member within 45 days after the end of each Fiscal Quarter a statement (a "") setting forth the calculations (in reasonable detail) used by the Company for purposes of distributions pursuant to this Section 5.01 of (i) the Tax Distribution Amount for each Member for such Fiscal Quarter, (ii) the amount of Distributable Cash for such Fiscal Quarter and (iii) the allocation of such Distributable Cash between the Members.
Distributions Calculation Statement
 
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, any agreement reached between the Members to distribute any amount of cash different from the amounts which would be calculated in accordance with the methodology set forth in Section 5.01(a) and Section 5.01(b) above shall not alter or waive in any manner the obligations of the Company to prepare and deliver the Distributions Calculation Statement as set forth in Section 5.01(c) above, and after any such agreement has been reached the Company shall continue to prepare and deliver such Distribution Calculation Statement with respect to each Fiscal Quarter as if no such agreement had been reached.
 
SECTION 5.02. (a) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the Company, and the Board of Managers on behalf of the Company, shall not be required to make a distribution to either Member with respect to such Member's Membership Interests if such distribution would violate Section 18-607 of the Delaware Act or other applicable law.
Certain General Limitations.
 
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article V, all amounts distributed to the Members in connection with a dissolution of the Company or the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the Company that results in a dissolution of the Company shall be distributed to the Members in accordance with their respective Capital Account balances, as adjusted pursuant to Article VI for all Company operations up to and including the date of such distribution.
 
SECTION 5.03. The Company shall not distribute to the Members any assets in kind unless approved by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b). If cash and property in kind are to be distributed simultaneously, the Company shall distribute such cash and property in kind in the same proportion to each Member, unless otherwise approved by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b). For purposes of determining amounts distributable to Members under Section 5.01, for purposes of determining Profit and Loss under Section 1.01, for purposes of making adjustments to Capital Accounts under Article VI and for purposes of allocations under Article VI, any property to be distributed in kind shall have the value assigned to such property by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b) and such value shall be deemed to be part of and included in Distributable Cash for purposes of determining distributions to the Members under this Agreement.
Distributions in Kind.
 
SECTION 5.04. In the event of an exercise by Marathon of its Marathon Call Right or its Special Termination Right or the exercise by Ashland of its Ashland Put Right or its Special Termination Right pursuant to the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement, certain distributions to Ashland or Marathon, as applicable, will be suspended in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.01 thereof.
Distributions in the Event of an Exercise of the Marathon Call Right, Ashland Put Right or the Special Termination Rights.
 
 
 
SECTION 6.01. . An account (a "") shall be established and maintained in the Company's books for each Member in accordance with Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv) and to which the following provisions apply to the extent not inconsistent with such Regulation:
Maintenance of Capital Accounts
Capital Account
 
(a) There shall be credited to each Member's Capital Account (i) the amount of money contributed by such Member to the Company (including liabilities of the Company assumed by such Member as provided in Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(c)), (ii) the fair market value of any property contributed by the Member to the Company (net of liabilities secured by such contributed property that the Company is considered to assume or take subject to under Code Section 752), and (iii) such Member's share of the Company's Profit;
 
(b) There shall be debited from each Member's Capital Account (i) the amount of money distributed to such Member by the Company (including liabilities of such Member assumed by the Company as provided in Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(c)) other than amounts which are in repayment of debt obligations of the Company to such Member, (ii) the fair market value of property distributed to such Member (net of liabilities secured by such property that such Member is considered to assume or take subject to under Code Section 752), and (iii) such Member's share of the Company's Loss;
 
(c) To each Member's Capital Account there shall be credited, in the case of an increase, or debited, in the case of a decrease, such Member's share of any adjustment to the adjusted basis of Company assets pursuant to Code Section 734(b) or Code Section 743(b) to the extent provided by Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-(b)(2)(iv)(m); and
 
(d) Upon the transfer of all or any part of the Membership Interests of a Member, the Capital Account of the transferee Member shall include the portion of the Capital Account of the transferor Member attributable to such transferred Membership Interest (or portion thereof).
 
SECTION 6.02. (a) Except as provided in Section 6.02(b), 6.02(c), 6.02(d) and 6.02(e), Profit or Loss for any Fiscal Year shall be allocated
Allocations.
 
between the Members in proportion to their respective Percentage Interests.
 
(b) To the extent any Tax deduction or loss is specifically allocated to a Member pursuant to this Agreement (other than pursuant to Section 6.03) or any other Transaction Document, including any deduction or loss indemnified by a Member, any Member-Funded Capital Expenditure, any Member-Indemnified Expenditure and any special allocations pursuant to Sections 6.12, 6.13, 6.14, 6.15 and 6.16 the associated Profit and Loss shall be allocated to the same Member.
 
(c) Depreciation and amortization with respect to any asset contributed by a Member to the Company shall be allocated solely to such Member.
 
(d) If any asset contributed by a Member is sold or otherwise disposed of prior to the time such asset has been completely depreciated or amortized for Federal income tax purposes, the Member contributing such property shall be allocated an expense ("Make-Up Expense") equal to (i) the remaining tax basis of the asset at the time of the sale or other disposition, multiplied by (ii) the other Member's Percentage Interest at the time of such sale or other disposition. The contributing Member shall be allocated Make-Up Expense over the remaining tax life of the asset at the time of sale or other disposition at the same rate as depreciation or amortization would have been allocated to such Member if the sale or other disposition had not occurred. Make-Up Expense allocated to a Member shall be taken from and reduce the amount of expenses allocated to the other Member. The purpose for this provision is to allocate to a Member, with respect to depreciable or amortizable assets contributed by such Member, a total amount of deductions and cost recovery allowances equal to 100% of the basis of such assets at the time of contribution.
 
(e) In the event that the Company sells or otherwise disposes of all or substantially all its assets or engages in any other transaction that will lead to a liquidation of the Company, then, notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.02, (i) any Profit or Loss realized by the Company in such transaction and (ii), to the extent necessary, any other Profit or Loss in the Fiscal Year such transaction occurs or thereafter (and, in each case, to the extent necessary, constituent items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit) shall be specially allocated as between the Members as required so as to cause
 
in so far as possible each Member's Capital Account balance to be proportionate to its Percentage Interest.
 
SECTION 6.03. (a) For income tax purposes only, each item of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit of the Company as determined for income tax purposes shall be allocated between the Members in accordance with the corresponding allocation in Section 6.02, subject to the requirements of Section 704(c) of the Code.
Tax Allocations.
 
(b) The Members acknowledge and agree that Section 704(c) shall be applied using the so-called "traditional method with curative allocations" set forth in Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-3(c). Curative allocations of income, gain, loss or deduction shall, to the extent possible, have substantially the same effect on each Member's Federal income tax liability as the item of income, gain, loss or deduction for which allocation is limited.
 
(c) By reason of the special allocation of book depreciation and amortization with respect to the assets contributed by the Members pursuant to Section 6.02(c), tax depreciation and amortization with respect to each such asset shall be allocated solely to the contributing Member.
 
(d) Items described in this Section 6.03 shall neither be credited nor charged to the Members' Capital Accounts.
 
SECTION 6.04. (a) The Members intend that the Company be treated as a partnership for Federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, neither the Tax Matters Partner nor either Member shall file any election or return on its own behalf or on behalf of the Company that is inconsistent with that intent.
Tax Elections.
 
(b) Any elections or other decisions relating to tax matters that are not expressly provided for herein, including the determination of the fair market value of contributed property and the decision to adjust the Capital Accounts to reflect the fair market value of the Company's assets upon the occurrence of any event specified in Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(f), shall be made jointly by the Members in any manner that reasonably reflects the purpose and intention of this Agreement.
 
SECTION 6.05. The fiscal year (the "") of the Company for tax and accounting purposes shall be the 12-month (or shorter) period ending on the last day of December of each year.
Fiscal Year.
Fiscal Year
 
SECTION 6.06. (a) The Company shall cause to be prepared and timely filed all Federal, state, local and foreign income tax returns and reports required to be filed by the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company shall provide copies of all the Company's Federal, state, local and foreign tax returns (and any schedules or other required filings related to such returns) that reflect items of income, gain, deduction, loss or credit that flow to separate Member returns, to the Members for their review and comment prior to filing, except as otherwise agreed by the Members. The Members agree in good faith to resolve any difference in the tax treatment of any item affecting such returns and schedules. However, if the Members are unable to resolve the dispute, the position of the Tax Matters Partner shall be followed if nationally recognized tax counsel acceptable to both Members provides an opinion that substantial authority exists for such position. Substantial authority shall be given the meaning ascribed to it in Code Section 6662. If the Members are unable to resolve the dispute prior to the due date for filing the return, including approved extensions, the position of the Tax Matters Partner shall be followed, and amended returns shall be filed if necessary at such time the dispute is resolved. The costs of the dispute shall be borne by the Company. The Members agree to file their separate Federal income tax returns in a manner consistent with the Company's return, the provisions of this Agreement and in accordance with applicable Federal income tax law.
Tax Returns.
 
(b) The Company shall elect the most rapid method of depreciation and amortization allowed under Applicable Law, unless the Members agree otherwise. The failure of either Member to agree that the Company should elect a less rapid method of depreciation or amortization is not subject to any dispute resolution provisions.
 
(c) The Members shall provide each other with copies of all correspondence or summaries of other communications with the Internal Revenue Service or any state, local or foreign taxing authority (other than routine correspondence and communications) regarding the tax treatment of the Company's operations. No Member shall enter into settlement negotiations with the Internal Revenue Service or any state, local or foreign taxing authority with respect to any issue concerning the Company's income, gains, losses, deductions or credits if the tax adjustment attributable to such issue (assuming the then current Aggregate Tax Rate) would be $2 million or greater, without first giving reasonable advance notice of such intended action to the other Member.
 
SECTION 6.07. (a) Initially, Marathon shall be the "Tax Matters Partner" of the Company within the meaning of Section 6231(a)(7) of the Code, and shall act in any similar capacity under state, local or foreign law, but only with respect to returns for which items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit flow to the separate returns of the Members. In the event of a transfer of any Member's interest in the Company, the Tax Matters Partner shall be the Member with the largest Percentage Interest following such transfer.
Tax Matters Partner.
 
(b) The Tax Matters Partner shall incur no liability (except as a result of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Tax Matters Partner) to the other Member including, but not limited to, liability for any additional taxes, interest or penalties owed by the other Member due to adjustments of Company items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit at the Company level.
 
SECTION 6.08. (a) Except as provided in Section 6.08(b), the Tax Matters Partner shall cooperate with the other Member and shall promptly provide the other Member with copies of notices or other materials from, and inform the other Member of discussions engaged in with, the Internal Revenue Service or any state, local or foreign taxing authority and shall provide the other Member with notice of all scheduled administrative proceedings, including meetings with agents of the Internal Revenue Service or any state, local or foreign taxing authority, technical advice conferences, appellate hearings, and similar conferences and hearings, as soon as possible after receiving notice of the scheduling of such proceedings, but in any case prior to the date of such scheduled proceedings.
Duties of Tax Matters Partner.
 
(b) The duties of the Tax Matters Partner under Section 6.08(a) shall not apply with respect to notices, materials, discussions, proceedings, meetings, conferences, or hearings involving any issue concerning the Company's income, gains, losses, deductions or credits if the tax adjustment attributable to such issue (assuming the then current Aggregate Tax Rate) would be less than $2 million except as otherwise required under Applicable Law.
 
(c) The Tax Matters Partner shall not extend the period of limitations or assessments without the consent of the other Member, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
 
(d) The Tax Matters Partner shall not file a petition or complaint in any court, or file any claim,
 
amended return or request for an administrative adjustment with respect to partnership items, after any return has been filed, with respect to any issue concerning the Company's income, gains, losses, deductions or credits if the tax adjustment attributable to such issue (assuming the then current Aggregate Tax Rate) would be $2 million or greater, unless agreed by the other Member. If the other Member does not agree, the position of the Tax Matters Partner shall be followed if nationally recognized tax counsel acceptable to both Members issues an opinion that a reasonable basis exists for such position. Reasonable basis shall be given the meaning ascribed to it for purposes of applying Code Section 6662. The costs of the dispute shall be borne by the Company.
 
(e) The Tax Matters Partner shall not enter into any settlement agreement with the Internal Revenue Service or any state, local or foreign taxing authority, either before or after any audit of the applicable return is completed, with respect to any issue concerning the Company's income, gains, losses, deductions or credits, unless any of the following apply:
 
(i) both Members agree to the settlement;
 
(ii) the tax effect of the issue if resolved adversely would be, and the tax effect of settling the issue is, proportionately the same for both Members (assuming each otherwise has substantial taxable income);
 
(iii) the Tax Matters Partner determines that the settlement of the issue is fair to both Members and the amount of the tax adjustment attributable to such issue (assuming the then current Aggregate Tax Rate) would be less than $2 million; or
 
(iv) nationally recognized tax counsel acceptable to both Members determines that the settlement is fair to both Members and is one it would recommend to the Company if both Members were owned by the same person and each had substantial taxable income.
 
In all events, the costs incurred by the Tax Matters Partner in performing its duties hereunder shall be borne by the Company in accordance with the Shared Services Agreement.
 
(f) The Tax Matters Partner may request extensions to file any tax return or statement without the written consent of, but shall so inform, the other Member.
 
SECTION 6.09. The provisions of this Agreement regarding the Company's tax returns and Tax Matters Partner shall survive the termination of the Company and the transfer of any Member's interest in the Company and shall remain in effect for the period of time necessary to resolve any and all matters regarding the federal, state, local and foreign taxation of the Company and items of Company income, gain, loss, deduction and credit.
Survival of Provisions.
 
SECTION 6.10. In the event that a Member purchases the Membership Interests of a Selling Member pursuant to Section 10.04, the purchasing Member shall have the right to direct the Tax Matters Partner to make an election under Section 754 of the Code. The purchasing Member shall pay all costs incurred by the Company in connection with such election, including any costs borne by the Company to maintain records required as a result of such election. The purchasing Member, at its option and expense, may maintain on behalf of the Company any records required as a result of such election.
Section 754 Election.
 
SECTION 6.11. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, there is hereby incorporated a qualified income offset provision which complies with Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) and minimum gain chargeback and partner minimum gain chargeback provisions which comply with the requirements of Treasury Regulation Section 1.704-2 and such provisions shall apply to the allocation of Profits and Losses.
Qualified Income Offset, Minimum Gain Chargeback.
 
SECTION 6.12. (a) For purposes of Article VI, Ashland or Marathon, as the case may be, shall be treated as transferring to the Company all of its interest in Subleased Property pursuant to an Ashland Designated Sublease Agreement or a Marathon Designated Sublease Agreement, as if the leasehold interest in such Subleased Property was an Ashland Transferred Asset or a Marathon Transferred Asset.
Tax Treatment of Designated Sublease Agreements.
 
(b) Payments under the Original Lease made by Ashland or Marathon, as the case may be, after the effective date of the Ashland Designated Sublease Agreement or Marathon Designated Sublease Agreement, as the case may be, shall be treated as made by the Company or its subsidiaries, and then immediately reimbursed by Ashland or Marathon, as the case may be.
 
(c) All items of loss, deduction and credit attributable to payments under the Original Lease made by
 
Ashland or Marathon, as the case may be, including payments by the Company or any of its subsidiaries that are charged to Ashland or Marathon by set-off or other means, shall be allocated entirely to the Member incurring such payments.
 
(d) Depreciation and amortization deductions, if any, as well as any deductions or offsets to taxable income or gain, attributable to property described in the Ashland Designated Sublease Agreements or the Marathon Designated Sublease Agreements, as the case may be, shall be allocated entirely to Ashland or Marathon, as the case may be, except to the extent such deductions or offsets are attributable to amounts paid by the Company or any of its subsidiaries and not reimbursed by Ashland or Marathon, as the case may be, either directly or indirectly.
 
SECTION 6.13. Any tax deduction or loss attributable to payments by the Company or any of its subsidiaries of Assumed Liabilities, as described in Schedules 2.3(d) and 3.3(d) to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement, that are reimbursed by a Member either directly or indirectly, shall be allocated entirely to such Member.
Tax Treatment of Reimbursed Liability Payments.
 
SECTION 6.14. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or in any other Transaction Document, any Tax deduction or loss reflected on a Tax return, report or other Tax filing by the Company, attributable to (i) payments made or costs incurred by a Member, (ii) payments made or costs incurred by the Company and reimbursed or to be reimbursed by a Member and (iii) payments made or costs incurred by the Company and not shared among the Members based on their Percentage Interests, shall be allocated among the Members to take into account the amounts paid, incurred, reimbursed or shared by each.
Tax Treatment of Disproportionate Payments.
 
SECTION 6.15. (a) Income, gains, losses, deductions, credits, adjustments, tax preferences and other distributive share items with respect to the Company's interest in LOOP LLC, a tax partnership, for periods beginning on or after the Closing, shall be allocated between the Members in such a manner so that, when such items are included with the same items allocated to Ashland with respect to the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest, each Member is allocated all such items in proportion to its respective Percentage Interest in the Company.
Allocation of Income, Gains, Losses and Other Items from LOOP LLC and LOCAP, Inc.
 
(b) In determining the Capital Account for each Member, (i) Ashland shall be treated as contributing the
 
Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest to the Company, (ii) Profit and Loss shall be treated as including taxable income, gain, loss and distributions arising from Ashland's 4% interest in LOOP LLC and (iii) dividends and distributions that Ashland receives from LOOP LLC or LOCAP, Inc. in respect of the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest and paid to the Company pursuant to Section 7.2(i) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement shall be treated as being received directly by the Company.
 
SECTION 6.16. Each item of income, gain, loss, deduction (excluding deductions for administrative costs incurred by the Company) and credit attributable to the grant to, or the exercise by or on behalf of, an employee or retired employee of the Company of a stock option, stock appreciation right, or other stock-based incentive compensation involving the stock of a Member or an Affiliate of a Member shall be allocated to the Member whose stock or whose Affiliate's stock is involved. Any exercise price paid by or on behalf of the employee or retired employee to the Company shall be paid over to the Member whose stock (or whose Affiliate's stock) is involved. A Member's Capital Account shall be (i) increased by the fair market value of its (or its Affiliate's) stock delivered to or on behalf of an employee or retired employee as aforesaid (without duplication to the extent such stock is first contributed to the Company), (ii) decreased (pursuant to Section 6.01(a)(iii) or (b)(iii)) by the deduction allocated to such Member as aforesaid and (iii) decreased by the amount of the exercise price so paid over by the Company or deemed to be paid over by the Company under principles analogous to those in Treasury Regulation Section 1.83-6(d)(1).
Allocation of Income, Gain, Loss, Deduction and Credits Attributable to Stock-Based Compensation.
 
 
 
SECTION 7.01. The Board of Managers shall keep or cause to be kept such books of account and records with respect to the Company's business as they may deem appropriate. Each Member and its duly authorized representatives shall have the right at any time to examine, or to appoint independent certified public accountants (the fees of which shall be paid by such Member) to examine, the books, records and accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries, their operations and all other matters that such Member may wish to examine, including, without limitation, all documentation relating to actual or proposed transactions with either Member or any Affiliate of either
Books and Records; Examination.
 
Member. The Company, and the Board of Managers, shall not have the right to keep confidential from the Members any information that the Board of Managers would otherwise be permitted to keep confidential from the Members pursuant to Section 18-305(c) of the Delaware Act. The Company's books of account shall be kept using the method of accounting determined by the Board of Managers. The Company Independent Auditors (the "") shall be an independent public accounting firm selected by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b) or Section 8.07(c), as applicable, and shall initially be Price Waterhouse LLP.
Company Independent Auditors
 
SECTION 7.02. (a) (i) The Company shall prepare and send to each Member (at the same time) promptly, but in no event later than noon on the 15
Financial Statements and Reports.
Unaudited Monthly Financial Statement
th
Business Day after the last day of each month, the following unaudited financial statements with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries: a balance sheet, a statement of operations, a statement of cash flows and a statement of changes in capital (collectively, "") as at the end of and for such month.
Unaudited Financial Statements
 
(ii) The Company shall prepare and send to each Member promptly, but in no event later than noon on the 20th Business Day after the last day of each month, an unaudited financial summary booklet containing a breakdown of such operating and financial information by major department or division of the Company and its subsidiaries as at the end of and for such month as either Member shall reasonably request; that each Member shall be provided with the same information at the same time as the other Member.
provided
 
(b) The Company shall prepare and send to each Member (at the same time) promptly, but in no event later than the 30th day after the last day of each Fiscal Quarter, (i) Unaudited Financial Statements as at the end of and for such Fiscal Quarter; (ii) a management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations section prepared in accordance with Rule 303 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act with respect to such Fiscal Quarter; and (iii) an unaudited statement of changes in the Members' capital accounts as at the end of and for such Fiscal Quarter.
Unaudited Quarterly Financial Statements.
 
(c) Within 75 days after the end of each Fiscal Year, the Board of
Audited Annual Financial Statements.
 
Managers shall cause (i) an examination to be made, at the expense of the Company, by the Company Independent Auditors, covering (A) the assets, liabilities and capital of the Company and its subsidiaries, and the Company's and its subsidiaries' operations during such Fiscal Year, (B) an examination of the Distributions Calculation Statement for such Fiscal Year, and (C) all other matters customarily included in such examinations and (ii) to be delivered to each Member (at the same time) a copy of the report of such examination, stating that such examination has been performed in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, together with (1) the following financial statements with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries certified by such accountants as having been prepared in accordance with GAAP: a balance sheet, a statement of operations, a statement of cash flows and a statement of changes in capital as at the end of and for such Fiscal Year (collectively, the "") and (2) a management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations section prepared in accordance with Rule 303 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act with respect to such Fiscal Year. The Company shall prepare the Audited Financial Statements in such manner and form as is necessary to enable Ashland to file such Audited Financial Statements with the Commission in accordance with Item 3-09 of Regulation S-X under the Exchange Act.
Audited Financial Statements
 
(d) (i) The Company shall prepare and send to each Member (at the same time) promptly, but in no event later than the 75th day after the last day of each Fiscal Year, a schedule showing the respective Capital Accounts of the Members based on the Company's estimated taxable income for such Fiscal Year.
Schedule of Members' Capital Accounts.
Preliminary Annual Capital Account Schedule.
 
(ii) Unless otherwise agreed by the Members, within 15 days after the date the Company determines its net taxable income with respect to any Fiscal Year, but in no event later than 7 months after the end of such Fiscal Year, the Board of Managers shall cause (i) an examination to be made, at the expense of the Company, by the Company Independent Auditors, covering (A) the determination of the Company's taxable income with respect to such Fiscal Year and (B) the respective Capital Accounts of the Members based on the Company's taxable income for such Fiscal Year and (ii) to be delivered to each Member (at the same time) a copy of the report of such examination, stating that such examination has been performed in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
Examination.
 
(iii) The Company shall prepare and send to each Member (at the same time) promptly, but in no event later than the 15th day after the date the Company files its federal income tax return with respect to each Fiscal Year, a schedule showing the respective Capital Accounts of the Members based on the Company's actual taxable income for such Fiscal Year.
Final Annual Capital Account Schedule.
 
(e) The Company shall prepare and send to each Member (at the same time) promptly such other financial information as a Member shall from time to time reasonably request.
Other Financial Information.
 
SECTION 7.03. (a) (i) The Company shall notify each Member of any Affiliate Transaction (other than an Affiliate Transaction that is a Significant Shared Service) that the Company or any of its subsidiaries is considering entering into or renewing or extending the term thereof (whether pursuant to contractual provisions thereof or otherwise), which notice shall be given, to the extent reasonably possible, sufficiently in advance of the time that the Company intends to enter into, renew or extend the term of such Affiliate Transaction so as to provide the Members with a reasonable opportunity to examine the documentation related to such Affiliate Transaction.
Notice of Affiliate Transactions; Annual List.
 
(ii) The Company shall notify each Member of any Affiliate Transaction that is a Significant Shared Service that the Company or any of its subsidiaries is considering entering into or renewing or extending the term thereof (whether pursuant to contractual provisions thereof or otherwise), which notice shall be given, to the extent reasonably possible, sufficiently in advance of the time that the Company intends to enter into, renew or extend the term of such Affiliate Transaction so as to provide the Members with a reasonable opportunity to examine the documentation related to such Affiliate Transaction.
 
(b) Within 60 days after the end of each Fiscal Year, the Company shall prepare and distribute to each Member a list setting forth a description of each Affiliate Transaction entered into by the Company or any of its subsidiaries during such Fiscal Year and identifying all of the parties to such Affiliate Transactions; that if two or more Affiliate Transactions either (i) constitute a series of related transactions or agreements or (ii) are substantially the same type of transaction or agreement, the Company need not separately describe each such Affiliate
provided
 
Transaction but instead can describe such related or similar Affiliated Transactions as a group.
 
 
 
SECTION 8.01. The business and affairs of the Company shall be managed by the Members acting through their respective representatives on the Board of Managers (""). The President and the Representatives shall be deemed "managers" of the Company within the meaning of the Delaware Act. Except for such matters as may be delegated to a Member from time to time by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b), and subject to the provisions of Sections 6.07 and 6.08, no Member shall act unilaterally on behalf of the Company or any of its subsidiaries without the approval of the other Member and no Member shall have the power unilaterally to bind the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Managing Members.
Representatives
 
SECTION 8.02. (a) The Members shall exercise their management authority through a board of managers (the "") consisting of (i) the President of the Company, who shall not be deemed a Representative hereunder and who shall not be entitled to vote on any matter coming before the Board of Managers, and (ii) eight Representatives, each of whom shall be entitled to vote, five of whom shall be designated by Marathon and three of whom shall be designated by Ashland. In the event of a Transfer by a Member of its Membership Interests pursuant to Article X, effective at the time of such Transfer, (i) such Member's Representatives shall automatically be removed from the Board of Managers and (ii) the transferee of such Membership Interests shall be permitted to designate the number of Representatives to the Board of Managers as is equal to the number previously designated by the transferor of such Membership Interests. Such transferee shall promptly notify the other Member as to the names of the persons who such transferee has designated as its Representatives on the Board of Managers.
Board of Managers.
Board of Managers
 
(b) Each Representative may be removed and replaced, with or without cause, at any time by the Member designating him or her, but, except as provided in Section 8.02(a), may not be removed or replaced by any other means. A Member who removes one or more of its Representatives from the Board of Managers shall promptly
 
notify the other Member as to the names of its replacement Representatives.
 
SECTION 8.03. The Board of Managers shall be responsible for overseeing the operations of the Company and shall, in particular, have sole jurisdiction to approve each of the following matters:
Responsibility of the Board of Managers.
 
(i) hiring senior executives of the Company, evaluating their performance and planning for their succession;
 
(ii) reviewing and approving Company strategies, Business Plans and Annual Capital Budgets;
 
(iii) reviewing and approving significant external business opportunities for the Company, including acquisitions, mergers and divestitures;
 
(iv) reviewing and approving policies of the Company that maintain high standards in areas of environmental responsibility, employee safety and health, community, government, employee and customer relations;
 
(v) reviewing external and internal audits and management responses thereto; and
 
(vi) establishing compensation and benefits policies for employees of the Company.
 
SECTION 8.04. (a) Except as set forth in Section 8.04(h), all actions of the Board of Managers shall be taken at meetings of the Board of Managers in accordance with this Section 8.04.
Meetings.
 
(b) As soon as practicable after the appointment of the Representatives, the Board of Managers shall meet for the purpose of organization and the transaction of other business.
 
(c) Regular meetings of the Board of Managers shall be held at such times as the Board of Managers shall from time to time determine, but no less frequently than once each Fiscal Quarter; that an annual meeting of the Board of Managers (which annual meeting shall count as one of the regular quarterly meetings) shall be held no later than June 30 of each Fiscal Year.
provided
 
(d) Special meetings of the Board of Managers shall be held whenever called by any Member. Any and all business may be transacted at a special meeting that may be transacted at a regular meeting of the Board of Managers.
 
(e) The Board of Managers may hold its meetings at such place or places as the Board of Managers may from time to time by resolution determine or as shall be designated in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof; however, the Board of Managers shall consider holding meetings from time to time at each of the Member's corporate headquarters and at the operational sites of the Company.
 
(f) Notices of regular meetings of the Board of Managers or of any adjourned meeting shall be given at least two weeks prior to such meeting, unless otherwise agreed by each Member. Notices of special meetings of the Board of Managers shall be mailed by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary to each member of the Board of Managers addressed to him or her at his or her residence or usual place of business, so as to be received at least two Business Days before the day on which such meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to him or her by telegraph, cable, facsimile or other form of recorded communication or be delivered personally, by overnight courier or by telephone so as to be received not later than two Business Days before the day on which such meeting is to be held. Such notice shall include the purpose, time and place of such meeting and shall set forth in reasonable detail the matters to be considered at such meeting. However, notice of any such meeting need not be given to any member of the Board of Managers if such notice is waived by him or her in writing or by telegraph, cable, facsimile or other form of recorded communication, whether before or after such meeting shall be held, or if he or she shall be present at such meeting.
 
(g) The members of the Board of Managers may participate in a meeting of the Board of Managers by means of video or telephonic conferencing or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Action by Communication Equipment.
 
(h) Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Managers may be taken without a meeting if all the Representatives consent thereto in writing and such writing is filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board of Managers.
Unanimous Action by Written Consent.
 
(i) Meetings of the Board of Managers shall be presided over by a chair, who will be a member of the Board of Managers selected by a majority of the Board of Managers. The Secretary of the Company or, in the case of his or her absence, any person whom the person presiding over the meeting shall appoint, shall act as secretary of such meeting and keep the minutes thereof.
Organization.
 
SECTION 8.05. Unless the Members otherwise agree, no person shall be entitled to any compensation from the Company in connection with his or her services as a Representative.
Compensation.
 
SECTION 8.06. (a) Subject to Section 14.01(e) of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement and Sections 14.01 and 14.05 and Section 5 of Schedule 8.14, at all meetings of the Board of Managers, the quorum required for the transaction of any business that constitutes a Super Majority Decision shall be the presence, either in person or by proxy, of (i) at least one Representative of each Member and (ii) a majority of all the Representatives on the Board of Managers (which may include the Representatives referred to in the preceding clause (i)).
Quorum.
Quorum for Super Majority Decisions.
 
(b) Subject to Sections 14.01 and 14.05 and Section 5 of Schedule 8.14, at all meetings of the Board of Managers, the quorum required for the transaction of any business that does not constitute a Super Majority Decision shall be (i) in the case of all matters that were described in the notice in reasonable detail for such meeting delivered to the members of the Board of Managers pursuant to Section 8.04(f), the presence, either in person or by proxy, of a majority of all the Representatives on the Board of Managers and (ii) in the case of all matters that were not described in the notice in reasonable detail for such meeting delivered to the members of the Board of Managers pursuant to Section 8.04(f), the presence, either in person or by proxy, of (A) at least one Representative of each Member and (B) a majority of all the Representatives on the Board of Managers (which may include the Representatives referred to in the preceding clause A)).
Quorum for Other Decisions.
 
(c) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to schedule the time and place of each meeting of the Board of Managers so as to ensure that a quorum will be present at each such meeting and that at least one Representative of each Member will be present at each such meeting. In the absence of a quorum at any such meeting or any adjournment or adjournments thereof, a
Rescheduled Meetings.
 
majority in voting interest of those present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereat may reschedule such meeting from time to time until the Representatives requisite for a quorum, as aforesaid, be present in person or by proxy. At any such rescheduled meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
 
SECTION 8.07. (a) Each Representative shall be entitled to cast one vote on all matters coming before the Board of Managers. In exercising their voting rights under this Agreement, the Representatives may act by proxy.
Voting.
General.
 
(b) Subject to Section 14.01(e) of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement and Sections 14.01 and 14.05 and Section 5 of Schedule 8.14, all Super Majority Decisions to be decided by the Board of Managers shall be approved by the unanimous affirmative vote of the votes cast by the Representatives who are present, either in person or by proxy, at a duly called meeting of the Board of Managers at which a quorum is present. The parties acknowledge and agree that all references in this Agreement, any other Transaction Document and any appendices, exhibits or schedules hereto or thereto to any determination, decision, approval or other form of authorization by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b) shall be deemed to mean that such determination, decision, approval or other form of authorization shall constitute a Super Majority Decision which requires the approval of the Board of Managers in accordance with this Section 8.07(b).
Super Majority Decisions.
 
(c) Subject to Sections 14.01 and 14.05 and Section 5 of Schedule 8.14, all matters other than Super Majority Decisions to be decided by the Board of Managers shall be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by the Representatives who are present, either in person or by proxy, at a duly called meeting of the Board of Managers at which a quorum is present, unless the vote of a greater number of Representatives is required by Applicable Law or this Agreement.
Other Decisions.
 
SECTION 8.08. Subject to the provisions of Section 8.07(b), each of the following matters, and only the following matters, shall constitute a "" which requires the approval of the Board of Managers pursuant to Section 8.07(b):
Matters Constituting Super Majority Decisions.
Super Majority Decision
 
(a) (i) the purchase or investment by the Company or any of its subsidiaries of or in any assets or securities, or any group of assets or securities, that have an aggregate purchase price or cost of more than $20 million, if the purpose or effect of such purchase or investment is to enable the Company to enter into a line of business other than (A) the Company's Business as such Business is conducted on the Closing Date or (B) any other line of business that is approved after the Closing Date by the Board of Managers as a Super Majority Decision under this Section 8.08(a)(i) pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b), provided that any such purchase or investment by the Company or any of its subsidiaries shall not require a Super Majority Decision under this Section 8.08(a) if and to the extent such purchase or investment is being made to enable the Company to enter into the Bulk Motor Oil Business, the Packaged Motor Oil Business, the Private Label Packaged Motor Oil Business and/or the Quick Lube Business and, at the time of such purchase or investment, (1) the Company and its subsidiaries are permitted to engage in such business under Section 14.03(b) of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement and (2) Ashland and its Affiliates shall own (beneficially or otherwise) 20% or more of the Valvoline Business (it being understood and agreed that this proviso shall not limit or constitute an exception to any other provision of Section 8.08); and
 
(ii) the determination of whether any new line of business approved by the Board of Managers as a Super Majority Decision under Section 8.08(a)(i) should constitute a "Competitive Business" for purposes of Section 14.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement;
 
(b) (i) any reorganization, merger, consolidation or similar transaction between the Company and any person (other than a direct or indirect Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company) or any sale or lease of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to any person (other than a direct or indirect Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company);
 
(ii) any (A) reorganization, merger, consolidation or similar transaction or series of transactions between any of the Company's subsidiaries and any person (other than the Company or a direct or indirect Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company) or (B) sale or lease of all or substantially all of any of the
 
Company's subsidiaries' assets to any person (other than the Company or a direct or indirect Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company) which in either case involves an aggregate consideration of over $50,000,000;
 
c) the admission of a new Member (other than as a result of a Transfer of an existing Member's Membership Interests pursuant to Article X) or the issuance of any additional Membership Interests or other equity interests to any person, including any existing Member;
 
(d) except as expressly provided in Sections 4.01(c), 4.02(a) and 4.02(b), the acceptance or requirement of any additional capital contributions to the Company by either Member;
 
(e) the initial hiring of the following officers of the Company: the President; the Executive Vice President; the officers principally in charge of (i) refining, (ii) wholesale and branded marketing, (iii) retail marketing (two initially), (iv) supply and transportation and (v) environmental health and safety and human resources; the Senior Vice President-Finance and Commercial Services of the Company; and the general counsel of the Company;
 
(f) (i) the approval of Acquisition Expenditures, Capital Expenditures and such other expenditures of the type to be included in the Annual Capital Budget for any Fiscal Year (other than (A) Ordinary Course Lease Expenses, (B) up to $100 million in the aggregate for all periods in Capital Expenditures of the Company and its subsidiaries directly associated with the Garyville Propylene Upgrade Project, (C) Member-Funded Capital Expenditures, (D) Member-Indemnified Expenditures and (E) Acquisition Expenditures or Capital Expenditures of the Company and its subsidiaries directly associated with Permitted Capital Projects/Acquisitions that are funded with Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness) that when taken together with (x) the other expenditures already approved as part of the Annual Capital Budget for such Fiscal Year and (y) all other expenditures already made in such Fiscal Year, would reasonably be expected to exceed the Normal Annual Capital Budget Amount for such Fiscal Year; and
 
(ii) the incurrence of rentals or operating leases which result in aggregate Ordinary Course Lease Expenses (other than Ordinary Course Lease Expenses
 
incurred under the Bareboat Charters) for any Fiscal Year that exceed $80 million; , , in the event the Company or one of its subsidiaries shall make any acquisition or divestiture, the Members shall negotiate in good faith to adjust the dollar amount set forth in this Section 8.08(f)(ii) to take into account the effect of such acquisition or divestiture;
provided
however
 
(g) (i) except for any acquisition or capital project related to the Bulk Motor Oil Business, the Packaged Motor Oil Business, the Private Label Motor Oil Business and/or the Quick Lube Business, any acquisition, divestiture or individual capital project (other than (i) Ordinary Course Lease Expenses, (ii) up to $100 million in the aggregate for all periods in Capital Expenditures of the Company and its subsidiaries directly associated with the Garyville Propylene Upgrade Project, (iii) Member-Funded Capital Expenditures, (iv) Member-Funded Indemnified Expenditures and (v) Acquisition Expenditures or Capital Expenditures of the Company and its subsidiaries directly associated with Permitted Capital Projects/Acquisitions that are funded with Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness) where the liability or consideration involved is more than $50 million in the aggregate (including contingent liabilities only to the extent required to be reflected on the balance sheet of the Company in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Number 5 (or any successor or superseding provision of Current GAAP));
 
(ii) any acquisitions or individual capital projects related to the Bulk Motor Oil Business, the Packaged Motor Oil Business, the Private Label Motor Oil Business and/or the Quick Lube Business during any Fiscal Year where the liability or consideration involved is more than $50 million in the aggregate in such Fiscal Year (including contingent liabilities only to the extent required to be reflected on the balance sheet of the Company in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Number 5 (or any successor or superseding provision of Current GAAP)); that nothing in this Section 8.08(g)(ii) shall be deemed or interpreted to permit the Company or any of its subsidiaries to engage in any of such businesses except as and to the extent expressly permitted under Section 14.03 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement;
provided
 
(iii) for the avoidance of doubt, acquisitions or individual capital projects related to the Maralube
 
Express Business shall be subject to clause (i) of this Section 8.08(g) and not clause (ii) of this Section 8.08(g);
 
(h) the initiation or settlement of any action, suit, claim or proceeding involving (i) an amount in excess of $50 million (with respect to initiation) or $25 million (with respect to settlement), (ii) material non-monetary relief (including, without limitation, entering into any consent decree that has or could reasonably be expected to (A) impose any material obligation on Ashland or any of its Affiliates or the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (B) have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of Ashland or any of its Affiliates or the Company or any of its subsidiaries) or (iii) the initiation or settlement of any criminal action, suit, claim or proceeding (other than a misdemeanor) if such criminal action, suit or proceeding has or could reasonably be expected to (A) impose any material obligation on Ashland or any of its Affiliates or (B) have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of Ashland or any of its Affiliates;
 
(i) any change in the Company Independent Auditors unless the new firm is one of the "Big Six" accounting firms (or any successor thereto) or a firm of comparable stature in Ashland's opinion;
 
(j) any modification, alteration, amendment or termination of any Transaction Document to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party and all Members are not a party;
 
(k) (i) in the case of any Affiliate Transaction that is not a Crude Oil Purchase, a Significant Shared Service or a Designated Sublease Agreement, (A) any Affiliate Transaction (other than the Affiliate Transactions listed on Schedule 8.08(k)(i)(A) (the "")), (B) any
Closing Date Affiliate Transactions
 
material amendment to or change in the terms or provisions of any Affiliate Transaction that was either a Closing Date Affiliate Transaction or previously approved by the Board of Managers pursuant to Section 8.08(k)(i)(A) (it being understood that a renewal or extension of the term of an Affiliate Transaction pursuant to contractual provisions that were previously approved by the Board of Managers pursuant to this Section 8.08(k)(i) or that were included in a Closing Date Affiliate Transaction on the Closing Date shall be deemed for purposes of this Agreement not to constitute a new Affiliate Transaction or a material amendment to or change in an Affiliate Transaction) or (C) any amendment or change in the terms or provisions of any agreement or transaction between the Company or any of its subsidiaries and any Member or any Affiliate of any Member which causes such agreement or transaction to become an Affiliate Transaction;
 
(ii) in the case of Crude Oil Purchases, the approval of such Crude Oil Purchases in accordance with Section 8.12(a);
 
(iii) in the case of any Significant Shared Service, (A) any agreement or transaction constituting a Significant Shared Service (other than the specific Significant Shared Services identified and described in Schedule 10.2(e) to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement), (B) any material amendment to or change in the terms and provisions of any Significant Shared Service identified and described in Schedule 10.2(e) to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement or thereafter approved by the Board of Managers in accordance with this Section 8.08(k)(iii), (C) subject to the provisions of Section 8.11(b) and except as expressly provided in Section 8.12(b), any cancelation or failure by the Company or any of its subsidiaries to renew any Significant Shared Service provided by Ashland or any Affiliate of Ashland to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or provided by the Company or any of its subsidiaries to Ashland or any Affiliate of Ashland and (D) the periodic review and approval of Significant Shared Services in accordance with Section 8.12(b); and
 
(iv) any material amendment to or change in the terms or provisions of, cancelation, termination or failure to renew, any Designated Sublease Agreement or any election by the Company to refuse or reject the
 
contribution of any Subleased Property to the Company or any of its subsidiaries;
 
(l) the commencement of a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or the consent to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, or the consent to the appointment of or the taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee or sequestrator (or similar official) of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or for any substantial part of the Company's or any of its subsidiaries' property, or the making of any general assignment for the benefit of creditors;
 
(m) (i) the modification, alteration or amendment of the amount, timing, frequency or method of calculation of distributions to the Members from that provided in Article V or (ii) an adjustment to the amount of Distributable Cash pursuant to clause (g) of the definition of "Distributable Cash" in Section 1.01;
 
(n) (i) the modification, alteration or amendment of the Company Leverage Policy, or (ii) the approval of any matter which the Company Leverage Policy provides is to be approved by the Board of Managers as a Super Majority Decision;
 
(o) (i) the approval of any distribution by the Company to the Members of any assets in kind, (ii) the approval of any distribution by the Company to the Members of cash and property in kind on a non-pro rata basis, and (iii) the determination of the value assigned to such assets in kind;
 
(p) each Critical Decision or material amendment thereto made on or prior to the Critical Decision Termination Date for such Critical Decision; and
 
(q) the delegation to a Member of the power to unilaterally bind the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to any matter.
 
SECTION 8.09. (a) In Fiscal Year 1999 and in each Fiscal Year thereafter, the Executive Officers of the Company shall timely prepare or cause to be prepared a draft capital budget (the "") for such Fiscal Year, which shall set forth in reasonable line item detail the proposed Acquisition Expenditures, Capital Expenditures and the Ordinary Course Lease Expenditures of the Company and its
Annual Capital Budget.
Draft Annual Capital Budget
 
subsidiaries for such Fiscal Year, including all Ordinary Course Lease Expenditures and all Capital Expenditures of the Company and its subsidiaries directly associated with the Garyville Propylene Upgrade Project. In addition, to the extent that information can reasonably be obtained on the nature of assets rented or financed by operating leases, such information shall be presented along with the Annual Capital Budget. Copies of the Draft Annual Capital Budget shall be provided to each Member (at the same time) and to the Board of Managers. No later than the last regular meeting of the Board of Managers for a Fiscal Year, the Executive Officers shall present to the Board of Managers the Draft Annual Capital Budget for the following Fiscal Year for the Board of Managers' review, consideration and approval, with such additions, deletions and changes thereto as the Board of Managers shall deem necessary. Upon its approval by the Board of Managers (and taking into account any additions, deletions or other changes deemed necessary by the Board of Managers) the Draft Annual Capital Budget for a Fiscal Year shall become the "" for such Fiscal Year.
Annual Capital Budget
 
(b) If the Board of Managers shall fail to approve an Annual Capital Budget for any Fiscal Year, the total expenditures provided for in the Annual Capital Budget for such Fiscal Year shall be in an amount equal to the Normal Annual Capital Budget Amount for such Fiscal Year.
 
(c) No later than August 30 of each Fiscal Year, the Board of Managers shall review the Annual Capital Budget for such Fiscal Year and shall make such additions, deletions and changes thereto as the Board of Managers shall deem necessary.
 
SECTION 8.10. In Fiscal Year 1999 and in each Fiscal Year thereafter, the Executive Officers of the Company shall timely prepare or cause to be prepared a draft business plan (the "") for the next three Fiscal Years. Copies of the Draft Business Plan shall be provided to each Member (at the same time) and to the Board of Managers. No later than the last regular meeting of the Board of Managers for a Fiscal Year, the Executive Officers shall present to the Board of Managers the Business Plan for their review, consideration and approval, with such additions, deletions and changes thereto as the Board of Managers shall deem necessary. Upon its approval by the Board of Managers (and taking into account any such additions, deletions or other changes deemed necessary by the Board of Managers), the Draft Business Plan for a Fiscal Year shall become the "Business Plan" for such Fiscal Year.
Business Plan.
Draft Business Plan
 
SECTION 8.11. (a) The Company and its subsidiaries shall only be permitted to enter into or renew or extend the term thereof (whether pursuant to contractual provisions thereof or otherwise) an agreement or a transaction with a Member or an Affiliate of a Member (which, solely for purposes of this Section 8.11, shall be deemed to include any entity more than 10% of the voting stock or other ownership interests of, or economic interest in, which is owned by a Member (other than the Company or any of its subsidiaries)) on the same terms or on terms no less favorable to the Company or such subsidiary than could be obtained from a third party on an arm's-length basis (an "").
Requirements as to Affiliate Transactions.
Arm's-Length Transaction
 
(b) (i) If (A) the Company or any subsidiary of the Company enters into, renews or extends the term of (pursuant to contractual provisions thereof that were previously approved by the Board of Managers or otherwise) or materially amends or changes the terms or provisions of, any agreement or transaction between the Company or any of its subsidiaries and any Member or any Affiliate of any Member (a "") or proposes to do any of the foregoing and (ii) not later than 90 days after receiving written notice thereof from the Company pursuant to Section 7.03 or otherwise (which notice describes the material terms and conditions of such transaction in reasonable detail), the Member that is not (or whose Affiliate is not) a party to such Section 8.11(b) Affiliate Transaction (the "") notifies the Company and the Member that is (or whose Affiliate is) a party to such Section 8.11(b) Affiliate Transaction (the "") in writing that the Non-Contracting Member believes in good faith that either such Affiliate Transaction is not an Arm's-Length Transaction or that the quality of the service being provided or to be provided by the Contracting Member is inferior to that which the Company and its subsidiaries could otherwise obtain on comparable terms and conditions, then the Company shall promptly (and, in any event within 30 days) provide the Non-Contracting Member with a reasonably detailed explanation of the basis for the Company's determination that such new, renewed or extended Affiliate Transaction is an Arm's-Length Transaction or the quality of the service being provided or to be provided to the Company and its subsidiaries is not inferior.
Section 8.11(b) Affiliate Transaction
Non-Contracting Member
Contracting Member
 
(ii) If following receipt of such evidence, the Non-Contracting Member is not reasonably satisfied that
 
such Affiliate Transaction is an Arm's-Length Transaction or the quality of the service being provided or to be provided to the Company and its subsidiaries is not inferior, then, at the written request of the Non-Contracting Member (such written request being an ""), the Company shall (A) modify the terms of such Affiliate Transaction so that it becomes an Arm's-Length Transaction, (B) if the Company had given the Members written notice pursuant to Section 7.03(a) prior to entering into, renewing or extending such Affiliate Transaction, not enter into, renew or extend such Affiliate Transaction or (C) if the Company had given the Members written notice pursuant to Section 7.03(a) prior to entering into, renewing or extending such Affiliate Transaction, enter into, renew or extend such Affiliate Transaction in which event the determination of whether such Affiliate Transaction is an Arm's Length Transaction and/or whether the quality of the service being provided is inferior shall be in accordance with the Dispute Resolution Procedures set forth in Article XIII or (D) if the Company shall not have given the Members written notice pursuant to Section 7.03(a) prior to entering into, renewing or extending such Affiliate Transaction, commence the dispute resolution procedures set forth in Article XIII.
Affiliate Transaction Dispute Notice
 
(iii) For purposes of Article XIII, a Non-Contracting Member's delivery of an Affiliate Transaction Dispute Notice to the Company shall constitute delivery of a Dispute Notice thereunder, and the Company shall be required to deliver a Response to the Non-Contracting Member within 30 days thereafter. If it is finally determined pursuant to such Dispute Resolution Procedures that such Affiliate Transaction is an Arm's-Length Transaction and, if disputed, that the quality of service being so provided is not inferior, then the Company shall be permitted to enter into, renew or extend such Affiliate Transaction. If it is finally determined pursuant to such Dispute Resolution Procedures that such Affiliate Transaction is not an Arm's-Length Transaction or that the quality of service being so provided is inferior, then the Company shall either modify the terms of such Affiliate Transaction so that it becomes an Arm's-Length Transaction and, if disputed, with an adequate level of quality of service or not enter into, renew or extend such Affiliate Transaction. In the event that such Affiliate Transaction has already been entered into, renewed or extended, then (A) the Company and the
 
Contracting Member shall make such modifications to the terms of such Affiliate Transaction as are necessary so that such Affiliate Transaction becomes an Arm's-Length Transaction and, if disputed, with an adequate level of quality of service and (B) the Contracting Member shall pay the Company an amount equal to the difference between (I) the costs incurred by the Company under such Affiliate Transaction since the time of such entering into, renewal or extension and (II) the costs that the Company would have incurred under such Affiliate Transaction during such time period had such Affiliate Transaction been an Arm's-Length Transaction and, if disputed, with an adequate level of quality of service at the time of such initial agreement, renewal or extension.
 
SECTION 8.12. (a) (i) Not less than 30 days prior to the regular meeting of the Board of Managers during the fourth Fiscal Quarter of each Fiscal Year (or, if no regular meeting of the Board of Managers is scheduled during such Fiscal Quarter, at a special meeting of the Board of Managers during such Fiscal Quarter), the Company shall submit to the Board of Managers a reasonably detailed description of any proposed transactions or agreements related to crude oil purchases by the Company and its subsidiaries from Marathon or any Affiliate of Marathon that are intended to remain in effect or to be put into effect during such next Fiscal Year (collectively, the ""). Following such submission, the Company shall provide the Board of Managers promptly with such information with respect to such Marathon Crude Oil Purchase Program and the Company's other proposed crude oil purchases and policies for such next Fiscal Year as any Representative shall reasonably request. At each such regular or special meeting during the fourth Fiscal Quarter of each Fiscal Year, the Board of Managers shall review such Marathon Crude Oil Purchase Program. During such next Fiscal Year, the Company and its subsidiaries shall be permitted to purchase crude oil from Marathon or any Affiliate of Marathon only on the terms and conditions of the proposed transactions and agreements submitted to and approved by the Board of Managers at such regular or special meeting pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b) (the ""). Any purchase (or group of related purchases) of crude oil by the Company or any of its subsidiaries from Marathon or any Affiliate of Marathon during such Fiscal Year that is an Affiliate Transaction for purposes of Section 8.08(k) and is not made under or in accordance with
Review of Certain Affiliate Transactions Related to Crude Oil Purchases and Shared Services.
Marathon Crude Oil Purchase Program
Approved Marathon Crude Oil Purchase Program
 
the Approved Marathon Crude Oil Purchase Program and any material amendment to or change in the Approved Marathon Crude Oil Purchase Program during such Fiscal Year shall be made only with the prior approval of the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b).
 
(ii) The Company shall prepare and send to each Member (at the same time) promptly, but in no event later than the 30th day after the last day of each Fiscal Quarter, (A) a summary of all Crude Oil Purchases during such Fiscal Quarter, (B) a description of any amendments to, changes in or deviations from the Approved Marathon Crude Oil Purchase Program in effect during such Fiscal Quarter, (C) a description of any then known proposed amendments to, changes in or deviations from the Approved Marathon Crude Oil Purchase Program in effect during the remaining balance of the Fiscal Year and (D) such other information with respect to purchases of crude oil by the Company and its subsidiaries as either Member shall reasonably request.
 
(b)(i) All administrative services that Marathon, Ashland and each of their respective Affiliates provide to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, and that the Company and its subsidiaries provide to Marathon, Ashland or any of their respective Affiliates, shall be pursuant to the Shared Services Agreement. To the extent that there is a conflict between the Shared Services Agreement, Schedule 10.2(e) to the Marathon Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter or Schedule 10.2(e) to the Ashland Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter, on the one hand, and this Agreement, on the other hand, this Agreement shall control.
 
(ii) Not less than 90 days prior to each of the annual meetings of the Board of Managers held in 2000, 2003 and every three years thereafter, the Company shall submit to the Board of Managers the provisions of the Shared Services Agreement that relate to each Significant Shared Service then in effect or that is proposed to be put into effect. Following such submission, the Company shall provide the Board of Managers promptly with such information with respect to such Significant Shared Services and with respect to any other Shared Services then being provided or proposed to be provided as any Representative shall reasonably request. At each such annual meeting, unless all the Representatives otherwise agree, the Board of Managers shall review each such Significant
 
Shared Service and shall determine pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b) whether such Significant Shared Service should be continued (or, in the case of any proposed Significant Shared Service, put into effect). Unless the Board of Managers approves pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b) the continuation or effectiveness of a Significant Shared Service, the Shared Service Agreement to the extent it relates to such Significant Shared Service shall be terminated effective 90 days after such annual meeting or at such later date as the Board of Managers shall specify pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b) and the Company shall be deemed at the time of such annual meeting to have given notice to the Member providing or receiving (or whose Affiliate is providing or receiving) such Significant Shared Service that the Company is terminating the Shared Service Agreement with respect to such Significant Shared Service.
 
SECTION 8.13. Within 30 days following the date on which the United States Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics for all Urban Areas publishes the Price Index for the month of September of each Fiscal Year commencing September, 1998, the Company shall determine whether the Average Annual Level for the immediately preceding twelve-month period exceeds the Base Level. If the Company determines that the Average Annual Level for such twelve-month period exceeds the Base Level, then the Company shall increase or decrease each of the dollar amounts set forth in this Agreement (other than the $348 million and $346 million amounts set forth in the definition of Adjusted DD&A, the $657 million, $600 million, $80 million, $20 million and $12.4 million amounts set forth in the definition of Adjusted EBITDA, the $240 million amount set forth in the definition of "Normal Annual Capital Budget Amount" in Section 1.01, the $100 million amount set forth in Section 8.08(f)(i) and any dollar amount set forth in any Appendix, Exhibit or Schedule to this Agreement, including Schedule 8.14) (each dollar amount that is adjusted pursuant to this Section 8.13 being an ""), including, without limitation, the following amounts, to an amount calculated by multiplying the relevant Adjustable Amount by a fraction whose numerator is the Average Annual Level for such twelve-month period and whose denominator is the Base Level: (i) the $100,000, $2 million and $25 million amounts set forth in the definition of "Affiliate Transaction" and the $2 million amount set forth in the definition of "Significant Shared Service" in each case in Section 1.01; (ii) the $2 million amount set forth in Section 6.06(c); (iii) the $2 million amounts set forth
Adjustable Amounts.
Adjustable Amount
 
in Sections 6.08(b), (d) and (e); (iv) the $20 million amount set forth in Section 8.08(a)(i); (v) the $80 million amount set forth on Section 8.08(f)(ii) (or such other dollar amount as shall be agreed pursuant to the proviso to Section 8.08(f)(ii)); (vi) the $50 million amount set forth in Section 8.08(g); (vii) the $50 million and $25 million amounts set forth in Section 8.08(h)(i); and (viii) each $7.5 million amount set forth in Section 14.01(a); that in no event shall any Adjustable Amount be decreased below the initial amount thereof set forth herein. Within five Business Days after making such determinations, the Company shall distribute to each Member a notice setting forth: (A) the amount by which the Average Annual Level for such Fiscal Year exceeded the Base Level and (B) the calculations of any adjustments made to the Adjustable Amounts pursuant to this Section 8.13. Any adjustment made to the Adjustable Amounts pursuant to this Section 8.13 shall be effective as of January 1st of the next Fiscal Year.
provided
 
SECTION 8.14. The leverage policy for the Company shall be the leverage policy set forth on Schedule 8.14, with such modifications, alterations or amendments thereto as the Board of Managers shall from time to time approve pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b) (such leverage policy, as so modified, altered or amended, is referred to herein as the "").
Company Leverage Policy.
Company Leverage Policy
 
SECTION 8.15. . The Company's Senior Vice President-Finance and Commercial Services, Vice President-Finance and Controller and Treasurer (or Treasury Manager) shall constitute an Investment Policy Committee of the Company and shall establish investment guidelines for the Company and its subsidiaries (such investment guidelines, as they may be modified, altered or amended by such Investment Policy Committee from time to time, are referred to herein as the ""). The initial Company Investment Guidelines is set forth on Schedule 8.15. The Company and its subsidiaries shall only make investments that are permitted under the Company Investment Guidelines at the time of such investments. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries shall invest all Surplus Cash (after meeting daily cash requirements) in accordance with the Company Investment Guidelines.
Company's Investment Guidelines
Company Investment Guidelines
 
SECTION 8.16. The Company and its subsidiaries shall not enter into any operating lease (as determined in accordance with Applicable GAAP) if the purpose or intent of entering into
Requirements as to Operating Leases.
 
such operating lease is to circumvent the Company Leverage Policy or the super majority voting requirement for Capital Expenditures of the Company set forth in Section 8.08(f). The lease by the Company and its subsidiaries of vehicles, railcars and computers in accordance with the historical practices of the Ashland Business and the Marathon Business shall not be deemed to violate this Section 8.16, provided, for the avoidance of doubt, that all Ordinary Course Lease Expenses related to any such leases shall be considered Ordinary Course Lease Expenses for the purposes of Section 8.08(f)(ii).
 
SECTION 8.17. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the Company shall not, and shall cause its subsidiaries not to (a) modify, alter or amend the Company Investment Guidelines, (b) accelerate the payment of the Company's and its subsidiaries' accounts payable, (c) delay the collection of the Company's and its subsidiaries' accounts receivable or (d) take any other action, if the purpose or intent of such action is to reduce the amount of Distributable Cash in a manner that is inconsistent with the intent of the Members to maximize the amount of Distributable Cash distributions to the Members.
Limitations on Actions Relating to the Calculation of Distributable Cash.
 
SECTION 8.18. Persons dealing with the Company are entitled to rely conclusively upon the power and authority of the Board of Managers herein set forth. Except as provided in this Agreement, neither the President, nor a Representative, nor any Member shall have any authority to bind the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Reliance by Third Parties.
 
SECTION 8.19. (a) Until the Critical Decision is made regarding the location of the Company's retail operations' headquarters, the Company's retail operations' business shall have headquarters in both Enon, Ohio and Lexington, Kentucky.
Integration of Retail Operations.
 
(b) (i) The Company shall make a formal recommendation to the Board of Managers with respect to each Critical Decision not later than the ten-month anniversary of the Closing Date. Following receipt of a formal recommendation with respect to any Critical Decision, Marathon and Ashland shall negotiate in good faith to reach an agreement with respect to such Critical Decision not later than the first anniversary of the Closing Date.
 
(ii) Each formal recommendation with respect to any Critical Decision shall be accompanied by a report on the business and economic analyses used by the Company to arrive at such recommendation, including but not limited to, a reasonably detailed description of the risks and benefits of the recommended decision and the anticipated impact of the recommended decision on the Speedway and SuperAmerica brand images and business models.
 
(iii) Following receipt of any formal recommendation with respect to any Critical Decision, each Member may request, and the Company shall promptly provide to both Members, such additional information and analyses (including studies by outside consultants) as such Member may reasonably request; , , any additional information request shall not extend the Critical Decision Termination Date.
provided
however
 
(c) If any Primary Critical Decision shall not have been agreed by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b) prior to the first anniversary of the Closing Date, the Critical Decision Termination Date with respect to such Primary Critical Decision shall be automatically, and without any further action required by either Member, the Company or the Board of Managers, extended until the fifteen-month anniversary of the Closing Date. During the period of such extension, the Company shall provide promptly to each Member such additional information or analyses (including studies by outside consultants) as either Member shall reasonably request. Not later than 30 days prior to the fifteen-month anniversary of the Closing Date, the Company shall, if requested by either Member, again make a formal recommendation to the Board of Managers with respect to such Primary Critical Decision. Such formal recommendation shall include a report on the supporting business and economic analyses described in Section 8.19(b)(ii). Any request for additional information shall not extend the Critical Decision Termination Date.
 
(d) Until such time as the implementation of any Critical Decision shall have been completed in all material respects, the President of the Company shall report to the Board of Managers at each regular meeting of the Board of Managers on the implementation of such Critical Decision and on any material modifications or changes to such Critical Decision.
 
(e) To the extent there is any conflict between the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the terms and provisions of the Retail Integration Protocol, the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall control.
 
 
 
SECTION 9.01. (a) The executive officers of the Company (the "") shall consist solely of: a President; an Executive Vice President; an officer principally in charge of refining; an officer principally in charge of wholesale and branded marketing; the officer or officers (two initially) principally in charge of retail marketing; an officer principally in charge of supply and transportation; an officer who shall be the Senior Vice President-Finance and Commercial Services of the Company; and an officer who shall be the general counsel of the Company; , , that Marathon and Ashland may make additions or deletions to the positions which shall be considered executive officers of the Company by mutual agreement. Schedule C sets forth a list of (i) the persons who Marathon and Ashland have chosen to serve initially as the Executive Officers of the Company, (ii) the executive office for which each such person is to serve and (iii) whether each such person was designated by Marathon or Ashland. Marathon and Ashland agree that the composition of the initial Executive Officers is intended to reflect their respective Percentage Interests in the Company. Accordingly, if any person identified on Schedule C is for any reason unable or unwilling to serve as an Executive Officer at the Closing Date, the Member who designated such person shall have the right to designate a substitute person, subject to the right of the other Member to consent to such substitute nominee (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld). Marathon and Ashland shall cause their respective Representatives to promptly approve the appointment of each person listed on Schedule C to the related executive office position listed on Schedule C.
Election, Appointment and Term of Office.
Executive Officers
provided
however
 
(b) Except as otherwise determined by the Board of Managers, each Executive Officer shall hold office until his or her death or until his or her earlier resignation or removal in the manner hereinafter provided. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Executive Officers shall have such powers and duties in the management of the Company as generally pertain to their respective offices as if the Company were a corporation governed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
 
(c) The Board of Managers may elect or appoint such other officers to assist and report to the Executive Officers as it deems necessary. Subject to the preceding sentence, each such officer shall have such authority and shall perform such duties as may be provided herein or as the Board of Managers may prescribe. The Board of Managers may delegate to any Executive Officer the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers.
 
(d) Except as otherwise determined by the Board of Managers, if additional officers are elected or appointed during the year pursuant to Section 9.01(c), each such officer shall hold office until his or her death or until his or her earlier resignation or removal in the manner hereinafter provided.
 
SECTION 9.02. (a) Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the President or the Secretary of the Company, and such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if the time when it shall become effective shall not be specified therein, when accepted by action of the Board of Managers. Except as aforesaid, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation, Removal and Vacancies.
 
(b) All officers and agents elected or appointed by the Board of Managers shall be subject to removal at any time by the Board of Managers with or without cause.
 
(c) Vacancies in all Executive Officer positions may only be filled by the majority vote of the Representatives on the Board of Managers. In each instance where a vacant Executive Officer position is to be filled, Marathon, after consultation with the Company, shall first send Ashland a notice which discloses the name and details of the candidate for the vacant Executive Officer position that the Representatives of Marathon will nominate and vote in favor of for such position. Ashland shall thereafter have the right, by notice to the Company and Marathon within ten days after receipt of such notice from Marathon, to veto such candidate. Each candidate that Marathon proposes for a vacant Executive Officer position shall be a bona fide candidate who is willing and able to serve and who Marathon in good faith believes is qualified to fill such vacant Executive Officer position (a ""). In the event Ashland exercises its veto with respect to a Qualified Candidate, the vacancy will be filled by the majority vote of the Representatives on the Board of Managers.
Qualified Candidate
 
SECTION 9.03. . (a) The President of the Company, who shall be a non-voting member of the Board of Managers, shall be in charge of the day-to-day operations of the Company and shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Managers and shall perform such other duties and exercise such powers, as may from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Managers.
Duties and Functions of Executive Officers
President.
 
(b) The Executive Vice President of the Company initially shall report to the President and be the officer principally in charge of all supply, refining, marketing and transportation operations of the Company other than the Company's retail operations.
Executive Vice President.
 
(c) The Executive Officers of the Company other than the President and the Executive Vice President shall perform such duties and exercise such powers, as may from time to time be prescribed by the President or the Board of Managers.
Other Executive Officers.
 
 
 
SECTION 10.01. (a) Except as expressly provided by this Article X, neither Member shall Transfer all or any part of its Membership Interests to any person without first obtaining the written approval of the other Member, which approval may be granted or withheld in its sole discretion. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, no Transfer by a Member of its Membership Interests to any person shall be made except to a permitted assignee under Article XV of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Restrictions on Transfers.
General.
 
(b) In the event a Member shall be party to a merger, consolidation or similar business combination transaction with a third party or sell all or substantially all its assets to a third party, such Member may Transfer all (but not part) of its Membership Interests to such third party; , , that such Member shall not be permitted to Transfer its Membership Interests to such third party as aforesaid if the purpose or intent of such merger, consolidation, similar business combination transaction or sale is to circumvent or avoid the application of Sections 10.01(c) and 10.04 to the Transfer of such Member's Membership Interests to such third party.
Transfer by Operation of Law.
provided
however
 
(c) At any time after December 31, 2002, a Member may sell all (but not part) of its Membership Interests (and, in the case of Ashland, the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest) to any person (other than a Transfer by operation of law pursuant to Section 10.01(b), a Transfer to a Wholly Owned Subsidiary pursuant to Section 10.01(d) or a Transfer by Ashland to Marathon pursuant to Section 10.01(e)) if (i) it shall first have offered the other Member the opportunity to purchase such Membership Interests (and, in the case of Ashland, the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest) pursuant to the right of first refusal procedures set forth in Section 10.04, (ii) such sale is completed within the time periods specified in Section 10.04, (iii) the other Member shall have approved the purchaser of such Membership Interests (and, in the case of Ashland, the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest), which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and (iv) it shall use its commercially reasonable best efforts to (A) terminate the outstanding Original Lease underlying each of its Designated Sublease Agreements on or prior to the date of such Transfer and (B) contribute the related Subleased Property to the Company or one of its subsidiaries at no cost to the Company or such subsidiary on or prior to the date of such Transfer; , , that (i) such Member shall not be obligated to pay more than a reasonable amount as consideration therefor to, or make more than a reasonable financial accommodation in favor of, or commence litigation against, a third party lessor with respect to any such underlying Original Lease in order to obtain any consent required from such lessor and (ii) any additional cost associated with exercising an option under the Original Lease to purchase Subleased Property or to terminate the Original Lease shall be deemed not to constitute an obligation to pay more than a reasonable amount. In the event that such Member is unable to terminate an outstanding Original Lease in accordance with this Section 10.02(b), then (i) the Company shall be entitled to continue to sublease the Subleased Property pursuant to the related Designated Sublease Agreement until the term of the Original Lease expires, (ii) the Member shall continue to use its commercially reasonable best efforts to terminate the Original Lease and contribute the Subleased Property to the Company as provided above; , that (A) such Member shall not be obligated to pay more than a reasonable amount as consideration therefor to, or make more than a reasonable financial accommodation in favor of, or commence litigation against, a third party lessor with respect to any such Original Lease in order to obtain any consent required from such lessor and (b) any additional cost associated with exercising an option under the Original Lease to purchase Subleased Property or to terminate the Original Lease shall
Transfer by Sale to Third Party.
provided
however
provided
however
 
be deemed not to constitute an obligation to pay more than a reasonable amount and (iii) if such Member subsequently acquires fee title to the Subleased Property, such Member shall contribute such Subleased Property to the Company or one of its subsidiaries at no cost to the Company or such subsidiary at such time. It is expressly understood and agreed that, in determining whether to reasonably withhold its approval of a proposed purchaser of Marathon's Membership Interests pursuant to this Section 10.01(c), Ashland shall be entitled to consider the creditworthiness of such proposed purchaser, including whether such proposed purchaser is likely to be able to perform all of Marathon's and USX's respective obligations under the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
 
(d) A Member may Transfer all (but not part) of its Membership Interests at any time to a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of such Member if (i) such Member shall have received an opinion from nationally recognized tax counsel acceptable to both Members that such Transfer will not result in a termination of the status of the Company as a partnership for Federal income tax purposes and (ii) the transferring Member enters into an agreement with the other Member providing that so long as such Wholly Owned Subsidiary holds such transferring Member's Membership Interests, such Wholly Owned Subsidiary shall remain a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of such transferring Member.
Transfer to Wholly Owned Subsidiary.
 
(e) Ashland may Transfer all of its Membership Interests to Marathon in connection with the exercise by Marathon of its Marathon Call Right or its Special Termination Right or the exercise by Ashland of its Ashland Put Right. In addition, Marathon may Transfer all of its Membership Interests to Ashland in connection with the exercise by Ashland of its Special Termination Right.
Transfer Pursuant to Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
 
(f) (i) In connection with any Transfer by a Member to a third party transferee pursuant to Section 10.01(b), (A) such third party transferee shall at the time of such Transfer become subject to all of such transferring Member's obligations hereunder and shall succeed to all of such transferring Member's rights hereunder and (B) such transferring Member shall be relieved of all of its obligations hereunder other than with respect to any default hereunder by such transferring Member or any of its Affiliates hereunder that occurred prior to the time of such Transfer.
Consequences of Permitted Transfers.
 
(ii) In connection with any Transfer by a Member to a third party transferee or to the other Member pursuant to Section 10.01(c), (A) such third party transferee or such other Member shall at the time of such Transfer become subject to all of such transferring Member's obligations hereunder and shall succeed to all of such transferring Member's rights hereunder and (B) such transferring Member shall at the time of such Transfer be relieved of all of its obligations hereunder other than with respect to any default hereunder by such transferring Member or any of its Affiliates that occurred prior to the time of such Transfer.
 
(iii) In connection with any Transfer by a Member to a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of such Member pursuant to Section 10.01(d), (A) such Wholly Owned Subsidiary shall at the time of such Transfer become subject to all of such Member's obligations hereunder and shall succeed to all of such Member's rights hereunder and (B) such Member shall not be relieved of its obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the other Member, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
 
(iv) In connection with any Transfer by Ashland to Marathon pursuant to Section 10.01(e), (A) Marathon shall at the time of such Transfer become subject to all of Ashland's obligations hereunder and shall succeed to all of Ashland's rights hereunder and (B) Ashland shall at the time of such Transfer be relieved of all of its obligations hereunder other than with respect to any default hereunder by Ashland or any of its Affiliates that occurred prior to the Exercise Date (as such term is defined in the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement).
 
(v) In connection with any Transfer by Marathon to Ashland pursuant to Section 10.01(e), (A) Ashland shall at the time of such Transfer become subject to all of Marathon's obligations hereunder and shall succeed to all of Marathon's rights hereunder and (B) Marathon shall at the time of such Transfer be relieved of all of its obligations hereunder other than with respect to any default hereunder by Marathon or any of its Affiliates that occurred prior to the Special Termination Exercise Date (as such term is defined in the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement).
 
(vi) In connection with any Transfer by Ashland to a third party transferee pursuant to Section 10.01(b), 10.01(c) or 10.01(d), such third party transferee shall at the time of such Transfer succeed to all of Ashland's veto rights under Section 9.02(c); , that if Ashland Transfers its Membership Interests to a third party transferee pursuant to Section 10.01(c), such third party transferee shall not thereafter be permitted to transfer its veto rights under Section 9.02(c) to another third party transferee pursuant to Section 10.01(c).
provided
 
(vii) In connection with any Transfer by a Member to a third party transferee pursuant to this Article X, such transferring Member shall retain all of the rights granted to a Member under Article VII to examine the books and records of the Company and to receive financial statements and reports prepared by the Company until such time following such Transfer as such transferring Member ceases to have any liability under Article IX of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
 
(g) Any Transfer of a Member's Membership Interests made in violation of the applicable provisions of this Agreement shall be void and without legal effect.
Consequences of an Unpermitted Transfer.
 
SECTION 10.02. No transferee of all of the Membership Interests of any Member shall be admitted as a Member hereunder unless (a) such Membership Interests are Transferred to a person in compliance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement, (b) such transferee shall have executed and delivered to the Company such instruments as the Board of Managers deems necessary or desirable in its reasonable discretion to effectuate the admission of such transferee as a Member and to confirm the agreement of such transferee or recipient to be bound by all the terms and provisions of this Agreement with respect to the Membership Interests acquired by such transferee and (c) such transferee shall have executed and delivered an assignment and assumption agreement pursuant to Section 15.04 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Conditions for Admission.
 
SECTION 10.03. Subject to applicable Treasury Regulations, upon the Transfer of all the Membership Interests of a Member as herein provided, the Profit or Loss of the Company attributable to the Membership Interests so transferred for the Fiscal Year during which such Transfer occurs shall be
Allocations and Distributions.
 
allocated between the transferor and transferee as of the date set forth on the written assignment, and such allocation shall be based upon any permissible method agreed to by the Members that is provided for in Code Section 706 and the Treasury Regulations issued thereunder. Except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 5.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement, distributions shall be made to the holder of record of the Membership Interests on the date of distribution.
 
SECTION 10.04. (a) If a Member (the "") shall desire to sell all (but not part) of its Membership Interests (which, for purposes of this Section 10.04, shall be deemed to include, in the case of Ashland, the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest) pursuant to Section 10.01(c), then the Selling Member shall give notice (the "") to the other Member, identifying the proposed purchaser from whom it has received a bona fide offer and setting forth the proposed sale price (which shall be payable only in cash or purchase money obligations secured solely by the Membership Interests being sold) and the other material terms and conditions upon which the Selling Member is proposing to sell such Membership Interests to such proposed purchaser. No such sale shall encompass or be conditioned upon the sale or purchase of any property other than such Membership Interests (other than, in the case of Ashland, the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest). The other Member shall have 30 days from receipt of the Offer Notice to elect, by notice to the Selling Member, to purchase the Membership Interests offered for sale on the terms and conditions set forth in the Offer Notice.
Right of First Refusal.
Selling Member
Offer Notice
 
(b) If a Member makes such election, the notice of election shall state a closing date not later than 60 days after the date of the Offer Notice. If such Member breaches its obligation to purchase the Membership Interests of the Selling Member on the same terms and conditions as those contained in the Offer Notice after giving notice of its election to make such purchase (other than where such breach is due to circumstances beyond such Member's reasonable control), then, in addition to all other remedies available, the Selling Member may, at any time for a period of 270 days after such default, sell such Membership Interests to any person at any price and upon any other terms without further compliance with the procedures set forth in Section 10.04.
 
(c) If the other Member gives notice within the 30-day period following the Offer Notice from the Selling Member that it elects not to purchase the Membership Interests, the Selling Member may, within 120 days after the
 
end of such 30-day period (or 270 days in the case where such parties have received a second request under HSR), sell such Membership Interests to the identified purchaser (subject to clause (iii) of Section 10.01(c)) on terms and conditions no less favorable to the Selling Member than the terms and conditions set forth in such Offer Notice. In the event the Selling Member shall desire to offer the Membership Interests for sale on terms and conditions less favorable to it than those previously set forth in an Offer Notice, the procedures set forth in this Section 10.04 must again be initiated and applied with respect to the terms and conditions as modified.
 
SECTION 10.05. Except in connection with a Transfer permitted pursuant to Section 10.01, neither Member shall resign or withdraw from the Company without the consent of the other Member. Any purported resignation or withdrawal from the Company in violation of this Section 10.05 shall be null and void and of no force or effect.
Restriction on Resignation or Withdrawal.
 
 
 
SECTION 11.01. Except as otherwise provided by the Delaware Act, the debts, obligations and liabilities of the Company, whether arising in contract, tort or otherwise, shall be solely the debts, obligations and liabilities of the Company, and no Covered Person shall be obligated personally for any such debt, obligation or liability of the Company solely by reason of being a Covered Person.
Liability.
 
SECTION 11.02. (a) No Covered Person shall be liable to the Company or any other Covered Person for any cost, expense, loss, damage, claim or liability incurred by reason of any act or omission performed or omitted by such Covered Person in such capacity, whether or not such person continues to be a Covered Person at the time of such cost, expense, loss, damage, claim or liability is incurred or imposed, if the Covered Person acted in good faith and in a manner the Covered Person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, and if, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such Covered Person had no reasonable cause to believe its conduct was unlawful, except that a Covered Person shall be liable for any such cost, expense, loss, damage, claim or liability incurred by reason of such Covered Person's breach of Section 12.02.
Exculpation.
 
(b) A Covered Person shall be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the records of the Company and upon such information, opinions, reports or statements presented to the Company by any person as to any matters the Covered Person reasonably believes are within such other person's professional or expert competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Company, including information, opinions, reports or statements as to the value and amount of the assets, liabilities, profits, losses, or any other facts pertinent to the existence and amount of assets from which distributions to Members might properly be paid.
 
SECTION 11.03. (a) To the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law, a Covered Person shall be entitled to indemnification from the Company for any reasonable cost and expense, loss, damage, claim or liability incurred by such Covered Person in connection with any pending, threatened or completed claim, action, suit or proceeding by reason of being a Covered Person or by reason of any act or omission performed or omitted by such Covered Person in such capacity, whether or not such person continues to be a Covered Person at the time such cost, expense, loss, damage, claim or liability is incurred or imposed, if the Covered Person (i) has been successful on the merits or otherwise with respect to such claim, action, suit or proceeding, or (ii) acted in good faith and in a manner the Covered Person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, and if, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such Covered Person had no reasonable cause to believe its conduct was unlawful, except that no Covered Person shall be entitled to be indemnified in respect of any such cost, expense, loss, damage, claim or liability incurred by such Covered Person by reason of such Covered Person's breach of Section 12.02 with respect to such acts or omissions; , , that any indemnity under this Section 11.03 shall be provided out of and to the extent of Company assets only, and no Covered Person shall have any personal liability on account of such indemnification of any other Covered Person, and provided further that, in the case of officers, employees and agents of the Company, such right to indemnification shall be subject to any further limitations or requirements that may be adopted by the Board of Managers, provided such limitations or requirements were adopted prior to the events that gave rise to the claim for indemnification.
Indemnification.
provided
however
 
(b) Expenses incurred with respect to any claim, action, suit or proceeding of the character described in Section 11.03(a) shall be advanced to a Covered Person by
 
the Company prior to the final disposition thereof, but the Covered Person shall be obligated to repay such advances if it is ultimately determined that the Covered Person is not entitled to indemnification under Section 11.03(a). As a condition to advancing expenses hereunder, the Company may require the Covered Person to sign a written instrument acknowledging his obligation to repay any advances hereunder if it is ultimately determined he is not entitled to such indemnity.
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 11.03 to the contrary, no Covered Person shall be indemnified in respect of any claim, action, suit or proceeding initiated by such Covered Person or his personal or legal representative, or which involved the voluntary solicitation or intervention of such person or his personal or legal representative (other than an action to enforce indemnification rights hereunder or any action initiated with the approval of a majority of the Board of Managers).
 
(d) The rights of indemnification provided in this Section 11.03 shall be in addition to any other rights to which any Covered Person may otherwise be entitled to by contract or otherwise; and in the event of any Covered Person's death, such rights shall extend to such Covered Person's heirs and personal representatives.
 
 
 
SECTION 12.01. To the extent that, at law or in equity, a Covered Person has duties (including fiduciary duties) and liabilities relating thereto to the Company or to any other Covered Person, a Covered Person acting under this Agreement shall not be liable to the Company or to any other Covered Person for its good faith reliance on the provisions of this Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement, to the extent that they expand or restrict the duties and liabilities of a Covered Person otherwise existing at law or in equity, are agreed by the parties hereto to replace such other duties and liabilities of such Covered Person.
Duties and Liabilities of Covered Persons.
 
SECTION 12.02. Each Member and each member of the Board of Managers shall have the fiduciary duties of loyalty and care (similar to the fiduciary duties of loyalty and care of directors of a business corporation governed by the General Corporation Law
Fiduciary Duties of Members of the Company and Members of the Board of Managers.
 
of the State of Delaware) to the Company and all of the Members. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, each Member and each member of the Board of Managers agrees to and shall exercise good faith, fairness and loyalty to the Company and to all of the Members, and shall make all decisions in a manner that such Member or such member of the Board of Managers reasonably believes to be in the best interest of the Company and all of the Members. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 12.02 is not intended to limit a Member's ability to exercise or enforce any of its rights and remedies under this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents in good faith, including, without limitation, Article IX of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
 
 
 
SECTION 13.01. All controversies, claims or disputes between the Members or between the Company and either Member that arise out of or relate to this Agreement or the construction, interpretation, performance, breach, termination, enforceability or validity of this Agreement, or the commercial, economic or other relationship of the parties hereto, whether such claim is based on rights, privileges or interests recognized by or based upon statute, contract, tort, common law or otherwise and whether such claim existed prior to or arises on or after January 1, 1998 (a "") shall be resolved in accordance with the provisions of this Article XIII (except as otherwise expressly provided in Sections 6.06 and 6.08). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Article XIII, nothing in this Article XIII shall limit the ability of the directors and officers of either Member from communicating directly with the directors and officers of the other Member.
General.
Dispute
 
SECTION 13.02. Either Member may give the other Member written notice (a "") of any Dispute which has not been resolved in the normal course of business. Within fifteen Business Days after delivery of the Dispute Notice, the receiving Member shall submit to the other Member a written response (the ""). The Dispute Notice and the Response shall each include (i) a statement setting forth the position of the Member giving such notice, a summary of the arguments supporting such position and, if applicable, the relief sought and (ii) the name and title of a senior manager of such Member who has authority to settle the
Dispute Notice and Response.
Dispute Notice
Response
 
Dispute and will be responsible for the negotiations related to the settlement of the Dispute (the "").
Senior Manager
 
SECTION 13.03. (a) Within 10 days after delivery of the Response provided for in Section 13.02, the Senior Managers of both Members shall meet or communicate by telephone at a mutually acceptable time and place, and thereafter as often as they reasonably deem necessary, and shall negotiate in good faith to attempt to resolve the Dispute that is the subject of such Dispute Notice. If such Dispute has not been resolved within 45 days after delivery of the Dispute Notice, then the Members shall attempt to settle the Dispute pursuant to Section 13.04.
Negotiation Between Senior Managers.
 
(b) All negotiations between the Senior Managers pursuant to this Section 13.03 shall be treated as compromise and settlement negotiations. Nothing said or disclosed, nor any document produced, in the course of such negotiations which is not otherwise independently discoverable shall be offered or received as evidence or used for impeachment or for any other purpose in any current or future arbitration or litigation.
 
SECTION 13.04. (a) If the Dispute has not been resolved by negotiation between the Senior Managers pursuant to Section 13.03, then within 10 Business Days after the expiration of the 45 day period provided in Section 13.03, the Chief Executive Officer of Ashland and the President of Marathon shall meet or communicate by telephone at a mutually acceptable time and place, and thereafter as often as they reasonably deem necessary, and shall negotiate in good faith to attempt to resolve the Dispute that is the subject of such Dispute Notice. If such Dispute has not been resolved within 20 Business Days after the expiration of the 45 day period provided in Section 13.03, then (i) if the Dispute relates solely to (A) a claim by a Member or the Board of Managers that the other Member has failed to pay the Company a Designated Sublease Amount or an amount in respect of a Member-Funded Capital Expenditure, a Member-Funded Indemnity Expenditure or an Agreed Additional Capital Contribution required to be made by it pursuant to Section 4.02 (a ""), (B) the determination of any of the following amounts with respect to any period: distributions pursuant to Article V; the Aggregate Tax Rate; Adjusted DD&A; Adjusted EBITDA; EBITDA; Distributable Cash; the Average Annual Level and adjustments to Adjustable Amounts; the Normal Annual Capital Budget Amount; Ordinary Course Lease Expenses; Profit and Loss; the Tax Distribution
Negotiation Between Chief Executive Officer and President.
Disputed Capital Contribution Amount
 
Amount; the Tax Liability of any Member; and the determination of fair market value of property distributed in kind under Section 15.03, (C) the resolution of any dispute arising under Section 8.11(b) with respect to Affiliate Transactions or (D) the resolution of any dispute arising under Section 8.12 with respect to certain Affiliate Transactions related to Crude Oil Purchases and Shared Services (any Dispute relating to any of the matters set forth in clause (A), (B), (C) or (D) above being referred to herein as an ""), such Dispute shall be settled pursuant to the arbitration procedures set forth in Appendix B and (ii) if the Dispute does not relate primarily to an Arbitratable Dispute, each party hereto shall be permitted to take such actions at law or in equity as it is otherwise permitted to take or as may be available under Applicable Law.
Arbitratable Dispute
 
(b) All negotiations between the Chief Executive Officer of Ashland and the President of Marathon pursuant to this Section 13.04 shall be treated as compromise and settlement negotiations. Nothing said or disclosed, nor any document produced, in the course of such negotiations which is not otherwise independently discoverable shall be offered or received as evidence or used for impeachment or for any other purpose in any current or future arbitration or litigation.
 
SECTION 13.05. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement or Appendix B to the contrary, either Member or the Company may at any time seek from any court of the United States located in the State of Delaware or from any Delaware state court, any interim, provisional or injunctive relief that may be necessary to protect the rights or property of such party or maintain the status quo before, during or after the pendency of the negotiation process or the arbitration proceeding or any other proceeding contemplated by Section 13.03 or 13.04.
Right to Equitable Relief Preserved.
 
 
 
SECTION 14.01. (a) If the Company or a Member on behalf of the Company (a "") claims that the other Member (a "") owes the Company a monetary amount in respect of either (i) a Disputed Capital Contribution Amount or (ii) an indemnification obligation under Article IX of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement that the Company or the
Ability of Company to Borrow to Fund Disputed Monetary Amounts.
Non-Delinquent Member
Delinquent Member
 
Non-Delinquent Member claims the Delinquent Member owes the Company and is either (A) past due or (B) in dispute (a "") (each such claim described in clauses (i) and (ii) above being a "", and each such claimed amount being a ""), and if (1) the Disputed Monetary Amount itself, or when added together all other Disputed Monetary Amounts, exceeds $7.5 million; (2) the Board of Managers (by vote of a majority of the Representatives of the Non-Delinquent Member at a special or regular meeting of the Board of Managers (which majority shall constitute a quorum for purposes of the transaction of such business)) has determined that an out-of-pocket disbursement of such Disputed Monetary Amount or any portion thereof by the Company or one of its subsidiaries within the next twelve months is reasonably necessary for the operation and conduct of the Company's Business and, accordingly, that such amount should be paid within the next twelve months; (3) the aggregate amount of all Disputed Monetary Amounts (or portions thereof) that the Board of Managers shall have determined pursuant to clause (2) above should be paid within the next twelve months (such aggregate amount being the "") exceeds $7.5 million; (4) postponement by the Company or such subsidiary of such disbursement until such time as the Monetary Dispute is reasonably likely to be finally resolved pursuant to an arbitration proceeding in accordance with Appendix B to this Agreement or Appendix B to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement, as applicable (an ""), would have, or would reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect on the Company's Business; and (5) the Delinquent Member has not paid the Company the Disputed Monetary Amount pursuant to Section 14.02 or otherwise, then the Board of Managers (by vote of a majority of the Representatives of the Non-Delinquent Member at a special or regular meeting of the Board of Managers (which majority shall constitute a quorum for purposes of the transaction of such business)) shall be permitted to cause the Company to incur an amount of Indebtedness equal to such Additional Required Cash Amount, which Indebtedness may be borrowed from a third party or the Non-Delinquent Member.
Disputed Indemnification Amount
Monetary Dispute
Disputed Monetary Amount
Additional Required Cash Amount
Arbitration Proceeding
 
(b) If the Non-Delinquent Member lends the Company the Additional Required Cash Amount pursuant to Section 14.01(a), then (i) the amount actually lent by the Non-Delinquent Member (the "") and all accrued interest thereon shall be due and payable on the Arbitration Payment Due Date ( that the Company shall be permitted to prepay the Advanced Amount in whole or in part at any time prior to such date); and (ii) the Advanced Amount shall bear interest at the Base Rate from
Advanced Amount
provided
 
the date on which such advance is made until the date that the Advanced Amount, together with all interest accrued thereon, is repaid to the Non-Delinquent Member.
 
SECTION 14.02. In order to reduce the amount of liquidated damages that a Delinquent Member would be required to pay to the Company pursuant to Section 14.03 in the event that such Delinquent Member loses in an Arbitration Proceeding with respect to a Monetary Dispute, the Delinquent Member shall be permitted to pay the Company the related Disputed Monetary Amount prior to the commencement of such Arbitration Proceeding. The Arbitration Tribunal or Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall not take into consideration in determining the liability of the Delinquent Member, a decision by such Delinquent Member to pay the Disputed Monetary Amount prior to the commencement of the Arbitration Proceeding.
Interim Payment of Disputed Monetary Amount.
 
SECTION 14.03. (a) If (i) it is finally determined in an Arbitration Proceeding that a Delinquent Member owes the Company a monetary amount in respect of (A) a Disputed Capital Contribution Amount or (B) a Disputed Indemnification Amount (each such finally determined amount being a "") and (ii) the Delinquent Member had not paid the Company the Disputed Monetary Amount prior to the commencement of such Arbitration Proceeding pursuant to Section 14.02, then the Delinquent Member shall promptly, and in any event on or before the tenth Business Day following the date on which the Arbitration Tribunal or Sole Arbitrator makes its final determination (such tenth Business Day being the ""), pay to the Company (A) the Final Monetary Amount, together with interest, accrued from the commencement of the Arbitration Proceeding to the date that the Delinquent Member pays the Final Monetary Amount to the Company, on the Final Monetary Amount, at a rate per annum equal to (1) during the period from the commencement of the Arbitration Proceeding to the Arbitration Payment Due Date, the Prime Rate and (2) at any time thereafter, 150% of the Prime Rate, in each case, with daily accrual of interest, plus (B) an amount equal to 25% of the Final Monetary Amount.
Liquidated Damages.
No Interim Payment of Disputed Monetary AmountDelinquent Member is Found Liable for Final Monetary Amount.
Final Monetary Amount
Arbitration Payment Due Date
 
(b) If (i) it is finally determined in an Arbitration Proceeding that a Delinquent Member owes the Company a Final Monetary Amount, (ii) the Final Monetary Amount is equal to the
Interim Payment of Disputed Monetary AmountDelinquent Member is Found Liable for the Same Amount.
 
Disputed Monetary Amount and (iii) the Delinquent Member had paid the Company the Disputed Monetary Amount prior to the commencement of such Arbitration Proceeding pursuant to Section 14.02, then if the Final Monetary Amount is equal to the Disputed Monetary Amount, the Delinquent Member shall not owe the Company any other amount in respect of the Monetary Dispute.
 
(c) If (i) it is finally determined in an Arbitration Proceeding that a Delinquent Member owes the Company a Final Monetary Amount, (ii) the Final Monetary Amount is greater than the Disputed Monetary Amount and (iii) the Delinquent Member had paid the Company the Disputed Monetary Amount prior to the commencement of such Arbitration Proceeding pursuant to Section 14.02, then the Delinquent Member shall promptly, and in any event on or before the Arbitration Payment Due Date, pay to the Company an amount (an "") equal to (A) the Final Monetary Amount less (B) the Disputed Monetary Amount, together with interest, accrued from the commencement of the Arbitration Proceeding to the date that the Delinquent Member pays the Additional Monetary Amount to the Company, on the Additional Monetary Amount, at a rate per annum equal to (1) during for the period from the commencement of the Arbitration Proceeding to the Arbitration Payment Due Date, the Prime Rate and (2) at any time thereafter, 150% of the Prime Rate, in each case, with daily accrual of interest.
Interim Payment of Disputed Monetary AmountDelinquent Member is Found Liable for a Greater Amount.
Additional Monetary Amount
 
(d) If (i) it is finally determined in an Arbitration Proceeding that a Delinquent Member owes the Company a Final Monetary Amount, (ii) the Final Monetary Amount is less than the Disputed Monetary Amount and (iii) the Delinquent Member had paid the Company the Disputed Monetary Amount prior to the commencement of such Arbitration Proceeding, then the Company shall promptly, and in any event on or before the Arbitration Payment Due Date, repay to the Delinquent Member an amount (a "") equal to (A) the Disputed Monetary Amount less (B) the Final Monetary Amount, together with interest, accrued from the commencement of the Arbitration Proceeding to the date that the Company repays the Refundable Amount to the Delinquent Member, on the Refundable Amount, at a rate per annum equal to (1) during the period from the commencement of the Arbitration Proceeding to the Arbitration Payment Due Date, the Prime Rate and (2) at any time thereafter, 150% of the Prime Rate, in each case, with daily accrual of interest.
Interim Payment of Disputed Monetary AmountDelinquent Member is Found Liable for a Lesser Amount.
Refundable Amount
 
(e) If (i) it is finally determined in an Arbitration Proceeding that a Delinquent Member does not owe the Company the related Disputed Monetary Amount and (ii) the Delinquent Member had paid the Company the Disputed Monetary Amount prior to the commencement of such Arbitration Proceeding, then the Company shall promptly, and in any event on or before the Arbitration Payment Due Date, repay to the Delinquent Member an amount equal to the Disputed Monetary Amount, together with interest, accrued from the commencement of the Arbitration Proceeding to the date that the Company repays the Disputed Monetary Amount to the Delinquent Member, on the Disputed Monetary Amount, at a rate per annum equal to (A) during the period from the commencement of the Arbitration Proceeding to the Arbitration Payment Due Date, the Prime Rate and (B) at any time thereafter, 150% of the Prime Rate, in each case, with daily accrual of interest.
Interim Payment of Disputed Monetary AmountDelinquent Member is Found Not Liable for Disputed Monetary Amount.
 
SECTION 14.04. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if at the time of a Distribution Date a Delinquent Member has failed to pay the Company an amount that it was required pursuant to Section 14.03 to pay to the Company on or before such Distribution Date, then on such Distribution Date, the Company shall be permitted to set off from the distribution that it would otherwise be required to make to such Delinquent Member pursuant to Section 5.01 on such Distribution Date, an amount equal to such unpaid amount. If the amount of the distribution that such Delinquent Member was otherwise entitled to receive pursuant to Section 5.01 on such Distribution Date is less than the aggregate amount that such Delinquent Member owes to the Company pursuant to Section 14.03, then the Company shall be permitted to set off from subsequent distributions that it would otherwise make to such Delinquent Member pursuant to Section 5.01 the remaining unpaid amount until such time as such remaining unpaid amount shall have been paid in full. A Delinquent Member's interest in distributions to be made to such Delinquent Member pursuant to Section 5.01 shall be reduced by any amount set off by the Company against such distributions pursuant to this Section 14.04(a).
Right of Set-Off.
 
SECTION 14.05. (a) Each Member hereby agrees that if (i) it has failed to pay the Company an amount that it was required to pay to the Company pursuant to Section 14.03 on or prior to the related Arbitration Payment Due Date, and (ii) the Board of Managers (by vote of a majority of the Representatives of the other Member at a special or regular meeting of the Board of
Security Interest.
 
Managers (which majority shall constitute a quorum for purposes of the transaction of such business) so requests, such Member shall (A) on the Business Day next following such Arbitration Payment Due Date, grant to the Company, as security for the performance of its obligation to pay the Company such amount owed (but for no other amount), a first priority security interest in its Membership Interests and the proceeds thereof (a ""), all under the Uniform Commercial Code of the State of Delaware and (ii) promptly thereafter, execute and deliver to the Company all financing statements and other instruments that the Board of Managers (by vote of a majority of the Representatives of the other Member at a special or regular meeting of the Board of Managers (which majority shall constitute a quorum for purposes of the transaction of such business)) may request to effectuate and carry out the preceding provisions of this Section 14.05(a). The Company shall be entitled to all the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Uniform Commercial Code of the State of Delaware with respect to any Security Interest granted by such Member. At the option of the Company, this Agreement or a carbon, photographic, or other copy hereof may serve as a financing statement with respect to any such Security Interest. For purposes of perfecting a Security Interest, a Member's Membership Interests shall be deemed to be a "security" governed by Chapter 8 of the Delaware Uniform Commercial Code and as such term is therein defined in Section 8-102(c) thereunder.
Security Interest
 
(b) If the Company incurs Indebtedness pursuant to Section 14.01 by borrowing from a Non-Delinquent Member, the Company shall be permitted to assign all its rights with respect to a Security Interest granted to it pursuant to Section 14.05(a) to such Non-Delinquent Member as security for such Indebtedness; that such Non-Delinquent Member shall not be permitted to assign such Security Interest to a third party.
provided
 
 
 
SECTION 15.01. The Company shall be dissolved and its business and affairs wound up upon the earliest to occur of any one of the following events:
Dissolution.
 
(a) the expiration of the Term of the Company;
 
(b) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all the property of the Company;
 
(c) the written consent of both Members;
 
(d) the unanimous agreement of all Representatives on the Board of Managers;
 
(e) the bankruptcy, involuntary liquidation or dissolution of either Member; or
 
(f) the entry of a decree of judicial dissolution pursuant to Section 18-802 of the Delaware Act.
 
The bankruptcy, involuntary liquidation of dissolution of a Member shall cause a Member to cease to be a member of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be dissolved and its business and affairs shall not be wound up upon the occurrence of any event specified in (i) clause (e) above if within 90 days after the date on which such event occurs, the remaining Member elects in writing to continue the business of the Company or (ii) clause (a) above if a Non-Terminating Member purchases the Membership Interests of the Terminating Member pursuant to its Special Termination Right. Except as provided in this paragraph and Section 15.01(e), and to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware Act, the occurrence of an event that causes a Member to cease to be a member of the Company shall not cause the Company to be dissolved or its business or affairs to be wound up, and upon the occurrence of such an event, the business of the Company shall continue without dissolution.
 
SECTION 15.02. Upon dissolution, the Company's business shall be liquidated in an orderly manner. The Board of Managers shall act as the liquidating trustee (unless the Board of Managers elects to appoint a liquidating trustee) to wind up the affairs of the Company pursuant to this Agreement. In performing its duties, the liquidating trustee is authorized to sell, distribute, exchange or otherwise dispose of the assets of the Company in accordance with the Delaware Act and in any reasonable manner that the liquidating trustee shall determine to be in the best interest of the Members or their successors-in-interest.
Winding Up of Company.
 
SECTION 15.03. In the event the Board of Managers determines that it is necessary in connection with the liquidation of the Company to make a distribution of property in kind, such property shall be transferred and conveyed to the Members so as to vest in each of them as a tenant in common an undivided interest in the whole of such property equal to their interests in the property based upon the amount of cash that would be
Distribution of Property.
 
distributed to each of the Members in accordance with Article V if such property were sold for an amount of cash equal to the fair market value of such property, as determined and approved by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b).
 
SECTION 15.04. Any liquidating distribution pursuant to this Article XV shall be made no later than the later of (a) the end of the taxable year during which such liquidation occurs and (b) 90 days after the date of such liquidation.
Time Limitation.
 
SECTION 15.05. The Company shall terminate when all assets of the Company, after payment of or due provision for all debts, liabilities and obligations of the Company, shall have been distributed to the Members in the manner provided for in this Agreement, and the Certificate of Formation shall have been canceled in the manner provided by the Delaware Act.
Termination of Company.
 
 
 
SECTION 16.01. Any notice, consent or approval to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given if delivered: (i) personally by a reputable courier service that requires a signature upon delivery; (ii) by mailing the same via registered or certified first-class mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested; or (iii) by telecopying the same with receipt confirmation (followed by a first-class mailing of the same) to the intended recipient. Any such writing will be deemed to have been given: (a) as of the date of personal delivery via courier as described above; (b) as of the third calendar day after depositing the same into the custody of the postal service as evidenced by the date-stamped receipt issued upon deposit of the same into the mails as described above; and (c) as of the date and time electronically transmitted in the case of telecopy delivery as described above, in each case addressed to the intended party at the address set forth below:
Notices.
 
To the Board of Managers:
 
Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
539 South Main Street
Findlay, Ohio 45840
Attn: General Counsel
Phone: (419) 422-2121
Fax: (419) 421-4115
 
To Marathon:
 
Marathon Oil Company
5555 San Felipe
P.O. Box 3128
Houston, TX 77056-2723
Attn: General Counsel
Phone: (713) 296-4137
Fax: (713) 296-4171
 
To Ashland:
 
Ashland Inc.
50 E. RiverCenter Boulevard
P.O. Box 391
Covington, KY 41012-0391
Attn: General Counsel
Phone: (606) 815-4711
Fax: (606) 815-3823
 
Any party may designate different addresses or telecopy numbers by notice to the other parties.
 
SECTION 16.02. This Agreement (including the Exhibits, Schedules and Appendices attached hereto), together with the other Transaction Documents (including the exhibits, schedules and appendices thereto) and certain other agreements executed contemporaneously with the Master Formation Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement of the parties hereto and supersedes any prior understandings, agreements, or representations by or among the parties hereto, written or oral, to the extent they relate in any way to the subject matter hereof.
Merger and Entire Agreement.
 
SECTION 16.03. A party hereto shall not assign all or any of its rights, obligations or benefits under this Agreement to any third party otherwise than (i) in connection with a Transfer of its Membership Interests pursuant to Article X, (ii) with the prior written consent of the other party hereto, which consent may be withheld in such party's sole discretion, (iii) the granting by a Member of a Security Interest to the Company pursuant to Section 14.05 or (iv) pursuant to Article V of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement, and any attempted assignment not in compliance with this Section 16.03 shall be void .
Assignment.
ab
initio
 
SECTION 16.04. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the parties hereto and their respective successors, legal representatives and permitted assigns.
Parties in Interest.
 
SECTION 16.05. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
 
SECTION 16.06. This Agreement may not be amended except in a written instrument signed by each of the parties hereto and expressly stating it is an amendment to this Agreement. Any failure or delay on the part of any party hereto in exercising any power or right hereunder shall not operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power hereunder or otherwise available at law or in equity.
Amendment; Waiver.
 
SECTION 16.07. If any term, provision, covenant, or restriction of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, at any time or to any extent, is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement (or the application of such provision in other jurisdictions or to persons or circumstances other than those to which it was held invalid or unenforceable) shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated, and to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, any such term, provision, covenant or restriction shall be restricted in applicability or reformed to the minimum extent required for such to be enforceable. This provision shall be interpreted and enforced to give effect to the original written intent of the parties hereto prior to the determination of such invalidity or unenforceability.
Severability.
 
SECTION 16.08. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW THEREOF. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 18-1101 OF THE DELAWARE ACT. ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY WITH RESPECT TO ANY CLAIM OR PROCEEDING RELATED TO OR ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT, OR ANY TRANSACTION OR CONDUCT IN CONNECTION HEREWITH, IS WAIVED.
GOVERNING LAW.
 
SECTION 16.09. The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the parties hereto shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement in the Delaware Chancery Court; that if the Delaware Chancery Court does not have jurisdiction with respect to such matter, the parties hereto shall be entitled to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement in any court of the United States located in the State of Delaware or in Delaware state court, this being in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity. In addition, each of the parties hereto (i) consents to submit itself to the personal jurisdiction of the Delaware Chancery Court in the event that any dispute arises out of this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; that if the Delaware Chancery Court does not have jurisdiction with respect to any such dispute, such party consents to submit itself to the personal jurisdiction of any Federal court located in the State of Delaware or any Delaware state court, (ii) agrees to appoint and maintain an agent in the State of Delaware for service of legal process, (iii) agrees that it will not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court, (iv) agrees that it will not plead or claim in any such court that any action relating to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum and (v) agrees that it will not initiate any action relating to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in any court other than (1) the Delaware Chancery Court, or (2)if the Delaware Chancery Court does not have jurisdiction with respect to such action, a Federal court sitting in the State of Delaware or a Delaware state court.
Enforcement.
provided
provided
 
SECTION 16.10. None of the provisions of this Agreement shall be for the benefit of or enforceable by any creditor of the Company or of any Member.
Creditors.
 
SECTION 16.11. In no event shall either Member have any right to file a bill for an accounting or any similar proceeding.
No Bill for Accounting.
 
SECTION 16.12. Each Member hereby waives any right to partition of the Company property.
Waiver of Partition.
 
SECTION 16.13. The table of contents and section headings of this Agreement and titles given to Exhibits and Schedules to this Agreement are for reference purposes only and are to be given no effect in the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
Table of Contents, Headings and Titles.
 
SECTION 16.14. As used in this Agreement, the words "", "" and "" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular paragraph, subparagraph, section, subsection or other subdivision. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun used in this Agreement shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the singular form of nouns, pronouns and verbs shall include the plural and vice versa. Each party hereto agrees that any rule of construction to the effect that any ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party shall not be employed in the interpretation or construction of this Agreement or any Transaction Document.
Use of Certain Terms; Rules of Construction.
herein
hereof
hereunder
 
SECTION 16.15. Notwithstanding any deadline for payment, performance, notice or election under this Agreement, if such deadline falls on a date that is not a Business Day, then the deadline for such payment, performance, notice or election will be extended to the next succeeding Business Day.
Holidays.
 
SECTION 16.16. Nothing herein expressed or implied is intended or shall be construed to confer upon or give any person and their respective successors, legal representatives and permitted assigns any rights, remedies or basis for reliance upon, under or by reason of this Agreement.
Third Parties.
 
SECTION 16.17. Except where and to the extent that a contrary intention otherwise appears, where a Member undertakes to cause its Affiliates to take or abstain from taking any action, such undertaking shall mean (i) in the case of any Affiliate that is controlled by such Member, that such Member shall cause such Affiliate to take or abstain from taking such action and (ii) in the case of an Affiliate that controls or is under common control with such Member, that such Member shall use its commercially reasonable best efforts to cause such Affiliates to take or abstain from taking such action; , , that such Member shall not be required to violate, or cause any director of such Affiliate to violate, any fiduciary duty to minority shareholders of such Affiliate.
Liability for Affiliates.
provided
however
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed by the Members as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
 
 
The following terms shall have the following meanings wherever they appear in a Transaction Document (as hereinafter defined) and such meanings shall be equally applicable to both the singular and the plural forms of the terms herein defined. References herein to an agreement, instrument or document shall, unless otherwise expressly provided, include such agreement, instrument or document as the same may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with its terms and as permitted by the Transaction Documents and shall include the permitted successors to, and assigns of, any Person.
 
"" shall mean the Addendum and Joinder to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit W to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Addendum and Joinder
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Person in question; provided, however, that unless otherwise indicated, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries shall be considered an Affiliate of Marathon, USX or Ashland.
Affiliate
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.4(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Affiliated Ashland Group
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Affiliated Marathon Group
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.02 of the LLC Agreement.
Applicable GAAP
 
"" shall mean any applicable statute, law, regulation, ordinance, rule, judgment, rule of law, order, decree, permit, approval, concession, grant, franchise, license, agreement, requirement, or other governmental restriction or any similar form of decision of, or any provision or condition of any permit, license or other operating authorization issued under any of the foregoing by, or any determination by any Governmental Authority having or asserting jurisdiction over the matter or matters in question, whether now or hereafter in effect and in each case as amended (including without limitation, all of the terms and provisions of the common law of such Governmental Authority), as interpreted and enforced at the time in question.
Applicable Law
 
"" shall mean Ashland Inc., a Kentucky corporation, or its successor.
Ashland
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(g) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Asset Leases
 
"" shall mean the letter from Ashland to Marathon and the Company dated the date of and relating to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Assumed Liabilities
 
"" shall mean every Employee Benefit Plan sponsored, maintained, or contributed to, or required to be contributed to, by Ashland, or any ERISA Affiliate of Ashland, for the benefit of current or former employees of Ashland's Business in the United States.
Ashland Benefit Plan
 
"" shall mean the Ashland Chemical Product Sale Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit P to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Chemical Product Sale Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Commercial Affiliates
 
"" shall mean any consent decrees, consent orders, agreed orders, notices of violation, judgments, decrees or similar orders or obligations entered into prior to Closing or relating to any investigations of which Ashland had received notice from the appropriate Governmental Authority prior to Closing.
Ashland Consent Decrees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(o) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Contracts
 
"" shall mean the Ashland Sublease Agreements in substantially the forms attached as Exhibit L to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Designated Sublease Agreements
 
"" shall mean any Environmental Contamination associated with, or discovered as part of, Ashland's 1998 underground storage tank upgrade program at the Ashland Service Stations set forth on Schedule 9.1(c) to the Ashland Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter under the heading "Ashland Designated UST Environmental Contamination."
Ashland Designated UST Environmental Contamination
 
"" shall mean any Environmental Loss to the extent arising out of, based on, or occurring in connection with Ashland's Business prior to Closing or related to the ownership, use, operation or maintenance of, or related to the reporting practices associated with, the Ashland Transferred Assets prior to Closing, whether or not Asserted prior to Closing.
Ashland Environmental Loss
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Excluded Assets
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.4 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Excluded Liabilities
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(i) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Excluded Taxes
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.6 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Financial Statements
 
"" shall mean the General Assignment and Assumption Agreement in substantially the form attached as of Exhibit I to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland General Assignment and Assumption Agreement
 
"" shall mean Ashland and its Affiliates and their respective employees, officers and directors.
Ashland Indemnified Persons
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.8 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Information Package
 
"" shall mean the Intellectual Property License Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit J-1 to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Intellectual Property License Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(b) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Joint Contracts
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Joint Permits
 
"" shall mean the Ashland Joint Services Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit Q to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Joint Services Agreement
 
"" shall mean the Lease Agreements in substantially the form attached as Exhibit K to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Lease Agreements
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest
 
"" shall mean the letter from Ashland to Marathon dated the date of and relating to the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Master Formation Agreement Disclosure Letter
 
" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.9 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Material Contracts"
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.3 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Material Permits
 
"" shall mean the audited balance sheet of Ashland appearing in the Ashland Financial Statements.
Ashland 1997 Balance Sheet
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Ashland Environmental Loss, Remediation Activities that either were commenced prior to Closing or that relate to any investigation of which Ashland had received notice from the appropriate Governmental Authority prior to Closing.
Ashland Ongoing Remediation
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(h) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Other Real Property Rights
 
"" shall mean the Ashland Sublease Agreements in substantially the forms attached as Exhibit M to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Other Sublease Agreements
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5(c)(i) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Pension Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(p) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Permits
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(j) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Personal Property Leases
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(i) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Personal Property Owned
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Pipelines
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.10(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Proprietary Rights
 
"" shall mean the Quitclaim Deeds substantially in the forms attached as Exhibit H to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Quitclaim Deeds
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(f) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Real Property Leased
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(f) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Real Property Leases
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(e) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Real Property Owned
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(s) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Records
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Refineries
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Restricted Asset
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Restricted Liability
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Restriction
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.7(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Retirement Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(d) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Service Stations
 
"" shall mean those portions of shut down refineries of Ashland that are operating as terminals and are being leased to the Company pursuant to the Ashland Lease Agreements.
Ashland Shut-Down Refinery Assets
 
"" shall mean the Ashland Designated Sublease Agreements and the Ashland Other Sublease Agreements.
Ashland Sublease Agreements
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Subsidiaries
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.10 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Subsidiaries Interests
 
"" shall mean the Ashland Supplier Cooperation Agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit S to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Supplier Cooperation Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(b) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Terminals
 
"" shall mean the Ashland Trademark License Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit J-2 to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Trademark License Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Transferred Assets
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Transferred Employees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Transferring Affiliates
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.11 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Transferring Affiliate Interests
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Transferring Entities
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.14 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland VEBA
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(g) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Working Capital Shortfall
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland's Adjusted Capital Expenditures
 
"" shall mean that portion of Ashland's business, tangible assets, intangible assets, rights, contracts, permits, licenses and other rights which comprise Ashland's petroleum supply, refining, marketing and transportation business (excluding the Ashland Excluded Assets and Ashland Excluded Liabilities).
Ashland's Business
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland's Target Capital Expenditures
 
"" shall mean with respect to an Environmental Loss, that the Indemnified Party has provided written notice to the Indemnifying Party either of (i) its receipt of written notice, including letters of inquiry, requests for information or other investigatory inquiries, from a Governmental Authority relating to such Environmental Loss or (ii) the existence of facts, conditions or circumstances from which the Indemnified Party has reasonably concluded, based on an opinion of
Asserted
 
counsel delivered at any time after the Closing Date to such Indemnified Party, that an Environmental Loss may result.
 
"" shall mean the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement dated as of December 12, 1997, among Marathon, Ashland and the Company, including any appendices and exhibits to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement and the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letters.
Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter and the Ashland Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter.
Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letters
 
"" shall mean, with respect to Marathon and Ashland, the Marathon Assumed Liabilities and the Ashland Assumed Liabilities, respectively.
Assumed Liabilities
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.3(k) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Bareboat Charter
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.02(a) of the LLC Agreement.
Board of Managers
 
"" shall mean, with respect to Marathon and Ashland, Marathon's Business and Ashland's Business, respectively, and with respect to the Company, the Company's Business.
Business
 
"" shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday on which national banks in New York City, New York are closed for business.
Business Day
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(e) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Capital Expenditure Accounting Firm
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Capital Expenditure Statement
 
"" shall mean any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as a capital lease on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease
 
"" shall mean, with respect to Marathon's Business or Ashland's Business, as the case may be, (i) a Loss, whether or not insured, as a result of any fire, flood, accident, explosion, strike, labor disturbance, riot, act of God or public enemy or other calamity or casualty, unless either such Loss shall have been substantially cured, repaired or restored by such party prior to the Closing Date, or such party shall have otherwise substantially compensated the Company for such Loss, or (ii) that proceedings have been instituted or threatened seeking the condemnation or other taking of a portion of such business in the future.
Casualty or Condemnation Loss
 
"" shall mean the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended.
CERCLA
 
"" shall mean any existing or threatened future claim, demand, suit, action, investigation, proceeding, governmental action or cause of action of any kind or character (in each case, whether civil, criminal, investigative or administrative), known or unknown, under any theory, including those based on theories of contract, tort, statutory liability, strict liability, employer liability, premises liability, products liability, breach of warranty or malpractice.
Claim
 
"" shall mean a committee, consisting of no more than six and no fewer than four qualified representatives, with each of Marathon and Ashland choosing 50% of the representatives, duly formed and constituted as soon as practicable after the Closing Date to consider any matter referred to it pursuant to Section 9.8(c)(iii) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Claims Review Committee
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Closing
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Closing Date
 
"" shall mean the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended, and Sections 601 through 608 of ERISA.
COBRA
 
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
"" shall mean the Shared Services Agreement, the Marathon Pipe Line Operating Agreement, the Crude Oil and NGL Supply Agreement, the Valvoline Lube Oil Supply Agreement, the Ashland Chemical Product Sale Agreement, the Ashland Joint Services Agreement, the Ashland Supplier Cooperation Agreement and the Revolving Credit Agreement.
Commercial Documents
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Commission
 
"" shall mean Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
Company
 
"" shall mean the Company and its Affiliates and their respective employees, officers and directors.
Company Indemnified Persons
 
"" shall mean Marathon's Business and Ashland's Business to be conducted by the Company and its subsidiaries after the Closing.
Company's Business
 
"" shall mean the Confidentiality Agreement dated December 13, 1996 between Marathon and Ashland.
Confidentiality Agreement
 
"" shall mean contracts, leases, licenses, indentures, agreements, purchase orders, commitments and all other legally binding arrangements, whether oral or written, express or implied.
Contracts
 
"" shall mean the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through ownership of voting securities or general partnership or managing member interests, by contract or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a Person shall be deemed to control any other Person in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the ownership interests.
Control
 
"" shall mean the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement, the Marathon Quitclaim Deeds, the Ashland Quitclaim Deeds, the Marathon General Assignment and Assumption Agreement, the Ashland General Assignment and Assumption Agreement, the Marathon Intellectual Property License Agreement, the Ashland Intellectual Property License Agreement, the Marathon Trademark License Agreement, the Ashland Trademark License Agreement, the Marathon Lease Agreements, the Ashland Lease Agreements, the Marathon Sublease Agreements and the Ashland Sublease Agreements and related conveyancing documents pursuant to which Transferred Assets are transferred to the Company and its subsidiaries.
Conveyance Documents
 
"" shall mean the Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids Supply Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit R to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Crude Oil and NGL Supply Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Cumene Project
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Cumene Project 1997 Budget Amount
 
"" shall mean the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, as in effect and amended from time to time, or any successor statute.
Delaware Act
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Demand Registration
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Confidentiality Agreement.
Designated Persons
 
"" shall mean the Master Formation Agreement Disclosure Letters, the Parent Agreement Disclosure Letter, the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letters and the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement Disclosure Letter.
Disclosure Letters
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Appendix B to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement and Appendix B to the Master Formation Agreement.
Dispute
 
"" shall mean the United States Department of Justice.
DOJ
 
"" shall mean all pension, retirement, profit-sharing, medical, vacation, hospitalization, vision, dental, health, life, severance or termination of employment plans, including any "employee benefit plan" as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA.
Employee Benefit Plans
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1(b) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Employer Company
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Employment Transfer Date
 
"" shall mean Emro Marketing Company.
Emro
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.11 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Emro Savings Plan
 
"" shall mean (a) any release, discharge or disposal of any Hazardous Substance into or onto groundwater, surface water or soil at, from, to or under any of the Marathon Real Property Owned or Marathon Real Property Leased or any of the Ashland Real Property Owned or Ashland Real Property Leased or (b) any transportation, treatment, recycling, storage, discharge or disposal by, at or to any facility owned or operated by another party, including any facility leased by either Marathon or Ashland or any of their respective Affiliates or predecessors or the Company or any of its Affiliates of any Hazardous Substance that (i) was shipped from or disposed of on, at or under any of the properties or facilities that are or have been owned, operated or used by either Marathon or Ashland or any of their respective Affiliates or predecessors or the Company or its Affiliates or (ii) arose from the operations of either Marathon or Ashland or any of their respective Affiliates or predecessors or the Company or its Affiliates.
Environmental Contamination
 
"" shall mean any Applicable Law relating to (a) the protection of (i) the environment or (ii) the public welfare from actual or potential exposure (or the effects of exposure) to any actual or potential release, discharge, disposal or emission (whether past or present) of any Hazardous Substance or (b) the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, labeling, storage, disposal, transport or handling of any Hazardous Substance.
Environmental Law
 
"" shall mean any Loss arising out of any Environmental Contamination or any Environmental Violation or a combination of both. Environmental Loss specifically includes all costs incurred to install new improvements or make repairs or alterations to prevent the continuation of any Environmental Contamination or to remedy noncompliance with any Environmental Law and, in the case of any Special Environmental Projects, shall include the reasonable hourly costs of Company facility personnel to the extent dedicated to Remediation Activities or other activity directly related to such Special Environmental Projects. Environmental Loss specifically does not include any Claim brought by a Person other than a Governmental Authority seeking damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, penalties, compensation or injunctive relief resulting from the existence or release of, or exposure to, Hazardous Substances except where such Claim is brought as a citizen's suit in which no monetary damages are sought for the account of such Person
Environmental Loss
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Loss under CERCLA or any comparable state Environmental Law that arises out of, is based on or is in connection with the disposal by Marathon or Ashland of Hazardous Substances at a location other than a property included in the Transferred Assets shall be treated as a Marathon Excluded Liability or an Ashland Excluded Liability, as the case may be. All Environmental Losses arising from the same event, condition or set of circumstances at a particular facility shall be considered as an individual Environmental Loss for purposes of determining the applicability of the Individual Threshold Amount.
 
"" shall mean any notice of violation, directive, instruction, judgment, order or similar mandate from any Governmental Authority directing, ordering or requiring a correction of any Environmental Contamination or Environmental Violation, or any related Remediation Activities.
Environmental Requirement
 
"" shall mean any violation of any Environmental Law, excluding, however, any such violation related to Environmental Contamination.
Environmental Violation
 
"" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
 
"" shall mean with respect to any Person any trade or business, whether or not incorporated, which together with such Person would be deemed a "single employer" within the meaning of Section 414(b), (c) or (m) of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Exchange Act
 
"" shall mean (a) an Environmental Loss arising from an Environmental Violation or Environmental Contamination in which (i) the amount in controversy could reasonably be expected to exceed $15,000,000; (ii) the Company has Asserted a Claim for indemnity under either Section 9.1(c) or Section 9.2(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement; and (iii) the Indemnifying Party has a prior course of dealing with the Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over the matter or (b) a facility-wide application of the corrective action requirements of Sections 3004(u) and (v) of RCRA to a refinery included in the Transferred Assets.
Extraordinary Environmental Loss
 
"" shall mean the three-month period ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each Fiscal Year.
Fiscal Quarter
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.05 of the LLC Agreement.
Fiscal Year
 
"" shall mean the United States Federal Trade Commission.
FTC
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Former Marathon Plan Participants
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.7(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Freedom Employees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.7(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Freedom Pension Plan
 
"" shall mean (a) with respect to Marathon's Business, an effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of Marathon's Business which results in a Loss of $80,000,000 or more, or, if such Loss is not susceptible to being measured in monetary terms, is otherwise fundamentally adverse to Marathon's Business, and in any event includes a shutdown by a Governmental Authority of any Marathon Refinery or Major Unit thereof contained within the Marathon Transferred Assets, (b) with respect to Ashland's Business, an effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of Ashland's Business which results in a Loss of $50,000,000 or more, or, if such Loss is not susceptible to being measured in monetary terms, is otherwise fundamentally adverse to Ashland's Business, and in any event includes a shutdown by a Governmental Authority of any Ashland Refinery or Major Unit thereof contained within the Ashland Transferred Assets, and (c) with respect to the Company's Business, an effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of the Company's Business which results, individually or in the aggregate, in a Loss of $65,000,000 or more, or, if such Loss is not susceptible to being measured in monetary terms, is otherwise fundamentally adverse to the Company's Business, and in any event includes a shutdown by a Governmental Authority of any Marathon Refinery or Ashland Refinery or Major Unit thereof contained within either the Marathon Transferred Assets or the Ashland Transferred Assets; provided, however, that any such effect relating to or resulting from any change in the price of petroleum or petroleum byproducts, general economic conditions or local, regional, national or international industry conditions (including changes in financial or market conditions) shall be deemed not to constitute a Fundamental Adverse Effect.
Fundamental Adverse Effect
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the LLC Agreement.
Fuelgas Interest
 
"" shall mean United States generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis.
GAAP
 
"" shall mean any permit, license, franchise, approval, consent, waiver, certification, qualification or other authorization issued, granted, given or otherwise made available by or under the authority of any Governmental Authority or pursuant to any Applicable Law.
Governmental Approval
 
"" shall mean any federal, state, local or foreign government or any provincial, departmental or other political subdivision thereof, or any entity, body or authority exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory, administrative or other governmental functions or any court, department, commission, board, bureau, agency, instrumentality or administrative body of any of the foregoing.
Governmental Authority
 
"" by any Person shall mean any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person or in any manner, providing for the payment of any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person or otherwise protecting the holder of such Indebtedness or other obligation against loss (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, by obtaining letters of credit, by agreement to keep-well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services, or to take-or-pay or otherwise), provided that the term "Guarantee" shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
 
"" shall mean, collectively, any substance which is identified and regulated (or the cleanup of which can be required) under any Environmental Law, and, in addition, any substance which requires special handling, storage or disposal procedures or whose use, handling, storage or disposal of which is in any way regulated, whether now or in the future, in any case under any Applicable Law for the protection of health, safety and the environment. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Hazardous Substances shall include (a) "hazardous wastes," "hazardous substances," "toxic substances," "pollutants," or "contaminants" or other similar identified designations in, or otherwise subject to regulation under, any Environmental Law; and (b) petroleum, refined petroleum products and fractions or by-products thereof, in each case whether in their virgin, used or waste state.
Hazardous Substances
 
"" shall mean the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996.
HIPAA
 
"" shall mean the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976.
HSR Act
 
"" shall mean (a) petty cash, (b) refining, retail outlets and transportation ("RMT") working funds, (c) depository account balances for the RMT business (automated clearinghouse transmissions submitted on the most recent banking day in the applicable jurisdiction immediately preceding the Closing Date or later will be for the account of the Company and its subsidiaries), (d) funds in transit relating to retail outlet deposits, and (e) uncollected funds in lockboxes and lockbox bank accounts for the RMT business (automated clearinghouse transmissions submitted on the most recent banking day in the applicable jurisdiction immediately preceding the Closing Date or later will be for the account of the Company and its subsidiaries).
Incidental Cash
 
"" of any person shall mean, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such person for borrowed money or with respect to deposits or advances of any kind, (b) all obligations of such person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such person upon which interest charges are customarily paid, (d) all obligations of such person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property or assets purchased by such person, (e) all obligations of such person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding trade accounts payable, trade advertising and accrued obligations), (f) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such person, whether or not the obligations secured thereby have been assumed, (g) all Guarantees by such person of Indebtedness of others, (h) all Capital Lease obligations of such person, (i) all
Indebtedness
 
obligations of such person in respect of interest rate protection agreements, foreign currency exchange agreements or other interest or exchange rate hedging arrangements and (j) all obligations of such person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and bankers' acceptances. The Indebtedness of any person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership in which such person is a general partner, other than to the extent that the instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness expressly limits the liability of such person in respect thereof.
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.6(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Indemnified Party
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.6(b) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Indemnifying Party
 
"" shall mean the Insurance Indemnity Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit T to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Indemnity Agreement
 
"" shall mean, with respect to (a) each Environmental Loss related to Environmental Contamination associated with a Marathon Refinery or an Ashland Refinery, $1,000,000, (b) all Environmental Losses related to Environmental Contamination associated with any individual retail gasoline service station included in the Transferred Assets, $100,000, (c) each Environmental Loss related to Environmental Contamination associated with a pipeline, pipeline station or pipeline-related facility (other than a pipeline terminal) included in the Transferred Assets, $100,000; provided, however, that such amount shall be reduced to zero for purposes of each of Section 9.1(c)(ii) and Section 9.2(c)(ii) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement once the aggregate amount of Environmental Losses borne by the Company under each such section with respect to Environmental Contamination associated with pipelines, pipeline stations or pipeline-related facilities (other than pipeline terminals) as a result of application of the Individual Threshold Amount equals $5,000,000, (d) each Environmental Loss related to Environmental Contamination associated with a particular terminal (including a pipeline terminal) included in the Transferred Assets, $100,000, (e) each Environmental Loss related to Environmental Contamination associated with any other property included in the Transferred Assets, $100,000 and (f) each Environmental Violation (including a series of Environmental Violations arising from the same event, condition or set of circumstances), $100,000.
Individual Threshold Amount
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.03 of the LLC Agreement.
Initial Term
 
"" shall mean patents, patent applications (filed, unfiled or being prepared), records of invention, invention disclosures, trademarks (registered or unregistered), trademark applications (filed, unfiled or being prepared), trade names, copyrights (registered or unregistered), copyright applications (filed, unfiled or being prepared), service marks (registered or unregistered), service mark registrations, service mark applications (filed, unfiled or being prepared), all together with the goodwill associated with such marks or names, trade secrets, shop and royalty rights, technology, inventions, knowhow, processes and confidential and proprietary information, including any being developed (including but not limited to designs, manufacturing data, design data, test data,
Intellectual Property
 
operational data, and formulae), whether or not recorded in tangible form through drawings, software, reports, manuals or other tangible expressions, whether or not subject to statutory registration, whether foreign or domestic, and all rights to any of the foregoing.
 
"" shall mean the Joint Defense Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit N to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Joint Defense Agreement
 
"" shall mean (a) with respect to an individual, the actual knowledge of a particular fact or (b) with respect to a Person other than an individual, actual knowledge of a particular fact by an executive officer, division manager, refinery manager or terminal manager or by any individual serving in a similar capacity of such Person or individuals directly reporting to such individuals.
Knowledge
 
"" shall mean obligations, responsibilities and liabilities (whether based in common law or statute or arising under written contract or otherwise, known or unknown, fixed or contingent, real or potential, tangible or intangible, now existing or hereafter arising).
Liabilities
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, encumbrance, charge or security interest in or on such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities.
Lien
 
"" shall mean the Limited Liability Company Agreement of the Company in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A to the Master Formation Agreement.
LLC Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Loaned Employees
 
"" shall mean any loss, cost, Liability or expense, settlement, damage of any kind, judgment, obligation, charge, fee, fine, penalty, court cost and/or attorneys' and administrative fee or disbursement (at all levels, including appellate), but excluding a party's indirect corporate and administrative overhead costs.
Loss
 
"" shall mean the lowest overall obtainable cost to effect Remediation Activities or a correction of an Environmental Violation, as the case may be, taking into consideration the applicable Environmental Requirements or standards under applicable Environmental Laws, the nature and quantity of any Hazardous Substances being remediated, the location of any Environmental Contamination, the potential effect of any Environmental Contamination on health and safety, the difficulty of effecting the Remediation Activities, the expected duration of the Remediation Activities, the enforcement policies of the Governmental Authorities responsible for enforcing the applicable Environmental Requirements and Environmental Laws (subject to Section 9.8(h) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement), the reputation of the contractors available to effect the Remediation Activities and any potentially adverse effect on the operation of the Company's Business as a result of the Remediation Activities.
Lowest Remediation Cost
 
"" of a refinery shall mean a crude unit, a catalytic cracker, a reformer, a wastewater treatment plant and a desulfurization unit.
Major Unit
 
"" shall mean Marathon Oil Company, an Ohio corporation, or its successor.
Marathon
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(g) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Asset Leases
 
"" shall mean the letter from Marathon to Ashland and the Company dated the date of and relating to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Assumed Liabilities
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Audited Financial Statements
 
"" shall mean every Employee Benefit Plan sponsored, maintained, or contributed to, or required to be contributed to, by Marathon, or any ERISA Affiliate of Marathon, for the benefit of current or former employees of Marathon's Business in the United States.
Marathon Benefit Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Commercial Affiliates
 
"" shall mean any consent decrees, consent orders, agreed orders, notices of violation, judgments, decrees or similar orders or obligations entered into prior to the Closing Date or relating to any investigations of which Marathon had received notice from the appropriate Governmental Authority prior to the Closing Date.
Marathon Consent Decrees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(o) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Contracts
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Sublease Agreements in substantially the forms attached as Exhibit E to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Designated Sublease Agreements
 
"" shall mean any Environmental Contamination associated with, or discovered as part of, Marathon's 1998 underground storage tank upgrade program at the Marathon Service Stations set forth on Schedule 9.1(c) to the Marathon Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter under the heading "Marathon Designated UST Environmental Contamination."
Marathon Designated UST Environmental Contamination
 
"" shall mean any Environmental Loss to the extent arising out of, based on, or occurring in connection with Marathon's Business prior to Closing or related to the
Marathon Environmental Loss
 
ownership, use, operation or maintenance of, or related to the reporting practices associated with, the Marathon Transferred Assets prior to Closing, whether or not Asserted prior to Closing.
 
"" shall mean the amount owed for receipts by Marathon's Business of (i) Marathon and its Affiliates' equity crude oil with payment on the 20th day of the month following receipt and (ii) Marathon and its Affiliates' equity natural gas liquids with payment on the 10th day following receipt.
Marathon Equity Crude Payables
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Excluded Assets
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.4 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Excluded Liabilities
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(i) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Excluded Taxes
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Financial Statements
 
"" shall mean the General Assignment and Assumption Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon General Assignment and Assumption Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of USX dated September 1, 1996.
Marathon Group
 
"" shall mean the USX-Marathon Group Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share, of USX.
Marathon Group Stock
 
"" shall mean Marathon and its Affiliates and their respective employees, officers and directors.
Marathon Indemnified Persons
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.8 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Information Package
 
"" shall mean the Intellectual Property License Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C-1 to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Intellectual Property License Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.6(b) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Joint Contracts
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.6(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Joint Permits
 
"" shall mean the Lease Agreements in substantially the forms attached as Exhibit D to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Lease Agreements
 
"" shall mean the letter from Marathon to Ashland dated the date of and relating to the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Master Formation Agreement Disclosure Letter
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.9 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Material Contracts
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.3 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Material Permits
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Marathon Environmental Loss, Remediation Activities that either were commenced prior to Closing or relate to any investigation of which Marathon had received notice from the appropriate Governmental Authority prior to Closing.
Marathon Ongoing Remediation
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Sublease Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit F to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Other Sublease Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(h) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Other Real Property Rights
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(p) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Permits
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Pension Transfer Date
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(j) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Personal Property Leases
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(i) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Personal Property Owned
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Pipelines
 
"" shall mean Marathon Pipe Line Company.
Marathon Pipe Line
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Pipe Line Operating Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit G to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Pipe Line Operating Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.10(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Proprietary Rights
 
"" shall mean the Quitclaim Deeds in substantially the forms attached as Exhibit A to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Quitclaim Deeds
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(f) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Real Property Leases
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(f) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Real Property Leased
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(e) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Real Property Owned
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(s) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Records
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Refineries
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.6(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Restricted Asset
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.6(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Restricted Liability
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.6(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Restriction
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Retirement Plan
 
"" shall mean the unaudited balance sheet of the Marathon Group appearing in the Marathon September 30, 1997 Financial Statements.
Marathon September 30, 1997 Balance Sheet
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon September 30, 1997 Financial Statements
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(d) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Service Stations
 
"" shall mean those portions of shut down refineries of Marathon that are operating as terminals and are being leased to the Company pursuant to the Marathon Lease Agreements.
Marathon Shut-Down Refinery Assets
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Designated Sublease Agreements and the Marathon Other Sublease Agreement.
Marathon Sublease Agreements
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Subsidiaries
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.10 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Subsidiaries Interests
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Terminals
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.10 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Thrift Plan
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Trademark License Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C-2 to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Trademark License Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Transferred Assets
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Transferred Employees
 
"" shall mean, collectively, the Marathon Real Property Owned and the Marathon Real Property Leased.
Marathon Transferred Real Property
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.11 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Transferring Affiliate Interests
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Transferring Affiliates
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Transferring Entities
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(g) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Working Capital Shortfall
 
"" shall mean that portion of Marathon's business, tangible assets, intangible assets, rights, contracts, permits, licenses and other rights which comprise Marathon's petroleum supply, refining, marketing and transportation business (excluding the Marathon Excluded Assets and the Marathon Excluded Liabilities).
Marathon's Business
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon's Target Capital Expenditures
 
"" shall mean the Master Formation Agreement, dated as of December 12, 1997, between Marathon and Ashland, including any appendices and exhibits to the Master Formation Agreement and the schedules to the Master Formation Agreement Disclosure Letters.
Master Formation Agreement
 
"" shall mean an effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of Marathon's Business, Ashland's Business or the Company's Business which results in a Loss of $2,000,000 or more, or, if such Loss is not susceptible to being measured in monetary terms, is otherwise materially adverse to Marathon's Business, Ashland's Business or the Company's Business, as the case may be; provided that any such effect relating to or resulting from any change in the price of petroleum or petroleum byproducts, general economic conditions or local, regional, national or international industry conditions (including changes in financial or market conditions) shall be deemed not to constitute a Material Adverse Effect.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" shall mean Marathon and Ashland and any persons hereafter admitted as additional or substitute members of the Company pursuant to the LLC Agreement.
Members
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Member at any time, the limited liability company interest of such Member in the Company at such time, including the right of such Member to any and all benefits to which a Member may be entitled as provided in the LLC Agreement, together with the obligations of such Member to comply with all the terms and provisions of the LLC Agreement.
Membership Interest
 
"" shall mean The Bluegrass Funding, Inc. Master Lease Program and The Fayette Funding Limited Partnership Master Lease Program, collectively.
Merrill Lynch Master Lease Program
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(c) of the Master Formation Agreement.
Mutualized Formation Costs
 
"" shall mean an Environmental Loss arising from any new application after the Closing of the corrective action requirements of Section 3004(u) and (v) of RCRA.
New RCRA Environmental Loss
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Non-Retail DB Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.8 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Northwestern Refinery Pension Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(d) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Notice of Capital Expenditure Disagreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(d) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Notice of Working Capital Disagreement
 
"" shall mean Oil, Chemical & Atomic Workers International Union.
OCAW
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Offering Memorandum
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.04(a) of the LLC Agreement.
Offer Notice
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(b) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Opening Balance Sheet
 
"" shall mean the Parent Agreement, dated as of December 12, 1997, among USX, Marathon and Ashland, including any exhibit to the Parent Agreement.
Parent Agreement
 
"" shall mean the letter from USX to Ashland dated the date of and relating to the Parent Agreement.
Parent Agreement Disclosure Letter
 
"" shall mean the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
PBO
 
"" shall mean every benefit plan subject to Title IV of ERISA or the minimum funding requirements of Section 302 of ERISA.
Pension Benefit Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.01 of the LLC Agreement.
Percentage Interest
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.12 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Permian Plans
 
"" shall mean licenses, permits, registrations, approvals and franchises issued by any Governmental Authority.
Permits
 
"" shall mean (a) Liens for current taxes, assessments, governmental charges or levies not yet due; (b) workers' or unemployment compensation Liens arising in the ordinary course of business; (c) mechanic's, materialman's, supplier's, vendor's, garnishment or similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business for amounts not yet due; (d) security interests, pledges, Liens or other charges or encumbrances as may have arisen in the ordinary course of business, none of which individually or in the aggregate are material to the ownership, use or operation of the Marathon Transferred Assets or the Ashland Transferred Assets, as the case may be; (e) any state of facts which an accurate survey would show which does not materially detract from the value of or materially interfere with the use and operation of the Marathon Transferred Assets or the Ashland Transferred Assets, as the case may be; (f) any Liens, easements, rights-of-way, restrictions, rights, leases and other encumbrances affecting title thereto, whether or not of record, which do not materially detract from the value of or materially interfere with the use and operation of the Marathon Transferred Assets or the Ashland Transferred Assets, as the case may be; (g) legal highways, zoning and building laws, ordinances or regulations; (h) any liens for real estate Taxes which are not yet due and payable; and (i) except with respect to Permitted Encumbrances on the Marathon Refineries or the Ashland Refineries, Liens, if any, that do not have or would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Marathon's Business or Ashland's Business, as the case may be.
Permitted Encumbrances
 
"" or "" shall mean any natural person, trust, estate, unincorporated organization, firm, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, joint stock company, limited liability company or Governmental Authority, whether acting in an individual, fiduciary or other capacity.
Person
person
 
"" shall mean machinery and equipment, including tanks, pumps and other containers; furniture and fixtures; tools; leasehold improvements; vessels, barges and other marine transportation equipment; railcars, trucks and automobiles; computing and telecommunications equipment; and other items of tangible personal property (and interests in any of the foregoing).
Personal Property
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.06(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
PMRP
 
"" shall mean any Tax period (or portion thereof) ending on or before the close of business on the Closing Date.
Pre-Closing Tax Period
 
"" shall mean the prime rate per annum established by Citibank, N.A. or if Citibank, N.A. no longer establishes a prime rate for any reason, the prime rate per annum established by the largest U.S. bank measured by deposits from time to time as its base rate on corporate loans, automatically fluctuating upward or downward with each announcement of such prime rate.
Prime Rate
 
"" shall mean the Procedures for Dispute Resolution in substantially the form attached as Appendix B to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement, Appendix B to the Master Formation Agreement and Appendix B to the LLC Agreement.
Procedures for Dispute Resolution
 
"" shall mean the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B to the Master Formation Agreement.
Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement
 
"" shall mean the letters from USX, Marathon and Ashland, respectively, dated the date of and relating to the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement Disclosure Letters
 
"" shall mean the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended.
RCRA
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(g) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Reasonable Requested Action
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Registration Statement
 
"" shall mean (a) GAAP, (b) any pending Financial Accounting Standards Board exposure drafts or Emerging Issue Task Force minutes, (c) any relevant official pronouncement, release or staff accounting bulletin issued by the Commission, (d) any formal advice or statement by the Commission that it questions the ability of the parties to treat the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as a purchase by Marathon of Ashland's Business for accounting purposes or the ability of Marathon to consolidate the Company's Business in its financial statements or (e) if any other person has received formal advice, comment letter or a statement from the Commission that it questions the ability of such person to use purchase or consolidation accounting with respect to a similar transaction and such formal advice or statement leads Price Waterhouse to believe that the ability of Marathon and Ashland to treat the transactions contemplated by the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement as a purchase by Marathon of Ashland's Business for accounting purposes or the ability of Marathon to consolidate the Company's Business in its financial statements may be questioned or impaired.
Relevant Accounting Factors
 
"" shall mean any testing, investigation, assessment, cleanup, removal, response, remediation or other similar activities undertaken in connection with any Environmental Loss.
Remediation Activities
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.01 of the LLC Agreement.
Representative
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(g) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Requested Action
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.7(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Retirement Pension Transfer Date
 
"" shall mean the Revolving Credit Agreement among Marathon, Ashland and the Company in substantially the form attached as Exhibit V to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Revolving Credit Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Securities Act
 
"" shall mean the Shared Services Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit U to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Shared Services Agreement
 
"" shall mean the projects listed on Schedule 7.2(k) to the Ashland Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter.
Special Environmental Projects
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Special Termination Price
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Special Termination Right
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Sublease Agreements and the Ashland Sublease Agreements.
Sublease Agreements
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any person (herein referred to as the ""), any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association or other business entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or more than 50% of the general partner interests are, at the time any determination is being made, owned, controlled or held, or (b) that is, at the time any determination is made, otherwise controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
subsidiary
parent
 
"" shall mean the SuperAmerica division of Ashland.
SuperAmerica
 
"" shall mean any and all national, federal, state, provincial or local income, gross receipts, license, payroll, employment, excise, severance, stamp, occupation, premium, windfall profits, environmental, customs duties, capital stock, franchise, profits, withholding, social security (or similar), unemployment, disability, assets, real property, personal property, sales, use, transfer, registration, value added, alternative or add-on, minimum, estimated or other tax of any kind whatsoever, including any interest, penalty or addition thereto, whether disputed or not.
Tax
 
"" shall mean the amount of the reduction in an indemnified party's liability for Taxes (including reductions in Taxes attributable, in whole or in part, to positive basis adjustments) realized as a result of the payment or accrual of any loss, expense or Tax.
Tax Benefit
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.9(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Teamster Member Employees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.9(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Teamsters Pension Fund
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.03 of the LLC Agreement.
Term of the Company
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Environmental Requirement (or discrete portion thereof) relating to Environmental Contamination, the earlier to occur of (a) the receipt by the Company, Marathon or Ashland, as applicable, of a no further action letter, or the substantial equivalent thereof, from the appropriate Governmental Authority or (b) the fifth anniversary date of the completion of Remediation Activities (which, for purposes of this definition, shall not include groundwater monitoring) undertaken as a result of or in connection with such Environmental Requirement (or discrete portion thereof) if during such five-year period no new Environmental Requirement relating to such Environmental Contamination (or discrete portion thereof) has been issued by an appropriate Governmental Authority.
Termination Event
 
"" shall mean a Claim that is not a Claim by Marathon, USX, Ashland, the Company or any of their Affiliates for its own Losses.
Third Party Claim
 
"" shall mean (i) the First Stage Throughput and Deficiency Agreement dated as of December 1, 1977, as amended by the First Amendment dated as of March 27, 1986, the Second Amendment dated as of January 1, 1989 and the Third Amendment dated as of September 11, 1991, among Ashland Inc. (formerly Ashland Oil, Inc.), Marathon Oil Company, Murphy Oil Corporation, Shell Oil Company, Texaco Inc. and LOOP LLC (formerly LOOP Inc.), (ii) the Initial Facility Throughput and Deficiency Agreement dated as of March 1, 1979, as amended by the First Amendment dated as of January 1, 1989, among Ashland Inc. (formerly Ashland Oil Inc.), Marathon Oil Company, Texaco Inc., Shell Oil Company and LOCAP Inc., and (iii) the Adjustment Agreement dated March 1, 1979, as amended by the First Amendment dated as of January 1, 1989, among Ashland Inc. (formerly Ashland Oil Inc.), Marathon Oil Company, Texaco Inc., Shell Oil Company and LOCAP Inc.
Throughput and Deficiency Agreements
 
"" shall mean the collective transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents.
Transaction
 
"" shall mean the Conveyance Documents, the Master Formation Agreement, the Parent Agreement, the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement, the LLC Agreement, the Indemnity Agreement and the Joint Defense Agreement.
Transaction Documents
 
"" shall mean any sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition, whether by merger or otherwise. When used as a verb, the term "Transfer" shall have a correlative meaning.
Transfer
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.4 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Transfer Taxes
 
"" shall mean, with respect to Marathon and Ashland, the Marathon Transferred Assets and the Ashland Transferred Assets, respectively.
Transferred Assets
 
"" shall mean any insurance policy other than an insurance policy which is a captive insurance policy, a fronting insurance policy or an insurance policy for which the insured party is required to indemnify the insurer.
True Insurance Policy
 
"" shall mean USX Corporation, a Delaware corporation, any successor ultimate parent corporation of Marathon or, in the event Marathon is not a subsidiary of any other person, Marathon.
USX
 
"" shall mean the Valvoline Lube Oil Supply Agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit O to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Valvoline Lube Oil Supply Agreement
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any person (herein referred to as the ""), any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association or other business entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing 100% of the equity or 100% of the ordinary voting power or 100% of the general partner interests are, at the time any determination is being made, owned, controlled or held, or (b) that is, at the time any determination is made, otherwise controlled, entirely by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
parent
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(e) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Working Capital Accounting Firm
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(d) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Working Capital Deficiency Materiality Threshold
 
APPENDIX B
 
 
For purposes of this Appendix, the term "Agreement" refers to any Transaction Document that incorporates the terms hereof by reference and the term "party" or "parties" refers to the party or parties to such Agreement. All other terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Agreement.
 
Except as otherwise expressly set forth in the Agreement, all controversies, claims or disputes that arise out of or relate to the Agreement or the construction, interpretation, performance, breach, termination, enforceability or validity of the Agreement, or the commercial, economic or other relationship of the parties thereto, whether such claim is based on rights, privileges or interests recognized by or based upon statute, contract, tort, common law or otherwise and whether such claim existed prior to or arises on or after the date of the Agreement (a "") shall be resolved in accordance with the provisions of this Appendix. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Appendix, nothing in this Appendix shall limit the ability of the directors and officers of a party to the Agreement from communicating directly with the directors and officers of any other party thereto or its Affiliates.
Section 1. General.
Dispute
 
A party may give another party written notice (a "") of any Dispute which has not been resolved in the normal course of business. Within five Business Days after delivery of the Dispute Notice, the receiving party shall submit to the other party a written response (the ""). The Dispute Notice and the Response shall each include (i) a statement setting forth the position of the party giving such notice, a summary of the arguments supporting such position and, if applicable, the relief sought and (ii) in the event that the Dispute Notice is delivered at or after the Closing, the name and title of a senior manager of such party who has authority to settle the Dispute and will be responsible for the negotiations related to the settlement of the Dispute (the "").
Section 2. Dispute Notice and Response.
Dispute Notice
Response
Senior Manager
 
Section 3. Pre-Closing Negotiation Between Chief Executive Officers.
 
a. If a Dispute Notice is delivered prior to the Closing, within 10 Business Days after delivery of the Response provided for in Section 2, the Chief Executive Officers of both parties shall meet or communicate by telephone at a mutually acceptable time and place, and thereafter as often as they reasonably deem necessary, and shall negotiate in good faith to attempt to resolve the Dispute that is the subject of such Dispute Notice. If such Dispute has not been resolved within 10 Business Days after the delivery of the Response as provided for in Section 2, then each party shall be permitted to take such actions at law or in equity as it is otherwise permitted to take or as may be available under Applicable Law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the Closing occurs
 
following delivery of such Dispute Notice and the Dispute has not been resolved prior to Closing, then to the extent such Dispute has not been resolved within 10 Business Days after delivery of the Response as provided in Section 2, either party may refer the Dispute to mediation in accordance with Section 6, or, if not so referred to mediation within the five Business Day period provided in Section 6, the Dispute shall be referred to arbitration in accordance with Section 7.
 
b. All negotiations between the Chief Executive Officers pursuant to this Section 3 shall be treated as compromise and settlement negotiations. Nothing said or disclosed, nor any document produced, in the course of such negotiations which is not otherwise independently discoverable shall be offered or received as evidence or used for impeachment or for any other purpose in any current or future arbitration or litigation.
 
Section 4. Post-Closing Negotiation Between Senior Managers.
 
a. If a Dispute Notice is delivered at or after the Closing, within 10 days after delivery of the Response provided for in Section 2, the Senior Managers of both parties shall meet or communicate by telephone at a mutually acceptable time and place, and thereafter as often as they reasonably deem necessary, and shall negotiate in good faith to attempt to resolve the Dispute that is the subject of such Dispute Notice. If such Dispute has not been resolved within 30 days after delivery of the Dispute Notice, then the parties shall attempt to settle the Dispute pursuant to Section 5.
 
b. All negotiations between the Senior Managers pursuant to this Section 4 shall be treated as compromise and settlement negotiations. Nothing said or disclosed, nor any document produced, in the course of such negotiations which is not otherwise independently discoverable shall be offered or received as evidence or used for impeachment or for any other purpose in any current or future arbitration or litigation.
 
Section 5. Post-Closing Negotiation Between Chief Executive Officers.
 
a. If the Dispute Notice is delivered at or after the Closing and the Dispute has not been resolved by negotiation between the Senior Managers pursuant to Section 4, then within 10 Business Days after the expiration of the 30-day period provided in Section 4, the respective Chief Executive Officers of both parties shall meet or communicate by telephone at a mutually acceptable time and place, and thereafter as often as they reasonably deem necessary, and shall negotiate in good faith to attempt to resolve the Dispute that is the subject of such Dispute Notice. If such Dispute has not been resolved within 20 Business Days after the expiration of the 30-day period provided in Section 4, then either party may refer the Dispute to mediation in accordance with Section 6, or, if not so referred to mediation within the five Business Day period provided in Section 6, the Dispute shall be referred to arbitration in accordance with Section 7.
 
b. All negotiations between the Chief Executive Officers pursuant to this Section 5 shall be treated as compromise and settlement negotiations. Nothing said or disclosed, nor any document
 
produced, in the course of such negotiations which is not otherwise independently discoverable shall be offered or received as evidence or used for impeachment or for any other purpose in any current or future arbitration or litigation.
 
Section 6. Mediation.
 
a. If the Dispute Notice is delivered at or after the Closing and the Dispute has not been resolved by negotiation between the Senior Managers pursuant to Section 4 or the Chief Executive Officers pursuant to Section 5, then within five Business Days after the expiration of such 20 Business Day period provided in Section 5, any party may initiate mediation hereunder by giving a notice of mediation (a "") to any other party. Such Mediation Notice shall include an undertaking by the party delivering such Mediation Notice to pay all costs and expenses of the mediator chosen or appointed pursuant to this Section 6. If neither party has given a Mediation Notice to the other party within such five Business Day period, then the Dispute shall be referred to arbitration in accordance with Section 7.
Mediation Notice
 
b. . The mediator shall be jointly appointed by the parties. The parties intend that the mediator be independent and impartial. To this end, the mediator shall disclose to the parties any professional or social relationships, present or past, with any party (or its Affiliates), including any party's (or its Affiliates') directors, officers and supervisory personnel and counsel.
Selection of Mediator
 
c. . Any mediation pursuant to this Section 6 shall be conducted in Columbus, Ohio, unless otherwise agreed.
Location
 
d. . The Model ADR Procedures for Mediation of Business Disputes of the Center for Public Resources, Inc., either as written or as modified by mutual agreement of the parties, shall govern any non-binding mediation pursuant to this Section 6.
Governing Law
 
e. .
Mediation Process
 
(1) All mediation pursuant to this Section 6 shall be treated as compromise and settlement negotiations. Nothing said or disclosed, nor any document produced, in the course of such non-binding mediation which is not otherwise independently discoverable shall be offered or received as evidence or used for impeachment or for any other purpose in any current or future arbitration or litigation.
 
(2) In the mediation, each party shall be represented by an executive officer. No party shall be obligated to attend mediation proceedings for more than an aggregate of five days.
 
(3) If a Dispute has not been resolved within 10 Business Days after the delivery of the Mediation Notice, then the Dispute shall be referred to arbitration in accordance with Section 7.
 
Section 7. Arbitration.
 
a. If the Dispute Notice is delivered at or after the Closing and the Dispute has not been resolved by negotiation between the Senior Managers pursuant to Section 4, by negotiation between the Chief Executive Officers pursuant to Section 5, or by mediation pursuant to Section 6 (or, if neither party delivered a mediation notice to the other party within the five Business Day period provided in Section 6, by the expiration of such five Business Day period), then any party may initiate an arbitration hereunder by giving a notice of arbitration (the "") to any other party. If the parties cannot agree on a procedure to be used to arbitrate the controversy within 10 days of receipt by the other party of the Arbitration Notice, then the controversy shall be finally resolved by arbitration as provided in this Section 7.
Commencement of Arbitration.
Arbitration Notice
 
b. . Any arbitration pursuant to this Section 7 shall be conducted in Columbus, Ohio, unless otherwise agreed.
Location
 
c. Section 2 of the Federal Arbitration Act (Title 9, U.S.C., Section 1, ) shall control the validity of any arbitration proceeding pursuant to this Section 7. All other substantive issues in any arbitration hereunder shall be resolved by application of the provisions of the Agreement in accordance with the governing law provisions thereof.
Governing Law.
et seq.
 
d. . The Arbitration Notice shall contain a statement of any controversies in sufficient detail to apprise the other parties of (i) the nature and scope of the controversies, (ii) the initiating party's position and (iii) the relief sought. Each other party shall, within a period of 30 days after delivery of the Arbitration Notice, or within such other period of time as the parties may agree, deliver its answer to the initiating party (the ""), which shall contain its statement of the controversy, its positions and any counterclaims or other determinations which it seeks. The initiating party shall then have 30 days, or such other period of time as the parties may agree, to deliver its reply (the "") to any counterclaim or request for determination raised in the Arbitration Answer. No amendments to the Arbitration Notice, Arbitration Answer or Arbitration Reply shall be permitted without the consent of the other parties or of the Arbitration Tribunal or Sole Arbitrator, as applicable. Such Arbitration Notice, Arbitration Answer and Arbitration Reply and all written notifications and other documents provided for in this Section 7 or in any rules or orders or directions issued by the Arbitration Tribunal or Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, to be delivered to a party or the Arbitration Tribunal or Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall be delivered in person against written receipt or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested.
Framing of Issues
Arbitration Answer
Arbitration Reply
 
e. . The parties may agree in writing within 20 days after delivery of the Arbitration Notice that the arbitration proceedings shall be by
Choice of Sole Arbitrator or Arbitration Tribunal
 
and before a Sole Arbitrator appointed in accordance with Section 7(f) and conducted in accordance with Section 7(h) or other procedures acceptable to them. Failing such agreement, the arbitration proceedings shall be by and before an Arbitration Tribunal appointed in accordance with Section 7(g) and conducted in accordance with Section 7(h) or other procedures acceptable to them.
 
f.
Appointment of Sole Arbitrator.
 
(1) If so agreed pursuant to Section 7(e) or as provided in the Agreement, the arbitration proceedings shall be conducted by and before a single arbitrator (the ""). Such Arbitrator shall be jointly appointed by the parties, who shall jointly obtain acceptance of his or her appointment within a period of 30 days after the date of delivery of the Arbitration Notice. Failing such joint appointment and its acceptance, either party may request the Center for Public Resources, acting in the capacity of the Appointing Authority hereunder (the "") to make the appointment and obtain his or her acceptance (which appointment, subject to Section 7(f)(4), shall be binding upon the parties to the arbitration).
Sole Arbitrator
Appointing Authority
 
(2) If at any time during the course of the arbitration proceedings, the Sole Arbitrator dies, resigns, withdraws, or is removed by the parties pursuant to Section 7(f)(4), such vacancy shall be filled in the same manner and subject to the same requirements as provided in Section 7(f)(1) for the original appointment to that position except as to the period of time specified for such original appointment. If the vacancy is not filled within 30 days after the occurrence of the death, resignation, withdrawal or removal of the Sole Arbitrator, either party may request the Appointing Authority to make the appointment and obtain acceptance. Upon the filling of a vacancy, and after allowing the newly appointed Sole Arbitrator sufficient time to familiarize himself or herself with the submissions and proceedings, the arbitration proceedings shall be continued without rehearing from the point at which the vacancy occurred, unless the parties agree otherwise or the Sole Arbitrator directs otherwise.
 
(3) The parties intend that the Sole Arbitrator be independent and impartial. To this end, the Sole Arbitrator shall disclose to the parties any professional or other social relationships, present or past, with any party (or its Affiliates), including any party's (or its Affiliates') directors, officers and supervisory personnel and counsel.
 
(4) Except as otherwise provided in Section 7(f)(2), the Sole Arbitrator may be removed only by (i) application of either party to, and order of, the Appointing Authority after a showing of lack of independence, partiality, misconduct, incapacity of the Sole Arbitrator for more than 60 days or any other cause likely to impair his or her ability to effectively participate in the arbitration proceedings or render a fair and equitable decision, or (ii) mutual agreement of the parties.
 
g.
Appointment of Arbitration Tribunal.
 
(1) If the parties do not agree within the 20-day period provided in Section 7(e) to have the arbitration proceedings conducted by and before a Sole Arbitrator, then the arbitration proceedings shall be conducted by and before a tribunal composed of three Arbitrators (an "") who are appointed pursuant to this Section 7(g). Each party shall appoint one arbitrator, obtain its appointee's acceptance of such appointment, and deliver written notification of such appointment and acceptance to the other party within 45 days after delivery of the Arbitration Notice. If a party fails for any reason to appoint an arbitrator, obtain acceptance of such appointment and notify the other party in writing within the period provided above, the Appointing Authority, upon written request of either party, shall appoint such arbitrator, obtain acceptance of such appointment and notify the parties in writing of such appointment and acceptance. If the controversy involves more than two parties, a party (and its Affiliates) shall be considered a single party for the purposes of this Section 7(g).
Arbitration Tribunal
 
(2) The two arbitrators appointed pursuant to Section 7(g)(1) shall jointly appoint the third arbitrator (the ""), obtain such appointee's acceptance of such appointment and notify the parties in writing of such appointment and acceptance within 30 days after the appointment and acceptance of the two initial arbitrators. If the appointment and acceptance of the Third Arbitrator and the required notifications are not effected by the other two arbitrators within the 30-day period, then, upon the request of either party, the Appointing Authority shall appoint the Third Arbitrator, obtain acceptance of such appointment and notify the parties and both arbitrators appointed pursuant to Section 7(g)(1) in writing of such appointment and acceptance.
Third Arbitrator
 
(3) The Third Arbitrator shall serve as the Chairman of the Arbitration Tribunal.
 
(4) If at any time a vacancy occurs on the Arbitration Tribunal by reason of death, resignation or withdrawal of an arbitrator or removal of an arbitrator pursuant to Section 7(g)(6), such vacancy shall be filled in the same manner and subject to the same requirements as are provided in Sections 7(g)(1) and 7(g)(2) for the original appointment to that position except as to the periods of time specified for such original appointments. If the vacancy is not filled within 30 days after the occurrence of the death, resignation, withdrawal or removal of the arbitrator, either party may request the Appointing Authority to make the appointment and obtain acceptance. Upon the filling of a vacancy, and after allowing the newly appointed arbitrator sufficient time to familiarize himself or herself with the submissions and proceedings, the arbitration proceedings shall be continued without rehearing from the point at which the vacancy occurred, unless the parties agree otherwise or the Chairman of the Arbitration Tribunal, whether appointed prior to the occurrence of the vacancy or appointed to fill the vacancy, directs otherwise.
 
(5) The parties intend that each of the arbitrators on the Arbitration Tribunal be independent and impartial. To this end, each such arbitrator shall disclose to the parties, and to the other members of the Arbitration Tribunal, any professional or social relationships, present or past, with any party (or its Affiliates), including any party's (or its Affiliates') directors, officers and supervisory personnel and counsel.
 
(6) Any party may challenge in writing the appointment or continued service of any arbitrator on the Arbitration Tribunal for lack of independence, partiality, incapacity of the arbitrator for more than 60 days, or any other cause likely to impair such arbitrator's ability to
 
effectively participate in the arbitration proceedings or render a fair and equitable decision. Where such challenge is made with regard to an arbitrator other than the Third Arbitrator, the Third Arbitrator shall uphold or dismiss the challenge. Where such challenge is made with regard to the Third Arbitrator, the Appointing Authority shall uphold or dismiss the challenge. In the event a challenge is upheld, the arbitrator as to whom the challenge was upheld shall cease to be a member of the Arbitration Tribunal. Furthermore, any arbitrator may be removed upon mutual agreement of the parties.
 
(7) The Arbitration Tribunal in its discretion may appoint a secretary to assist the Arbitration Tribunal in the administrative arrangements for the arbitration proceedings. The Arbitration Tribunal may also employ such stenographic and other assistance as it deems necessary.
 
(8) All decisions or rulings of the Arbitration Tribunal, as well as any interim or final award, shall be pursuant to the majority vote of the three arbitrators comprising the Arbitration Tribunal.
 
h.
Arbitration Procedures.
 
(1) The Arbitration Tribunal or Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall hold a preliminary meeting with the parties at a time and place determined by the Arbitration Tribunal or Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, for the discussion of procedural matters prior to the issuance of rules of procedure or other procedural directives by the Arbitration Tribunal or Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, and for discussion of such other matters as the Arbitration Tribunal or Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, may determine.
 
(2) The procedure to be followed in any arbitration proceedings hereunder shall be as prescribed in this Section 7 and in the rules of procedure which shall be issued by the Arbitration Tribunal or Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, following consultation with the parties. Such rules shall be based on the principle of fairness to both parties, and unless otherwise agreed by the parties shall provide, , for the submission of briefs by the parties, the introduction of documents and the oral testimony of witnesses, cross-examination of witnesses, oral arguments, the closure of the arbitration proceedings and such other matters as the Arbitration Tribunal or Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, may deem appropriate. Further, the Arbitration Tribunal or Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall regulate all matters relating to the conduct of the arbitration proceedings not otherwise provided for. Subject to any contrary rules adopted by the Arbitration Tribunal or Sole Arbitrator, as applicable:
inter alia
 
(A) The party which initiated the Arbitration shall, within 14 days after the date of the Sole Arbitrator's appointment pursuant to Section 7(f) or the appointment of the Arbitration Tribunal pursuant to Section 7(g), as applicable, or within such other period of time as the parties
 
may mutually agree, submit to the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, a written brief in support of its case and the relief or determination it seeks, with a copy to the other party. Each such other party shall, within 21 days after delivery to it of a copy of the initiating party's brief or within such other period of time as the parties may agree, submit to the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, such other party's answering brief in support of its defense, with a copy to the initiating party. Such answering brief shall also state and support any counterclaim or determination of a matter not submitted by the initiating party which such other party seeks. In the event that the answering brief states a counterclaim or request for determination of a matter not submitted by the initiating party, the initiating party may submit, within a period of 21 days after delivery to it of such answering brief, or within such other period of time as the parties may agree, a reply brief stating its defense to such counterclaim or request for determination, with a copy to the other parties.
 
(B) Any brief provided for in Section 7(h)(2)(A) may include documentary evidence and written affidavits. The Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, may invite any other written submissions or documents he or she deems necessary for the proper determination of the arbitration.
 
(C) Copies of documents submitted in a brief shall be deemed authentic unless challenged by a party by written notification to the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, with a copy to the other party. The facts stated in any affidavit submitted in a brief shall be deemed accurate unless similarly challenged. Any such notification of challenge, together with any supporting documents or affidavits and a list of the names and addresses of any witnesses the challenging party will present in support of such challenge, shall be submitted by that party within a period of 30 days after the date of such party's receipt of the document or affidavit being challenged. The party challenging the contents of an affidavit may also include, in its notification, a request that the party which submitted the affidavit or challenging affidavit produce the affiant for cross-examination. Subject to a request to the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, for a protective order, the party which submitted a document or affidavit challenged shall, within a period of 14 days after its receipt of notification of the challenge, submit any documents and a list of the names and addresses of any witnesses it will present to establish the authenticity of a document or the accuracy of the facts stated in an affidavit.
 
(D) An oral hearing shall be held, at a place and time designated by the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, such time to be within a period of 30 days after the date of the submission of the answering brief or, if a reply brief was submitted pursuant to Section 7(h)(2)(A), within 30 days thereafter, or, where objection or challenge was made as provided in Section 7(h)(2)(C), within a period of 14 days after the date of the last submission made pursuant to that Section. At such hearing, the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall permit the submission of further documentation or oral testimony by the parties, including direct examination, cross-examination and redirect examination, relevant to the determination of any challenge to the authenticity of a document or to the accuracy of the facts stated in an affidavit. No oral testimony shall be permitted except as provided in this Section 7 or as permitted by order of the
 
Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable. The Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall, following the submission of any documents and oral testimony, invite each of the parties to make oral arguments in support of its case on the controversy concerning which the initiating party initiated the arbitration and on any counterclaim or other controversy initiated by the other party.
 
(E) Strict rules of evidence shall not apply in any arbitration proceedings conducted pursuant to this Section 7. The parties may offer such evidence as they desire and the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall accept such evidence as its deems relevant to the issue(s) and accord it such weight as the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, deems appropriate. However, no party or witness may be required to waive any privilege recognized under Applicable Law.
 
(F) The parties agree that discovery shall be limited and handled expeditiously. Discovery procedures available in litigation before the courts shall not apply in any arbitration proceedings pursuant to this Section 7. However, each party shall produce relevant and nonprivileged documents or copies thereof requested by the other party in writing. Unless otherwise agreed or ordered by the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, any such request by either party shall be made within 15 days after submission of the brief, document or affidavit submitted earliest which could reasonably have indicated that the documents sought to be produced were relevant, and production shall be made within 10 days of receipt of such request. All disputes regarding discovery shall be resolved promptly by the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable. In the event of a party's failure to produce such documents as provided above, the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall take such failure into consideration in the light of the prevailing circumstances.
 
(G) In the event the Sole Arbitrator or a member of the Arbitration Tribunal, as applicable, becomes incapable of acting for a period of less than 60 days and then resumes his or her duties as Sole Arbitrator or an arbitrator, as applicable, the time periods provided in Sections 7(h)(2)(A), (C), (D) and (F) shall be extended by the number of days during which the Sole Arbitrator or an arbitrator, as applicable, was incapable of acting. In the event the Sole Arbitrator or a member of the Arbitration Tribunal, as applicable, dies or resigns or becomes incapable of acting for a period of at least 60 days, such time periods shall be extended by the number of days between the date of such death, resignation, or commencement of incapacity and the date of the appointment of a substitute arbitrator plus a reasonable period of time (to be mutually agreed upon by the parties or fixed by the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable) for the Sole Arbitrator or arbitrator, as applicable, to familiarize himself or herself with the submissions and proceedings.
 
(H) The arbitration proceedings shall be deemed closed at the conclusion of the oral hearing provided in Section 7(h)(2)(D), except that in the event the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, requests or invites the submission of any further documents or briefs, the proceedings shall be deemed closed upon the submission of such further documents or briefs or
 
upon the expiration of the period set by the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, for such submissions, whichever date is earlier.
 
(I) If requested by any party, the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall keep records of all its proceedings and decisions, and a verbatim record of all oral hearings. Such records shall be available and copies shall be furnished to the parties upon request and reasonable notice by any party to the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable.
 
(J) All awards or portions thereof, whether preliminary or final, shall be in writing signed by the Sole Arbitrator or, in the case of an Arbitration Tribunal, by each arbitrator, and shall state the reasons upon which such are based. In the event that one arbitrator in an Arbitration Tribunal refuses to sign the award or a portion thereof, the two arbitrators forming the majority shall note such refusal in the award or portion thereof. The arbitrator dissenting from an award or portion thereof may issue a dissent from the award or portion thereof in writing, stating the reasons therefor.
 
(K) The Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall use its best efforts to issue its final award or awards, and any dissent therefrom, in any arbitration proceedings conducted pursuant to this Section 7, within a period of 30 days after closure of such arbitration proceedings. Failure of the Arbitration Tribunal or Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, to do so, however, shall not be a basis for challenging the award or awards.
 
i. In the event a party, having been given due notice and opportunity, shall fail or shall refuse to appear or participate in any arbitration proceedings pursuant to this Section 7 or in any stage thereof, or to so appear or participate in accordance with time limits or dates set forth in this Section 7, or in rules of procedure issued pursuant hereto by the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, or other directives issued by the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, the arbitration proceedings shall nevertheless be conducted to conclusion and final award. Any award or awards rendered under such circumstances shall be as valid and enforceable as if both parties had appeared and participated fully at all stages.
Failure to Participate.
 
j. . Subject to any limitations on awards and damages that are expressly set forth in the Agreement, the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall be empowered in an award to deny or grant, in whole or in part, relief of the following types if so requested by a party in the Arbitration Notice, the Arbitration Answer or the Arbitration Reply:
Relief
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall, in a final award, assess, as set forth in Section 7(m), the amount of the costs of the arbitration proceedings.
 
k. . Any award or portion of award rendered, whether final or interim, by the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, in any arbitration proceedings pursuant to this Section 7 shall be binding on the parties, who hereby waive all rights of appeal or challenge except to the extent permitted by Title 9, U.S.C.  10 and 11. The parties further agree that judgment upon any award hereunder may be entered in any of the courts referred to in Section 9.17 of the Agreement (if the Agreement is the Master Formation Agreement), Section 11.15 of the Agreement (if the Agreement is the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement or an Agreement that incorporates by reference the procedures for dispute resolution of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement) or Section 16.09 of the Agreement (if the Agreement is the LLC Agreement), and application may be made by a party to such court or to any court of competent jurisdiction wherever situated for enforcement of such judgment and the entry of whatever orders are necessary for such enforcement.
Finality
 
l. . The parties and the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall treat all aspects of the arbitration proceedings, including without limitation discovery, testimony and other evidence, briefs and the award, as strictly confidential.
Confidentiality
 
m. . Each party shall pay its own costs and expenses. The costs of the arbitration proceedings, including the expenses of the Arbitration Tribunal and its members and secretary, if any, or of the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, and the honoraria of the members of an Arbitration Tribunal and its secretary, or the honorarium of the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall be borne by the parties to the arbitration proceedings in equal shares. The Chairman of the Arbitration Tribunal or the Sole Arbitrator, as applicable, shall notify the parties, from time to time, of the estimated amounts to be advanced by them in equal shares to meet all such anticipated expenses, and each party shall advance its share promptly.
Costs and Expenses
 
Section 8. Disputes; Consent to Jurisdiction.
 
(a) Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Agreement, no party shall be entitled to commence or maintain any action, suit or other proceeding against any other party regarding any Dispute, other than any action, suit or other proceeding (i) to the extent provided in Section 3, (ii) to compel arbitration pursuant to Section 7, (iii) to select an arbitrator or arbitrators pursuant to Section 7 or (iv) to enforce any judgment pursuant to Section 7(k).
 
(b) Section 9.17 of the Agreement (if the Agreement is the Master Formation Agreement), Section 11.15 of the Agreement (if the Agreement is the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement or an Agreement that incorporates by reference the procedures for dispute resolution of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement) or Section 16.09 of the Agreement (if the Agreement is the LLC Agreement) shall apply with respect to any suit, action or proceeding permitted under Section 8(a).
 
 
EXHIBIT A
LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT
 
 
 
The retail business unit of Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC ("MAP"), Speedway SuperAmerica LLC ("SSA"), will include the combined assets of Emro Marketing Company ("Emro") and SuperAmerica Group ("SuperAmerica"). This protocol establishes the plan of integration of Emro and SuperAmerica from the present state of two competing retail organizations to an integrated retail organization.
 
Marathon and Ashland desire to begin realizing the efficiencies and other benefits of the integration of retail operations as soon as possible after the closing of the Joint Venture. However, Marathon and Ashland agree to integrate Emro and SuperAmerica in a deliberate manner, based upon thorough analyses of all relevant information and issues, including impact on the brand equity, operating systems and operating practices (collectively referred to as the "Business Equity") of Emro or SuperAmerica. Such analyses shall be conducted by or at the direction of one or more integration teams, each of which is comprised of members representing both Emro and SuperAmerica (collectively, the "Integration Teams"). Major decisions and actions relative to integration of Emro and SuperAmerica shall be reviewed and approved prior to implementation by the appropriate levels of SSA and MAP executive management and the MAP Board of Managers. An overriding principle of the integration process is to maximize the economic value added to MAP in total.
1. General Principles.
 
The integration process will commence immediately after the Joint Venture closes, and will occur in three general levels as analyses of various functions and aspects of the business are completed:
2. Integration Levels.
 
Level I integration initiatives require little or no analysis to determine best practice, or that create obvious efficiencies, with little or no impact on the Business Equity of Emro or SuperAmerica. Level I initiatives include, but are not limited to, the following:
a. Level I.
 
coordination of the retail pricing of light products between Emro and SuperAmerica (but not major and long-range light product or merchandise pricing philosophy as described in Paragraph 2(c)(iv) below);
(i)
 
purchase of common supplies for consumption and products and services for resale;
(ii)
 
supply of retail locations from various terminals to minimize operating costs to the SSA and MAP;
(iii)
 
coordination of support services and elimination of duplicate services and processes not required to maintain separate operations; and
(iv)
 
establishment of Integration Teams to extend the process of integration and define and analyze the more complex issues.
(v)
 
Level II integration initiatives are relatively more complex and will require more time and effort to gather and analyze relevant information, determine the best practices, and evaluate the potential impact of alternate strategies or actions on the Business Equity of Emro or SuperAmerica. Level II integration initiatives will be prioritized by the Integration Teams and SSA executive management to generate savings as rapidly as possible without adversely impacting the Business Equity of Emro and SuperAmerica. Level II initiatives include, but are not limited to, the following:
b. Level II.
 
Consolidating purchases of items such as pumps, dispensers and operating hardware that may be interchangeable between Emro and SuperAmerica;
(i)
 
Adoption of a unified and coordinated marketing program (i.e., private label applicable category merchandising agreements, etc.) as opportunities are identified and evaluated by the marketing integration team;
(ii)
 
Adoption of common maintenance practices and coordination and integration of maintenance personnel in overlapping areas;
(iii)
 
Internal communication in support of our one-company commitment and vision (All outside product and service provider communications will support this same commitment.);
(iv)
 
Adoption of new common product and services offerings where appropriate;
(v)
 
Further consolidation of support services that SSA and MAP executive management determine will not adversely affect the Business Equity of Emro and SuperAmerica;
(vi)
 
Continued integration of common support services (such as law, accounting, planning and analysis, environmental, health and safety, and security);
(vii)
 
Overall Information Technology strategy (but not store-automation strategy, which is a Level III issue as provided in Paragraph 2(c), below);
(viii)
 
Changing the geography of our present joint territories, e.g., truck stop travel center expansion; and
(ix)
 
Physical facility issues, e.g., size of facilities, common building designs, number of basic designs.
(x)
 
Level III integration initiatives involve complex and strategic issues that may have material impact on the Business Equity of Emro and SuperAmerica. Level III initiatives will require the most time an effort to gather and analyze relevant information, determine the best practices, and evaluate the potential impact of proposed decisions or actions on such Business Equity. Consultants may be used to assist the Integration Teams in quantifying various matters that are not easily quantified, especially those related to differences in Business Equity. Decisions and other actions on Level III initiatives will be made only after a thorough analysis of all relevant information, by super-majority approval of the MAP Board of Managers to the extent and for the time periods provided in the Limited Liability Company Agreement between Marathon and Ashland (the "LLC Agreement"). Level III issues are:
c. Level III.
 
Utilization of the Enon and Lexington facilities, including establishment of a single headquarters location for Speedway SuperAmerica LLC;
(i)
 
Major store staffing and similar employment issues, including any material change in the compensation or benefit packages of the Speedway SuperAmerica LLC unit;
(ii)
 
Branding strategy (e.g., continuing to use the present brand names, combining brands or developing a new brand), including any material change in the brand image of SuperAmerica and Emro stores;
(iii)
 
Any material change in the fundamental business strategies of SuperAmerica and Emro including, but not limited to, major and long-range light-product or merchandise pricing philosophy, in-store merchandising strategy and advertising and promotion practices.
(iv)
 
Future use of the Speedway and SuperAmerica business models in SSA;
(v)
 
Finalizing the retail organization (See discussion in Paragraph 5(a) below);
(vi)
 
Credit card acceptance between Emro and SuperAmerica. More specifically the development of a new common credit card for SSA.
(vii)
 
Evaluation of alternate modes of supplying stores with merchandise through company-owned warehouses or outside suppliers, including an evaluation of SuperAmerica's existing warehousing/distribution processes; and
(viii)
 
Store-automation strategy.
(ix)
 
Provided, however, that until any decision or action by the Board of Managers to the contrary, Emro and SuperAmerica shall continue to do business in accordance with their historical practices.
 
The timeframe for super-majority decisions or actions by the MAP Board of Managers with respect to the issues described in Paragraph 2(c)(i), (ii), (iv) and (vi) only are subject to extension as provided in the LLC Agreement. The integration timetable outlined in (4) below anticipates that all super majority recommendations for all Level III issues will be submitted for action to the Board of Managers by SSA MAP executive management by October 30, 1998, thus permitting the Board of Managers to act on these issues during calendar 1998. Such submissions shall include the business and economic analyses necessary to support the recommended decision or action including but not limited to the risks and
3. Timeframe for Super Majority Decisions.
 
benefits of such decisions and the anticipated impact of such decision or action on the Speedway and SuperAmerica brand images and business models.
 
The integration process will be fluid, but should occur along the following general timeline:
4. Integration Timetable.
 
MAP and SSA are established. SSA Integration Teams begin work without restrictions on information flow.
a. January 1st:
 
Emro and SuperAmerica continue the transition from separate operations to an integrated retail organization, through Level I integration. Also during this quarter, analyses of Level II and III issues continue. All such analyses shall include benchmarking of Emro and SuperAmerica practices and results. Recommendations for some Level II issues are presented to MAP executive management for review and approval. SSA executive management reviews progress on Level I, II and III initiatives with MAP executive management and MAP Board of Managers.
b. First Quarter 1998:
 
Emro and SuperAmerica continue the transition from separate operations to one integrated retail organization. During this quarter, recommendations for some Level II and III integration issues may be presented to the MAP executive management and MAP Board of Managers for review and approval, and analyses of other Level II and III issues continue as provided in paragraph 4(b). SSA executive management reviews progress on Level I, II and III initiatives with MAP executive management and MAP Board of Managers.
c. Second Quarter 1998:
 
Emro and SuperAmerica complete additional Level I integration and continue work on Level II and III integration actions approved during the second quarter. During this quarter, the Integration Teams and SSA executive management complete additional analyses and valuation of alternatives and make additional recommendations on Level II and III initiatives. SSA executive management
d. Third Quarter 1998:
 
reviews progress on Level I, II and III integration actions with MAP executive management and with the MAP Board of Managers.
 
Emro and SuperAmerica complete additional Level I integration and continue work on Level II and III integration actions. SSA executive management reviews progress on Level I, II and III integration actions with MAP executive management and Board of Managers. SSA and MAP executive management will present any remaining super majority issues proposals for action by the Board of Managers no later than October 30, 1998 to provide ample time for the MAP executive management and Board of Managers to formulate decisions during the fourth quarter.
e. Fourth Quarter 1998:
 
Complete Level II and III integration actions as directed by the MAP executive management and Board of Managers.
f. Calendar 1999:
 
A number of Level III issues are addressed in more detail in this Paragraph 5. This Paragraph 5 is intended to give guidance to the executive management of SSA and MAP on certain key issues:
5. Management Guidance.
 
As the integration process proceeds, it will be implemented through a transitional organization as outlined on Exhibit A with the intention of ultimately implementing an organization similar to that shown on Exhibit B, subject to changes approved by SSA and MAP executive management and the MAP Board of Managers.
a. SSA Organization.
 
b. Key Management Issues.
 
Proper communication to everyone concerned needs to occur early and clearly to ensure the success of the operation. Structure, form, and responsibilities need to be clearly communicated. Key SSA managers, especially those involved in best practice
(i)
 
integration teams, need to fully understand their individual roles during what may be a chaotic period that may last longer than originally anticipated.
 
Outside agencies and suppliers will be dealing with one legal entity that in some cases will continue to behave as two separate entities. This is potentially an area of confusion that needs to be addressed to avoid causing problems in the retail operation. Speedway SuperAmerica LLC office of the president will have the primary responsibility for developing and disseminating the proper communication as needed to address these issues.
(ii)
 
It is anticipated that through its early stages, SSA will be con-managed by R.N. Yammine and J. F. Pettus to achieve the overall objectives of Marathon and Ashland for MAP. During such stages, it is anticipated that Pettus' emphasis will be on SSA operations and Yammine's on SSA financial and other support functions, but they will share responsibility for managing SSA, ensuring that best practices guide the integration process in the manner and on the timetable described in this protocol, and ensuring that the non-integrated segments on SSA continue to operate smoothly and efficiently. References in this protocol to the executive management of SSA are references to Yammine and Pettus. ALL SSA EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT DECISIONS, RECOMMENDATIONS AND OTHER ACTIONS RELATIVE TO INTEGRATION AND TO ONGOING OPERATION OF SSA'S BUSINESS ARE TO BE MADE JOINTLY BY YAMMINE AND PETTUS; PROVIDED THAT IF YAMMINE AND PETTUS ARE UNABLE TO AGREE ON A DECISION, RECOMMENDATION OR ACTION, THEY WILL REPORT TO THE PRESIDENT OF MAP WHO WILL RESOLVE ANY DIFFERENCE AND REPORT HIS RECOMMENDATION TO THE MAP BOARD ON ANY MATTER REQUIRED HEREUNDER, INCLUDING LEVEL III DECISIONS.
c. Co-Management.
 
d. Measurement of Success.
 
The present P & L statements of Emro and SuperAmerica are not consistent since Emro's P & L is based on rack prices and SuperAmerica's is based on adjusted rack prices. A common transfer price will be adopted by MAP executive management after the closing of the Joint Venture, with appropriate input from the SSA executive management. Depending upon the transfer price methodology used, various adjustments will be made to permit accurate analysis of Emro and SuperAmerica performance, e.g., if rack price is used, adjustments will be made to reflect the synergy added to MAP by Emro and SuperAmerica.
(i)
 
Except as noted in this protocol, the intent of Marathon and Ashland is to analyze all decisions to be made and other actions to be taken relative to Level II and Level III integration, and to value alternatives, on an economic value added ("EVA") basis, as it relates to MAP in total. However, Marathon and Ashland recognize that certain qualitative issues relative to Emro and SuperAmerica Business Equity may not lend themselves to a strict EVA analysis. In such cases, other tools may be used to analyze such qualitative issues and value alternatives, including but not limited to:
(ii)
 
Benchmarking performances between similar operations in Emro and SuperAmerica, e.g., money loss and inventory shrink in similar groups of stores, sales by category, profit by store category, etc.;
A)
 
Marketing program and reverse marketing program testing;
B)
 
Customer-intercept studies;
C)
 
Focus-group evaluations; and
D)
 
Consultants' input and analysis, as deemed appropriate and cost effective by the SSA or MAP executive management.
E)
 
Various economic methodologies pertinent to the economic performance of SSA and SSA and MAP combined.
F)
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
 
 
1. Double-Skin Barge Program  PNC Leasing Corp., Kentucky and Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation (35 barges are currently in the program).
 
(a) Charter Agreement between PNC Leasing Corp., Kentucky, as Owner, and Ashland Inc., as Charterer, dated as of January 19, 1996, as amended by First Amendment thereto dated as of October 28, 1997.
 
(b) Charter Agreement between Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation, as Owner, and Ashland Inc., as Charterer, dated as of January 19, 1996, as amended by First Amendment thereto dated as of October 28, 1997.
 
2. Sale & Leaseback of 125 DOT 112J340W Pressure Tank Cars between Signet Leasing & Financial Corporation and Ashland Inc.
 
(a) Master Lease Agreement, dated as of April 26, 1995, between Signet Leasing and Financial Corporation, as lessor, and Ashland Inc., as lessee.
 
3. Super America-Goldman Sachs Sale Leaseback (24 properties).
 
(a) Lease Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1990, between State Street Bank and Trust Company of Connecticut, National Association, as lessor, and Ashland Inc., (formerly Ashland Oil, Inc.), as lessee.
 
4. Bluegrass Funding, Inc. Master Lease Program (15 SuperAmerica properties are currently in the program).
 
(a) Amended, Restated and Consolidated Lease Agreement, dated as of October 22, 1993, between Bluegrass Funding, Inc. and Ashland Oil, Inc.;
 
(b) Amendment No. 1, dated as of October 31, 1994 to Amended, Restated and Consolidated Lease Agreement between Bluegrass Funding, Inc. and Ashland Oil, Inc.; and
 
(c) Amendment No. 2, dated as of March 17, 1995, to Amended, Restated and Consolidated Lease Agreement dated as of October 22, 1993, between Bluegrass funding, Inc. and Ashland Inc.
 
5. Fayette Funding, Limited Partnership master Lease Program (172 SuperAmerica and Rich Oil properties are currently in the program that will be contributed to the Company).
 
(a) Second Amended, Restated and Consolidated Lease Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1995, between Fayette Funding, Limited Partnership and Ashland Inc.; and
 
(b) Amendment No. 1 to Second Amended, Restated and Consolidated Agreement for Lease, dated as of July 9, 1996, between Fayette Funding, Limited Partnership and Ashland Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
Subleased Property is described in the Sublease Schedules to the Marathon Designated Sublease Agreements attached as Exhibit E to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
 
 
(a) Lease Agreement dated as of September 15, 1987 between Wilmington Trust Company and William J. Wade, not in their respective individual capacities, but solely as owner trustees under a Trust Agreement dated as of September 15, 1987, Lessor and Marathon Oil Company, as assignee of Emro Marketing Company, Lessee.
 
(b) Lease for each Original Lease identified on a Sublease Schedule, which Lease is one of a series of lease agreements between Station Associates Venture, an Indiana general partnership, as Landlord, and Marathon Oil Company, an Ohio corporation, as assignee of Emro Marketing Company, a Delaware corporation, as successor by merger to R. I. Marketing, Inc., and Indiana corporation, as Tenant.
 
 
(a) Equipment Lease Agreement dated as of December 1, 1985, as amended effective October 11, 1995, between State Street Bank and Trust Company not in its individual capacity but solely as Trustee ("Lessor"), as successor Trustee to the original Trustee, The First National Bank of Boston, under that certain Trust Agreement dated as of December 1, 1985 with BNY Capital Resources Corporation ("Trustor"), as successor in interest to BNY One Leasing Corporation (formerly BNY Leasing, Inc.) and Marathon Oil Company ("Lessee"), as successor by merger to Marathon Petroleum Company.
 
(b) Equipment Lease ("Lease") dated as of November 1, 1986 between Sequa Capital Corporation, formerly Forsun Leasing Corp., as Lessor and Marathon Oil Company, successor by merger to Marathon Petroleum Company, as Lessee.
 
 
 
1. Double-Skin Barge Program  PNC Leasing Corp., Kentucky and Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation (35 barges are currently in the program).
 
(a) Charter Agreement between PNC Leasing Corp., Kentucky, as Owner, and Ashland Inc., as Charterer, dated as of January 19, 1996, as amended by First Amendment thereto dated as of October 28, 1997.
 
(b) Charter Agreement between Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation, as Owner, and Ashland Inc., as Charterer, dated as of January 19, 1996, as amended by First Amendment thereto dated as of October 28, 1997.
 
2. Sale & Leaseback of 125 DOT 112J340W Pressure Tank Cars between Signet Leasing & Financial Corporation and Ashland Inc.
 
(a) Master Lease Agreement, dated as of April 26, 1995, between Signet Leasing and Financial Corporation, as lessor, and Ashland Inc., as lessee.
 
3. SuperAmerica- Goldman Sachs Sale & Leaseback (24 properties).
 
(a) Lease Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1990, between State Street Bank and Trust Company of Connecticut, National Association, as lessor, and Ashland Inc. (formerly Ashland Oil, Inc.), as lessee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See Schedule 7.2(k) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement
 
12/10/97
 
 
 
 
Put/Call, Registration Rights, and Standstill Agreement by and among Marathon Oil Company, USX Corporation, Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
 
Intellectual Property License Agreement from Ashland Inc. to Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
 
Trademark License Agreement from Ashland Inc. to Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
 
Office Lease Agreement by and between Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC of Lexington, KY office building
 
Office Lease Agreement by and between Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC for lease of Russell, KY office building
 
Lease Agreement by and between Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC for lease of the Louisville, KY Terminal
 
Lease Agreement by and between Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LCC for lease of the Findlay, OH Terminal
 
Lease Agreement by and between Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC for lease of Heath, OH Terminal
 
Lease Agreement by and between Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC for lease of the Cincinnati, OH Asphalt Terminal
 
Lease Agreement by and between Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC for lease of the Ashland Brand Bulk Plants
 
Goldman Sachs Master Sublease Agreement by and between Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
 
Pitney Bowes Credit Corporation Master Subcharter Agreement by and between Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
 
PNC Leasing Corp. Kentucky Master Subcharter Agreement by and between Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
 
Signet Leasing and Financing Corporation Master Sublease Agreement by and between Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
 
Pass-Through Sublease Agreement by and between Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC for sublease of BLC Corporation vehicles and railcars
 
Pass-Through Sublease Agreement by and between Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC for sublease of First Union Commercial Corporation vehicles and trailers
 
Lube Oils and Chemicals Supplement Agreement between Marathon Oil Company and Ashland Inc. (Valvoline Lube Purchase Contract)
 
Hydrocarbon Supply Agreement between Industrial Chemicals and Solvents Division of Ashland Chemical Company, a division of Ashland Inc. and Ashland Petroleum Company, a division of Ashland Inc. (Ashland Chemical Agreement)
 
Joint Services Agreement by and between Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC and Ashland Chemical Company, a division of Ashland Inc. (Ashland Chemical Interplant Services Agreement)
 
Supplier Cooperation Agreement by and between Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC and The Drew Industrial Division of Ashland Chemical Company, Division of Ashland Inc. (Wastewater Treatment Agreement)
 
License Agreement by and between Ashland Inc. and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC (Caverns/Neal, West Virginia)
 
Insurance Indemnity Agreement by and among Marathon Oil Company, Ashland Inc., USX Corporation and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
 
Services Agreement by and among Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC, Marathon Oil Company and Ashland Inc.
 
Revolving Credit Agreement among Ashland Inc., Marathon Oil Company, and Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
 
Possible subcharter of M/V Kentucky and M/F West Virginia
 
 
 
 
 
The following Affiliate Transactions:
 
Marathon Intellectual Property Agreement
 
Marathon Trademark License Agreement
 
Findlay Office Lease Agreement
 
Indianapolis Terminal Lease Agreement
 
Emro Marketing Sublease Agreement
 
Garyville Hydrotreater Sublease Agreement
 
Robinson Hydrotreater Sublease Agreement
 
SAV Sublease Agreement
 
Marathon Other Sublease Agreement
 
Marathon Pipe Line Operating Agreements
 
Joint Defense Agreement
 
Crude Oil & NGL Agreement
 
Indemnity Agreement
 
Shared Services Agreement
 
Revolving Credit Facility
 
Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
Schedule 8.14
 
 
For purposes of the Limited Liability Company Agreement dated as of January 1, 1998, of Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC (the ""), by and among Marathon Oil Company, an Ohio corporation and Ashland Inc., a Kentucky corporation (the ""), the Company Leverage Policy shall be as set forth below. Unless otherwise indicated, Section and Article references in this Schedule 8.14 are to Sections and Articles of the LLC Agreement.
Company
LLC Agreement
 
The Company Leverage Policy is based on the following general principals:
 
(1) It is the intent of Marathon and Ashland that the Company and its subsidiaries operate without financial leverage, either on balance sheet (through Indebtedness) or off balance sheet (through lease programs, receivable financing programs and similar financing methods).
 
(2) It is the intent of Marathon and Ashland that the Company and its subsidiaries have available to them on an on-going basis one or more revolving credit facilities, uncommitted money market credit facilities or other comparable debt facilities in such amount to provide adequate liquidity to fund the normal operation of the Company and that the company and its subsidiaries promptly repay any amounts borrowed under such facilities at the time of, and to the extent of, any collected or available bank cash balances other than Incidental Cash and any cash balances that represent uncollected funds that are not otherwise included in Incidental Cash (collectively "").
Surplus Cash
 
(3) It is the intent of Marathon and Ashland that increases in Ordinary Course Lease Expenses over time shall not exceed the rate of inflation (it being understood that notwithstanding the foregoing, the $80 million limitation on Ordinary Course Lease Expenses in Section 8.08(f)(ii) of the LLC Agreement exceeds the historical average lease expense of certain specified leases of both Marathon's Business and Ashland's Business).
 
Accordingly, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
SECTION 1. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Schedule 8.14 shall have the meanings set forth in the LLC Agreement. In addition the following terms used herein have the following meanings:
Definitions.
 
"" means one or more capital improvement projects or acquisitions, each approved by the Board of Managers on or prior to December 31, 2004, pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(c) of the LLC Agreement, following a vote of the Board of Managers in accordance with Section 8.07(b) of the LLC Agreement with respect to such capital improvement projects or acquisitions in circumstances where such capital improvement project or acquisition was not approved and a majority of the Marathon Representatives voted in favor of such capital improvement or acquisition; , that each such capital improvement project or acquisition has a discounted cash flow rate of return of at least 15%, based upon such economic assumptions and methodology as are mutually acceptable to Marathon and Ashland, acting in good faith; , , that the aggregate amount of all Capital Expenditures and Acquisition Expenditures of the Company and its subsidiaries made with respect to Permitted Capital Projects/Acquisitions shall not exceed $300 million.
Permitted Capital Projects/Acquisitions
provided
however
provided
further
however
 
"" means the actual or notional amount of any Indebtedness that is designated for, and is incurred for the specific purpose of, funding a Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition.
Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness
 
"" mean (i) Indebtedness owed by the Company to any of its Wholly Owned Subsidiaries, (ii) Indebtedness owed by a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company to the Company and (iii) Indebtedness owed by a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company to another Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company.
Permitted Intercompany Debt
 
"" means (a) a Capital Expenditure of, or an acquisition by, the Company or any of its subsidiaries that is designated by the Board of Managers as a "Special Project" pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b) of the LLC Agreement or (b) any acquisition of assets or stock resulting in the incurrence of Indebtedness in an amount of less than $15 million pursuant to Section 2(d) hereto.
Special Project
 
"" means the actual or notional amount of any Indebtedness that is designated for, and is incurred for the specific purpose of funding, a Special Project.
Special Project Indebtedness
 
SECTION 2. (a) The Company and its subsidiaries shall not incur any indebtedness other than: (1) borrowings under one or more revolving credit facilities, uncommitted money market credit facilities or other comparable debt facilities (including under the Revolving Credit Agreement) to fund cash deficiencies in an amount not to exceed $500 million in the aggregate, (ii) Permitted Intercompany Debt, (iii) Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness, (iv) any Special Project Indebtedness and (v) the Indebtedness assumed by the Company pursuant to Section 2.3(d) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Limitation on Incurrence of Indebted-ness.
 
(b) The Company shall promptly repay any amounts borrowed under clause (a)(i) above at the time of, and to the extent of any Surplus Cash.
 
(c) The Company and its subsidiaries shall not be permitted to incur Indebtedness under clause (a)(i) above to fund Special Projects or Permitted Capital Projects/Acquisitions.
 
(d) Any Indebtedness incurred by the Company and it s subsidiaries under clause (a)(i) above in excess of $500 million shall be approved by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b) of the LLC Agreement. Any Indebtedness incurred by the company and its subsidiaries under clause (a)(ii) above shall not require approval of the Board of Managers. Any Indebtedness incurred by the company and its subsidiaries under clause (a)(iii) above shall be approved in accordance with the provisions of Section 4 hereto. Any Indebtedness incurred by the Company and its subsidiaries under clause (a)(iv) above shall be approved by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b) of the LLC Agreement; , that Special Indebtedness incurred in an amount less than $15 million in any transaction to purchase assets or stock that is payable to the seller on an installment basis or that is otherwise assumed as a result of an acquisition of assets or stock shall be approved by: (a) The Board of managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(c) of the LLC Agreement if the amount of the Indebtedness is more than $5 million or (b) the Senior Vice President Finance and Commercial Services if the amount of Indebtedness in $5 million or less. Any Special Project
provided
however
 
Indebtedness incurred pursuant to the foregoing proviso shall be paid as promptly as in economically attractive given the terms of the Indebtedness and the transaction documents.
 
(e) It is understood and agreed that with respect to operating leases, the amount of rental or lease expense stated in Section 8.08(f)(ii) of the LLC Agreement shall be considered Ordinary Course Lease Expenses rather than off balance sheet financial leverage.
 
SECTION 3. At the time of and in connection with its approval of any Special Project Indebtedness, the Board of managers shall also establish and approve pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b) of the LLC Agreement a notional repayment schedule with respect to such Special Project Indebtedness; , , that any notional repayment schedule of such Special Project Indebtedness incurred pursuant to the proviso in Section 2(d) hereto shall be established and approved by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(c) of the LLC Agreement if the amount of Indebtedness is more than $5 million or by the Senior Vice President of Finance and Commercial Services if the amount of Indebtedness in $5 million or less.
Special Project Indebtedness.
provided
however
 
SECTION 4. (a) During Fiscal Years 1998 through 20004, the Company and its subsidiaries shall be permitted to incur up to $300 million in the aggregate in Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness to the extent such Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness is approved by the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(c) of the LLC Agreement.
Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness.
 
(b) At the time of and in connection with is approval of any Permitted Catlettsburg Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness, the Board of Managers shall also establish and approve pursuant to a cote in accordance with Section 8.07(c) of the LLC Agreement a notional repayment schedule with respect to such Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition Indebtedness which reflects the payback of the Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition.
 
(c) The 20% threshold set forth in the definition of "Permitted Catlettsburg Capital Project/Acquisition" shall be periodically adjusted to reflect changes in the cost of capital as Marathon and Ashland shall mutually agree.
 
(d) To the extent that there is a disagreement between Ashland and Marathon over the economic assumptions
 
or methodology to be use to determine the discounted cash flow rate of return of a Permitted Capital Project/Acquisition, such disagreement shall be resolved pursuant to the Procedures for Dispute Resolution set forth in Exhibit B to the LLC Agreement, but with any arbitration proceeding being conducted by a sole arbitrator who is qualified industry-recognized expert in the petroleum refining business.
 
SECTION 5. The Company Leverage Policy set forth herein, and any notional repayment schedule established and approved by the Board of Manager in accordance with Section 3 hereto, may be modified, altered or amended only with the approval of the Board of Manager pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(b) of the LLC Agreement. Notwithstanding the above, any notional repayment schedule established and approved by the Board of Managers in accordance with Section 4 hereto may be modified, altered or amended only with the approval of the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(c) of the LLC Agreement. Any notional repayment schedule associated with Special Project Indebtedness established and approved pursuant to the proviso in Section 3 may be modified, altered or amended only with the approval of the Board of Managers pursuant to a vote in accordance with Section 8.07(c) of the LLC Agreement if the amount of Indebtedness is more than $5 million or by the Senior Vice President Finance and Commercial Services if the amount of Indebtedness is $5 million or less.
Amendments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Funds which are deemed to be surplus after meeting daily requirements shall be invested in money market instruments. Surplus funds shall always be invested with safety of principal and liquidity foremost in mind. Yield is important but secondary to safety and liquidity considerations.
 
 
The Investment Committee shall plan the general strategy for the management of the short-term investment portfolio. The Committee will discuss from time to time market conditions and general strategy and will have the authority to change policy as deemed needed. The Committee shall be composed of the Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Vice President Finance and Controller; and the Treasurer. The guidelines may be changed upon written approval of the Investment Committee with individual exceptions approved verbally by two voting members of the Committee and subsequently documented.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is no limit to the amount that may be invested in outright purchases of U.S. Treasury Securities. Investments in securities which are the indirect obligation of the U.S. government ("Agencies") are allowed to a limit of $25MM per Agency.
 
 
Repurchase Agreements (Repo) shall be limited to only Primary Government Securities Dealers (Primary Dealers) as determined from time to time by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Repo Transaction shall be 102% collateralized with U.S. Treasury or agency securities with MAP retaining the right to ask and receive additional margin due to a change in the value of the underlying security. Repurchase agreements with Primary Dealers shall be limited to a maximum of $50MM per institution and a maximum maturity of sixty days.
 
 
 
Investments that do not meet the rating guidelines for Issuers shall not exceed the FDIC insurance limitation unless approved by the Investment Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TBD = To Be Determined
 
DD&A = Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In-process capital expenditure depreciation is not removed since the earnings are in JV GAAP EBIT.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PUT/CALL, REGISTRATION RIGHTS AND STANDSTILL AGREEMENT dated as of [January 1], 1998,
2
/ by and among MARATHON OIL COMPANY, an Ohio corporation (""), USX CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (""), ASHLAND INC., a Kentucky corporation (""), and MARATHON ASHLAND PETROLEUM LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "").
Marathon
USX
Ashland
Company
 
 
WHEREAS Marathon and Ashland have previously entered into a Master Formation Agreement dated as of December 12, 1997, relating to the formation of the Company, which will own and operate certain of Marathon's and Ashland's respective petroleum supply, refining, marketing, and transportation businesses;
 
WHEREAS Marathon and Ashland have previously entered into an Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement dated as of December 12, 1997, pursuant to which, among other things, Marathon and Ashland will transfer their respective Businesses (as defined below) to the Company;
 
WHEREAS Marathon, USX and Ashland have previously entered into a Parent Agreement dated as of December 12, 1997;
 
WHEREAS Marathon and Ashland have entered into an LLC Agreement dated as of the date hereof in order to establish the rights and responsibilities of each of them with respect to the governance, financing and operation of the Company;
 
WHEREAS Marathon and Ashland have agreed that under certain circumstances, Ashland will sell to Marathon and Marathon will purchase from Ashland all of Ashland's Membership Interests and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest (each as defined below), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein;
 
WHEREAS Marathon and Ashland have agreed that if Marathon or Ashland elects to terminate the Term of the Company pursuant to Section 2.03 of the LLC Agreement, then the non-terminating Member shall have the right to purchase from the terminating Member all of the terminating Member's Membership Interests, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein;
 
WHEREAS Marathon and USX have agreed that Marathon and USX will grant Ashland certain registration rights with respect to any Securities (as defined below) that Marathon or USX issues to Ashland pursuant to this Agreement in connection with the purchase by Marathon of Ashland's Membership Interests and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein;
 
WHEREAS Marathon and USX have agreed to certain restrictions with respect to actions relating to Ashland Voting Securities (as defined below), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein;
 
WHEREAS Ashland has agreed to certain restrictions with respect to actions relating to USX Voting Securities (as defined below), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein; and
 
WHEREAS Marathon, USX and Ashland have agreed to certain restrictions with respect to certain of their business activities, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
SECTION 1.01. Defined terms used in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed to them by definition in this Agreement or in Appendix A. In addition,
Definitions.
 
when used herein the following terms have the following meanings:
 
"" means Marathon Equity Securities for which there is an active trading market on the National Market System of the NASDAQ or on a National Securities Exchange during the period commencing 30 days prior to the Closing Date or applicable Installment Payment Date and ending on the Closing Date or such Installment Payment Date.
Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.02.
Adjustable Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.02.
Adjustable Amounts Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.02.
Adjustment Year
 
"" means this Put/Call, Registration Rights, and Standstill Agreement, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01(c).
Appraised Value Determination Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01(c).
Appraised Value of the Company
 
" means the Ashland Sublease Agreements attached as Exhibits L-1, L-2, L-3 and L-4 to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Designated Sublease Agreements"
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a)(i).
Ashland Exercise Period Distributions
 
"" means (i) the 4.0% interest in LOOP LLC owned by Ashland on the date hereof pursuant to the limited liability company agreement of LOOP LLC dated as of October 18, 1996, among Ashland, Marathon Pipe Line Company, Murphy Oil Corporation, Shell Oil Company and Texaco Inc. and (ii) the 86.20 shares of common stock of LOCAP, Inc. owned by Ashland, which shares on the date hereof represent an 8.6% interest in LOCAP, Inc.;
Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest
provided
 
that in the event there is a reclassification of the LOOP, LLC membership interests or the common stock of LOCAP, Inc. into one or more different types or classes of securities, the "Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest" shall instead include such different types or classes of securities.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.02(e).
Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Irrevocable Proxy
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(c).
Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Revocable Proxy
 
"" means, for purposes of Section 1.03, either (i) a material adverse effect on the ability of Ashland to perform its obligations under this Agreement or (ii) an effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of Ashland's Business which results in a Loss of two million dollars ($2,000,000) or more, or, if such Loss is not susceptible to being measured in monetary terms, is otherwise materially adverse to Ashland's Business; that any such effect relating to or resulting from any change in the price of petroleum or petroleum byproducts, general economic conditions or local, regional, national or international industry conditions (including changes in financial or market conditions) shall be deemed not to constitute an Ashland Material Adverse Effect.
Ashland Material Adverse Effect
provided
 
"" means the initial Membership Interests of Ashland on the date hereof, together with any additional Membership Interests that Ashland may hereafter acquire.
Ashland Membership Interests
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.03.
Ashland Put Exercise Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.03.
Ashland Put Exercise Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.01.
Ashland Put Price
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.04(b).
Ashland Put Price Election Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.04(a).
Ashland Put Price Election Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.01.
Ashland Put Right
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(a).
Ashland Representatives Revocable Proxies
 
"" means the Special Termination Right granted to Ashland pursuant to Section 2.01.
Ashland Special Termination Right
 
"" means the securities of Ashland (i) having the power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors of Ashland (whether or not any senior class of stock has voting power by reason of any contingency) or (ii) convertible into or exchangeable for securities of Ashland having the power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors of Ashland (whether or not any senior class of stock has voting power by reason of any contingency).
Ashland Voting Securities
 
"" means for any twelve-month period ending on December 31 of any calendar year, the average of the level of the Price Index ascertained by adding the twelve monthly levels of the Price Index during such twelve-month period and dividing the total by twelve.
Average Annual Level
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the LLC Agreement.
Base Level
 
"" means a rate of interest closely approximating that of comparable term senior debt securities or debt obligations priced to trade at par issued by USX or issued by Marathon and fully guaranteed by USX, or issued by a firm of comparable credit standing.
Base Rate
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.01(b).
Blackout Period
 
"" means an investment banking firm that is listed as one of the top 10 investment banking firms for all domestic equity issues in terms of the aggregate dollar amount of such issues (with full credit given to the lead manager) as reported in the
Bulge Bracket Investment Banking Firm
 
latest issue of Investment Dealers' Digest or a publication (or otherwise) of similar national repute which provides rankings of investment banking firms by size of domestic issues.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(h).
Bulk Motor Oil Business
 
"" means United States dollars or immediately available funds in United States dollars.
Cash
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.01(a).
Closing
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.01(a).
Closing Date
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor agency having jurisdiction under the Securities Act.
Commission
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01(a).
Company Competitive Business
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01(d).
Company Competitive Business Assets
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01(d).
Company Competitive Third Party
 
"" means, for purposes of Section 1.03, an effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of the Company's Business which results in a Loss of two million dollars ($2,000,000) or more, or, if such Loss is not susceptible to being measured in monetary terms, is otherwise materially adverse to the Company's Business; that any such effect relating to or resulting from any change in the price of petroleum or petroleum byproducts, general economic conditions or local, regional, national or international industry conditions (including changes in financial or market conditions) shall be deemed not to constitute a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Company Material Adverse Effect
provided
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.04.
Competitive Business Purchase Price
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.02(b).
Confidential Information
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.02(b).
Confidentiality Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.03(b).
Delayed Closing Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.03(b).
Delayed Closing Date Interest Period
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.06.
Delayed Installment Payment Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.06.
Delayed Installment Payment Date Interest Period
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.01(a).
Demand Registration
 
"" means the Ashland Designated Sublease Agreements and the Marathon Designated Sublease Agreements.
Designated Sublease Agreements
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.02(b).
Disclosing Party
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 16.01.
Dispute
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 16.02.
Dispute Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the LLC Agreement.
Distributable Cash
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a)(ii)(B).
Escrow Account
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" means the Special Termination Exercise Date, the Marathon Call Exercise Date or the Ashland Put Exercise Date, as applicable.
Exercise Date
 
"" means Ashland Exercise Period Distributions or Marathon Exercise Period Distributions, as applicable.
Exercise Period Distributions
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01.
Fair Market Value
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01(d).
14.01(d) Presentation Meeting
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01(d).
14.01(d) Scheduled Closing Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(d).
14.03(d) Offer Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth on Section 14.03(d).
14.03(d) Purchase Election Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(d).
14.03(d) Scheduled Closing Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(f)(i).
14.03(f) Offer Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(f)(i).
14.03(f) Purchase Election Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.04.
14.04 Appraisal Process Commencement Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.04.
14.04 Appraisal Report
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.04.
14.04 Initial Opinion Values
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.04.
14.04 Subsequent Appraisal Process Commencement Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.04.
14.04 Third Opinion Value
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.04.
Fully Distributed Sale
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.03.
Holding Period
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.02(b).
Installment Payment
 
"" means a Scheduled Installment Payment Date or a Delayed Installment Payment Date, as applicable.
Installment Payment Date
 
"" means a rating of BBB- or higher by S&P or Baa3 or higher by Moody's or the equivalent of such rating by S&P and Moody's.
Investment Grade Rating
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.01(a).
Issuer
 
"" means either (i) a material adverse effect on the ability of the Issuer to perform its obligations under this Agreement or (ii) a material adverse effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of the Issuer and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole; , , that any such effect relating to or resulting from any change in the price of petroleum or petroleum byproducts, general economic conditions or local, regional, national or international industry conditions (including changes in financial or market conditions) or any change in applicable tax laws or regulations shall be deemed not to constitute an Issuer Material Adverse Effect.
Issuer Material Adverse Effect
provided
however
 
"" means, for any one-month period or portion thereof, the per annum rate (rounded to the nearest 1/10,000 of 1%) for U.S. dollar deposits for such one-month period which appears on Bloomberg Page DG522a Equity GPGX as of 11:00 a.m. London time on the second London business day preceding the first day of such one-month period. "" means the display page designated "DG522a Equity GPGX" on the Bloomberg, L.P. quotation service (or replacement page or successor service for displaying comparable rates).
LIBOR Rate
Bloomberg Page DG522a Equity GPGX
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.04.
Losses
 
"" means Indebtedness with a maturity of one year or longer.
Long Term Debt
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(d)(i).
Maralube Express Business
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.03.
Marathon Call Exercise Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.03.
Marathon Call Exercise Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01.
Marathon Call Price
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01.
Marathon Call Right
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.01.
Marathon Debt Securities
 
" means the Marathon Sublease Agreements attached as Exhibits E-1, E-2 and E-3 to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Designated Sublease Agreements"
 
"" means any of (i) the class of common stock of USX designated as USX-Marathon Group Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share, (ii) the class of common equity securities of Marathon or, if USX has transferred all of the assets and liabilities of the Marathon Group to a Marathon Group Subsidiary (as such term is defined in the Certificate of Incorporation of USX) pursuant to Section 2(a) of Division I of Article Fourth of the Certificate of Incorporation of USX and the Board of Directors of USX has declared that all of the outstanding shares of USX-Marathon Group Common Stock be exchanged for shares of common stock of the Marathon Group Subsidiary, the Marathon Group Subsidiary; , that so long as Marathon shall be a subsidiary of USX, such common equity securities shall constitute Marathon Equity Securities only if such class accounts for USX's primary ownership interest in Marathon, or (iii) the common equity securities of USX (but only if a single class of common equity securities of USX exists), in each case (1) registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act and (2) issued to Ashland pursuant to Section 4.02(c); that in the event there is a
Marathon Equity Securities
provided
provided
 
reclassification of any of the foregoing classes of common stock into one or more different types or classes of securities, "Marathon Equity Securities" shall instead include such different types or classes of securities.
 
"" has the meanings set forth in Section 5.01(b)(i).
Marathon Exercise Period Distributions
 
"" means, for purposes of Section 1.03, either (i) a material adverse effect on the ability of Marathon to perform its obligations under this Agreement or (ii) an effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of Marathon's Business which results in a Loss of two million dollars ($2,000,000) or more, or, if such Loss is not susceptible to being measured in monetary terms, is otherwise materially adverse to Marathon's Business; that any such effect relating to or resulting from any change in the price of petroleum or petroleum byproducts, general economic conditions or local, regional, national or international industry conditions (including changes in financial or market conditions) shall be deemed not to constitute a Marathon Material Adverse Effect.
Marathon Material Adverse Effect
provided
 
"" means the initial Membership Interests of Marathon on the date hereof, together with any additional Membership Interests that Marathon may hereafter acquire.
Marathon Membership Interests
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(b).
Marathon Representatives Revocable Proxies
 
"" means the Special Termination Right granted to Marathon pursuant to Section 2.01.
Marathon Special Termination Right
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01(c).
Market Value of the Company
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.01(e).
Maximum Offering Size
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.02(a)(ii).
Mid-Level Employee
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(h).
Minimum Lube Oil Purchase Amount
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
 
"" means a securities exchange registered as a national securities exchange under Section 6 of the Exchange Act.
National Securities Exchange
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04(b).
9.04(b) Post-Scheduled Closing Date Distribution Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.08(b).
9.08(b) Post-Scheduled Closing Date Distribution Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
Non-Terminating Member
 
"" means any offering memorandum prepared in connection with a sale of Securities effected in accordance with Section 4(2) or Rule 144A under the Securities Act, including all amendments and supplements to such offering memorandum, all exhibits thereto and all materials incorporated by reference in such offering memorandum.
Offering Memorandum
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.01(e).
Other Holders
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(h).
Packaged Motor Oil Business
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the LLC Agreement.
Percentage Interest
 
"" means any of the following: (i) any investment in direct obligations of the United States of America or any agency thereof or obligations Guaranteed by the United States of America or any agency thereof; (ii) investments in time deposit accounts, certificates of deposit and money market deposits maturing within 180 days of the date of acquisition thereof issued by a bank or trust company which is organized under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or any foreign country recognized by the United States of America having capital, surplus and undivided profits
Permitted Investments
 
aggregating in excess of $250,000,000 (or the foreign currency equivalent thereof) and whose Long Term debt is rated "A" (or higher) by Moody's or S&P; (iii) repurchase agreements having terms of not more than 30 days that are (A) collateralized by underlying securities of the types described in clause (i) above having a fair market value at the time the Company enters into such repurchase agreements of at least 102% of the principal amount of such repurchase agreements and (B) entered into with a bank meeting the qualifications described in clause (ii) above; (iv) investments in commercial paper, maturing not more than 90 days after the date of acquisition, issued by a corporation (other than an Affiliate of any of the parties hereto) organized and in existence under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or any foreign country recognized by the United States of America with a rating at the time as of which any investment therein is made of both "P-1" (or higher) according to Moody's and "A-1" (or higher) according to S&P; and (v) investments in securities with maturities of six months or less from the date of acquisition issued or fully guaranteed by any state, commonwealth or territory of the United States of America, or by any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof, and rated at least "A" by S&P or "A" by Moody's.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the LLC Agreement.
Price Index
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(h).
Private Label Packaged Motor Oil Business
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.04.
Qualifying Public Offering
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(h).
Quick Lube Business
 
"" means any registration statement under the Securities Act which permits the public offering of Securities, including the prospectus included therein, all amendments and supplements to such registration statement or prospectus, including post-effective amendments, all exhibits thereto and all materials incorporated by reference in such registration statement.
Registration Statement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.02(b).
Representatives
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 16.02.
Response
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(a).
Required Disclosure
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(a).
Required Disclosure Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.01(a).
Scheduled Closing Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.02(b).
Scheduled Installment Payment Date
 
"" means Marathon Debt Securities and/or Marathon Equity Securities.
Securities
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933.
Securities Act
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.02.
Securities Document
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.02(a)(ii).
Senior Employee
 
"" means Standard & Poor's Corporation and any successor thereto.
S&P
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(b).
7.03(b) Appraisal Process Commencement Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(b).
7.03(b) Appraisal Report
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(b).
7.03(b) Discount Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(b).
7.03(b) Initial Opinion Values
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(b).
7.03(b) Subsequent Appraisal Process Commencement Date
 
"has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(b).
7.03(b) Third Opinion Value
"
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.04(b).
7.04 Appraisal Process Commencement Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.04(b).
7.04 Appraisal Report
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.04(b).
7.04 Discount Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.04(b).
7.04 Initial Opinion Values
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.04(b).
7.04 Subsequent Appraisal Process Commencement Date
 
"has the meaning set forth in Section 7.04(b).
7.04 Third Opinion Value
"
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01(b).
6.01 Appraisal Process Commencement Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01(b).
6.01 Appraisal Report
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01(b).
6.01 Initial Opinion Values
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01(b).
6.01 Subsequent Appraisal Process Commencement Date
 
"has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01(b).
6.01 Third Opinion Value
"
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03.
Special Termination Exercise Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03.
Special Termination Exercise Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
Special Termination Price
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
Special Termination Right
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the LLC Agreement.
Tax Liability
 
"" means the cash distributions to which a Member is entitled pursuant to Section 5.01(a) of the LLC Agreement.
Tax Liability Distributions
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
Terminating Member
 
"" means, if Ashland is the Terminating Member, the Ashland Membership Interests and, if Marathon is the Terminating Member, the Marathon Membership Interests.
Terminating Member's Membership Interests
 
"" means, if Ashland is the Terminating Member, the Ashland Percentage Interest and, if Marathon is the Terminating Member, the Marathon Percentage Interest.
Terminating Member's Percentage Interest
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
Termination Notice
 
"" means any day on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for business.
Trading Day
 
"" means an underwritten public offering of Securities pursuant to an effective Registration Statement under the Securities Act.
Underwritten Public Offering
 
"" means, for purposes of Section 1.03, a material adverse effect on the ability of USX to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
USX Material Adverse Effect
 
"" means the securities of USX (i) having the power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors of USX (whether or not any senior class of stock has voting power by reason of any contingency) or (ii) convertible into or exchangeable for securities of USX having the power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors of USX (whether or not any senior class of stock has voting power by reason of any contingency); , that each class of common equity securities of USX, and any securities of USX convertible into or exchangeable for any such class, shall constitute USX Voting Securities regardless of whether such class has the power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors of USX.
USX Voting Securities
provided
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(h).
Valvoline
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(h).
Valvoline Business
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(d).
Valvoline Competitive Business Assets
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(d).
Valvoline Competitive Third Party
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(a).
Weighted Average Price
 
SECTION 1.02. Within 30 days following the date on which the United States Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics for all Urban Areas publishes the Price Index for (a) the month of December, 2002 and (b) thereafter, the month of December in each five year anniversary of the year 2002 (the year 2002 and each such five year anniversary being an ""), the Company shall determine whether the Average Annual Level for the applicable Adjustment Year exceeds the Base Level. If the Company determines that the Average Annual Level for such Adjustment Year exceeds the Base Level, then the Company shall increase or decrease each of the following amounts (each, an "") to an amount calculated by multiplying the relevant Adjustable Amount by a fraction whose numerator is the Average Annual Level for such Adjustment Year and whose denominator is the Base Level: (i) the two million dollars ($2,000,000) amount set forth in the definition of "Ashland Material Adverse Effect"; (ii) the two million dollars ($2,000,000) amount set forth in the definition of "Company Material Adverse Effect"; (iii) the two million dollars ($2,000,000) amount set forth in the definition of "Marathon Material Adverse Effect"; (iv) the $250 million amount set forth in clause (ii) of the definition of "Permitted Investments" in Section 1.01; and (v) the $100 million and $25 million amounts set forth in Section 10.01(a); that in no event shall any Adjustable Amount be decreased below the initial amount thereof set forth herein. Within five Business Days after making such determinations, the Company shall distribute to each Member a notice (an "") setting forth: (A) the amount by which the Average Annual Level for such Adjustment Year exceeded the
Adjustable Amounts.
Adjustment Year
Adjustable Amount
provided
Adjustable Amounts Notice
 
Base Level and (B) the calculations of any adjustments made to the Adjustable Amounts pursuant to this Section 1.02. Any adjustment made to the Adjustable Amounts pursuant to this Section 1.02 shall be effective as of the date on which the Company delivers to the Members the related Adjustable Amounts Notice.
 
SECTION 1.03. Each of Marathon and USX represents and warrants to Ashland, and Ashland represents and warrants to each of Marathon and USX, in each case as of the date hereof and will be required to represent and warrant as of any Closing Date, as follows:
Representations and Warranties.
 
(a) It is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation with the power and authority to own, lease and operate its assets and to conduct the business now being or to be conducted by it. It is duly authorized, qualified or licensed to do business as a foreign corporation or other organization in good standing in each of the jurisdictions in which its right, title or interest in or to any of the assets held by it or the business conducted by it requires such authorization, qualification or licensing, except where the failure to be so authorized, qualified, licensed or in good standing would not have and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Marathon Material Adverse Effect, a USX Material Adverse Effect or an Ashland Material Adverse Effect, as the case may be. It has all requisite power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder.
Due Organization, Good Standing and Power.
 
(b) The execution and delivery by it of this Agreement and the consummation by it of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized and approved by all necessary corporate or other action on its part. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by it. This Agreement is its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms.
Authorization and Validity of Agreements.
 
(c) Except as set forth on to the Marathon, USX or Ashland Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Disclosure
Lack of Conflicts.
Schedule 1.03(c)
 
Letter, as applicable, neither the execution and delivery by it of this Agreement nor the consummation by it of the transactions contemplated hereby does or will (i) conflict with, or result in the breach of any provision of, its charter or by-laws or similar governing or organizational documents or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) violate any Applicable Law or any permit, order, award, injunction, decree or judgment of any Governmental Authority applicable to or binding upon it or any of its subsidiaries or to which any of their respective properties or assets is subject, (iii) violate, conflict with or result in the breach or termination of, or otherwise give any other person the right to terminate, or constitute a default, an event of default or an event which with notice, lapse of time or both, would constitute a default or an event of default under the terms of, any mortgage, indenture, deed of trust or lease or other agreement or instrument to which it or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which any of their respective properties or assets is subject, except, in the case of clauses (ii) or (iii), for such violations, conflicts, breaches, terminations and defaults which would not have and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually, a Company Material Adverse Effect.
 
(d) Except as set forth on to the Marathon, USX or Ashland Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Disclosure Letter, as applicable, no Governmental Approval or other consent is required by it for the execution and delivery by it of this Agreement or for the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby except (a) for such Governmental Approvals or other consents as have been obtained or are contemplated hereby to be obtained after Closing or (b) where the failure to obtain such Governmental Approvals or other consents would not have and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually, a Company Material Adverse Effect.
No Consents.
Schedule 1.03(d)
 
 
 
SECTION 2.01. (a) If Ashland or Marathon (the "") notifies the Board of Managers of the Company and the other Member (the "") in writing pursuant to Section 2.03 of the LLC Agreement that it wants to terminate the term of the Company at the end of the Initial Term or any succeeding 10-year period (any such notice being a ""), then, subject to Section 2.01(b), the Non-Terminating Member shall have the right, exercisable at any time during the 180-day period following its receipt from the Terminating Member of a Termination Notice, to purchase from the Terminating Member on the Scheduled Closing Date (the ""), and the Terminating Member shall thereupon be required to sell to the Non-Terminating Member on the Scheduled Closing Date, all of its Membership Interests and, in the circumstance where Ashland is the Terminating Member, the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest, for an aggregate amount equal to the purchase price (the "") set forth in Section 2.02(a), plus interest on the Special Termination Price at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate, with daily accrual of interest, for the period commencing on the Special Termination Exercise Date and ending on the Scheduled Closing Date. The Special Termination Right shall automatically terminate at the close of business on the 180th day following the Non-Terminating Member's receipt of a Termination Notice, unless previously exercised by the Non-Terminating Member in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.03.
Special Termination Right.
Terminating Member
Non-Terminating Member
Termination Notice
Special Termination Right
Special Termination Price
 
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section 2.01(a), if Marathon and Ashland each deliver a Terminating Notice to the Board of Managers of the Company and the other Member, then neither Marathon nor Ashland shall have a Special Termination Right.
 
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Special Termination Price shall be an amount equal to the product of (i) 100% of the Appraised Value of the Company multiplied by (ii) the Terminating Member's Percentage Interest.
Special Termination Price.
Amount.
 
(b) The Non-Terminating Member shall pay the entire Special Termination Price, together with accrued interest calculated as set forth in Section 2.01, on the Scheduled Closing Date.
Timing of Payment.
 
(c) The Non-Terminating Member shall pay the Special Termination Price, and all accrued interest, in Cash.
Form of Consideration.
 
SECTION 2.03. The Non-Terminating Member shall exercise its Special Termination Right by delivering to the Terminating Member a notice of such exercise (the ""). The date of the Terminating Member's receipt of the Special Termination Exercise Notice shall be deemed to be the date of the Non-Terminating Member's exercise of its Special Termination Right (the "") and, except as expressly provided in Sections 9.08(a) and 9.09, the Non-Terminating Member's exercise of its Special Termination Right shall thereafter be irrevocable.
Method of Exercise.
Special Termination Exercise Notice
Special Termination Exercise Date
 
 
 
SECTION 3.01. Subject to Section 3.04, at any time on and after December 31, 2004, Marathon shall have the right to purchase from Ashland on the Scheduled Closing Date (the ""), and Ashland shall thereupon be required to sell to Marathon on the Scheduled Closing Date, all of Ashland's Membership Interests and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest, for an aggregate amount equal to the purchase price (the "") set forth in Section 3.02(a), plus interest on the Marathon Call Price at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate, with daily accrual of interest, for the period commencing on the Marathon Call Exercise Date and ending on the Scheduled Closing Date.
Marathon Call Right.
Marathon Call Right
Marathon Call Price
 
SECTION 3.02. (a) The Marathon Call Price shall be an amount equal to the product of (i) 115% of the Appraised Value of the Company multiplied by (ii) Ashland's Percentage Interest.
Marathon Call Price.
Amount.
 
(b) Marathon shall pay the entire Marathon Call Price, together with accrued interest calculated as set forth in Section 3.01, on the Scheduled Closing Date.
Timing of Payment.
 
(c) Marathon shall pay the Marathon Call Price, and all accrued interest, in Cash.
Form of Consideration.
 
SECTION 3.03. Marathon shall exercise its Marathon Call Right by delivering to Ashland a notice of such exercise (the ""). The date of Ashland's receipt of the Marathon Call Exercise Notice shall be deemed to be the date of Marathon's exercise of its Marathon Call Right (the "") and, except as expressly provided in Sections 9.03(a), 9.04(a) and 9.05, Marathon's exercise of its Marathon Call Right shall thereafter be irrevocable.
Method of Exercise.
Marathon Call Exercise Notice
Marathon Call Exercise Date
 
SECTION 3.04. If prior to the Marathon Call Exercise Date, Ashland elects to Transfer its Membership Interests to a third party pursuant to Section 10.01(c) of the LLC Agreement, and in connection therewith delivers to Marathon the requisite Offer Notice pursuant to Section 10.04 of the LLC Agreement, Marathon shall not be permitted to exercise its Marathon Call Right for a period commencing on the date of Marathon's receipt of such Offer Notice and ending on the earliest of (i) 120 days (or 270 days if a second request has been made under HSR) following such receipt, (ii) the closing of such Transfer, and (iii) the date such proposed Transfer by Ashland shall have been finally abandoned. After such period, Marathon shall be entitled to exercise its Marathon Call Right.
Limitation on Marathon's Ability To Exercise its Marathon Call Right
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01. Subject to Section 4.05, at any time after December 31, 2004, Ashland shall have the right to sell to Marathon on the Scheduled Closing Date (the ""), and Marathon shall thereupon be required to purchase from Ashland on the Scheduled Closing Date, all of Ashland's Membership Interests and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest, for an
Ashland Put Right.
Ashland Put Right
 
aggregate amount equal to the purchase price (the "") set forth in Section 4.02, plus interest on the Ashland Put Price (or, in the event that Marathon elects to pay the Ashland Put Price in installments, any unpaid portion of the Ashland Put Price) at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate, with daily accrual of interest, for the period commencing on the Ashland Put Exercise Date and ending on the Scheduled Closing Date (or, in the event that Marathon elects to pay the Ashland Put Price in installments, on the applicable Scheduled Installment Payment Date).
Ashland Put Price
 
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Ashland Put Price shall be an amount equal to the sum of (i) for that portion of the Ashland Put Price to be paid to Ashland in Cash or in Marathon Debt Securities, an amount equal to the product of (x) 85% of the Appraised Value of the Company multiplied by (y) Ashland's Percentage Interest multiplied by (z) the percentage of the Ashland Put Price to be paid to Ashland in Cash and/or in Marathon Debt Securities, plus (ii) for that portion of the Ashland Put Price to be paid to Ashland in Marathon Equity Securities, an amount equal to the product of (x) 90% of the Appraised Value of the Company multiplied by (y) Ashland's Percentage Interest multiplied by (z) the percentage of the Ashland Put Price to be paid to Ashland in Marathon Equity Securities.
Ashland Put Price.
Amount.
 
(b) Subject to Section 4.02(d), Marathon shall have the right to elect, by specifying in the Ashland Put Price Election Notice, to (i) pay the entire Ashland Put Price on the Scheduled Closing Date or (ii) pay the Ashland Put Price in three equal installments (each an ""), in either case, together with accrued interest calculated as set forth in Section 4.01. If Marathon elects to pay the Ashland Put Price in installments, Marathon shall pay Ashland (x) the first Installment Payment on the Scheduled Closing Date; (y) the second Installment Payment on the first anniversary of the Scheduled Closing Date; and (z) the third Installment Payment on the second anniversary of the Scheduled Closing Date (each such date being a ""), in each case, together with accrued interest calculated as set forth in Section 4.01.
Timing of Payment.
Installment Payment
Scheduled Installment Payment Date
 
(c) Subject to Section 4.02(d), Marathon shall have the right to elect, by specifying in an Ashland Put Price Election Notice, to pay
Form of Consideration.
 
the Ashland Put Price (i) entirely in Cash or (ii) in a combination of Cash and Securities; that at least 50% of the Ashland Put Price (and at least 50% of each Installment Payment if Marathon elects to pay in installments) shall consist of Cash; , that the sum of (x) the Fair Market Value of any Securities issued to Ashland on the Closing Date (or on any Installment Payment Date) plus (y) the amount of Cash paid to Ashland on the Closing Date (or on such Installment Payment Date) in respect of the Ashland Put Price, in each case exclusive of any interest paid thereon, shall equal the Ashland Put Price (or the applicable Installment Payment); and , that in no event shall Marathon or USX issue to Ashland an amount of Marathon Equity Securities that would cause Ashland to own, directly or indirectly, at the Closing or on any Scheduled Installment Payment Date in the aggregate 10% or more of the number of shares of such class of Marathon Equity Securities that are outstanding on the Closing Date and are publicly held (it being understood and agreed that for purposes of this Section 4.02(c), any shares of such class of Marathon Equity Securities that are either held by Marathon or any of its Affiliates or subject to restrictions on transfer shall not be considered publicly held). Marathon shall pay all accrued interest in Cash.
provided
provided
further
provided
further
 
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement:
Consequences of Failure to Make Certain Elections.
 
(i) if Marathon fails to deliver to Ashland an Ashland Put Price Election Notice within the requisite time period set forth in Section 4.04(a) or if Marathon delivers to Ashland an Ashland Put Price Election Notice that states that the entire Ashland Put Price will be paid at Closing but does not state whether any portion of the Ashland Put Price will be paid in Securities, Marathon shall thereafter be required to pay Ashland the entire Ashland Put Price in Cash on the Closing Date;
 
(ii) if Marathon delivers to Ashland an Ashland Put Price Election Notice pursuant to Section 4.04(a) that does not indicate whether it is electing to pay the Ashland Put Price in installments, Marathon shall thereafter be required to pay Ashland the entire Ashland Put Price on the Closing Date;
 
(iii) if Marathon delivers to Ashland an Ashland Put Price Election Notice pursuant to Section 4.04(a) that does not indicate the form of consideration regarding the Ashland Put Price (or, if such Ashland Put Price Election Notice states that Marathon has elected to pay the Ashland Put Price in installments, the first Installment Payment), Marathon shall thereafter be required to pay Ashland the entire Ashland Put Price (or first Installment Payment) in Cash on the Closing Date;
 
(iv) if Marathon has elected in its Ashland Put Price Election Notice delivered pursuant to Section 4.04(b) to pay the Ashland Put Price in installments and thereafter if Marathon fails to deliver to Ashland an Ashland Put Price Election Notice within the requisite time period set forth in Section 4.04(b) for any Scheduled Installment Payment Date, Marathon shall thereafter be required to pay Ashland the entire Installment Payment in Cash on the applicable Installment Payment Date;
 
(v) if Marathon elects in any Ashland Put Price Election Notice to issue (or to have USX issue) to Ashland Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities on the Closing Date (or applicable Installment Payment Date) and at any time prior to the Closing Date (or such Installment Payment Date), such Securities cease for whatever reason to be Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities, Marathon shall thereafter be required to pay Ashland the entire Ashland Put Price (or the applicable Installment Payment) in Cash on the Closing Date (or applicable Installment Payment Date); and
 
(vi) if Marathon elects in any Ashland Put Price Election Notice to issue (or to have USX issue) to Ashland Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities on the Closing Date (or applicable Installment Payment Date) and Marathon fails to give the related Required Disclosure on the applicable Required Disclosure Date, Marathon shall thereafter be required to pay to Ashland the entire Ashland Put Price (or the applicable Installment Payment) in Cash on the Closing Date (or on such Installment Payment Date).
 
SECTION 4.03. Ashland may exercise its Ashland Put Right by delivering to Marathon a notice of such exercise (the ""). The date of Marathon's receipt of the Ashland Put Exercise Notice shall be deemed to be the date of Ashland's exercise of its Ashland Put Right (the "") and, except as expressly provided in Sections 9.03(a), 9.04(a) and 9.05, Ashland's exercise of its Ashland Put Right shall thereafter be irrevocable.
Method of Exercise.
Ashland Put Exercise Notice
Ashland Put Exercise Date
 
SECTION 4.04. (a) Within five Business Days after the Appraised Value Determination Date, Marathon shall notify Ashland (a "") as to (i) whether it elects to pay the Ashland Put Price (A) entirely at Closing or (B) in three equal installments and (ii) whether Marathon elects to pay part of the Ashland Put Price or first Installment Payment, as applicable, at Closing in Securities, and, if so, (A) the name of the issuer of such Securities, (B) the type of such Securities, (C) the portion of the Ashland Put Price or first Installment Payment, as applicable, which will be comprised of such Securities, (D) whether it elects to impose a Holding Period with respect to any of such Securities and (E) the length of any such Holding Period.
Ashland Put Price Election Notice.
Notice re: Closing.
Ashland Put Price Election Notice
 
(b) Within 45 days prior to each of the second and third Scheduled Installment Payment Dates, if applicable, Marathon shall deliver to Ashland an Ashland Put Price Election Notice as to whether Marathon elects to pay part of the applicable Installment Payment in Securities, and, if so, (i) the name of the issuer of such Securities, (ii) the type of Securities, (iii) the portion of the applicable Installment Payment which will be comprised of such Securities, (iv) whether it elects to impose a Holding Period with respect to any of such Securities and (v) the length of any such Holding Period. The date of Ashland's receipt of any Ashland Put Price Election Notice is referred to herein as the "" with respect to such Ashland Put Price Election Notice.
Notices re: Second and Third Scheduled Installment Payment Dates.
Ashland Put Price Election Date
 
(c) If Marathon elects to pay any part of the Ashland Put Price in Securities, then in addition to the information provided to Ashland in the Ashland Put Price Election Notice pursuant to Section 4.04(a) or 4.04(b),
Additional Information With Respect to Securities.
 
Marathon shall provide Ashland and its advisors with any other information concerning such Securities that Ashland or its advisors may reasonably request.
 
(d) . Marathon's elections as set forth in an Ashland Put Price Election Notice shall be irrevocable upon Ashland's receipt of such Ashland Put Price Election Notice; that at any time prior to the date that is ten Business Days prior to the Closing Date (or applicable Installment Payment Date) Marathon shall have the right to change a previous election to pay part of the Ashland Put Price (or applicable Installment Payment) in Securities to an election to pay a greater portion of or the entire Ashland Put Price (or applicable Installment Payment) in Cash, or to change a previous election to pay the Ashland Put Price in installments to an election to pay the entire or remaining Ashland Put Price on the Closing Date (or applicable Installment Payment Date).
Irrevocability of Elections
provided
 
SECTION 4.05. If prior to the Ashland Put Exercise Date, Marathon elects to Transfer all of its Membership Interests to a third party pursuant to Section 10.01(c) of the LLC Agreement, and in connection therewith delivers to Ashland the requisite Offer Notice pursuant to Section 10.04 of the LLC Agreement, Ashland shall not be permitted to exercise its Ashland Put Right for a period commencing on the date of Ashland's receipt of such Offer Notice and ending on the earlier of (i) 120 days (270 days if a second request has been made under HSR) following such receipt, (ii) the closing of such Transfer, and (iii) the date such proposed Transfer by Marathon shall have been finally abandoned. After such period, Ashland shall be entitled to exercise its Ashland Put Right.
Limitation on Ashland's Ability To Exercise its Ashland Put Right
 
 
 
SECTION 5.01. (a) (i) Subject to Sections 9.04(a), 9.05, 9.08(a) and 9.09, in the event that Marathon exercises its Marathon Call Right or its Special Termination Right, or in the event that Ashland exercises its Ashland Put Right, then on the relevant
Termination of Certain Distributions
Distributions to Ashland.
 
Exercise Date, Ashland shall cause each of its Representatives to authorize Marathon's Representatives to cause the Company to withhold from Ashland all distributions of Distributable Cash and all Tax Liability Distributions that Ashland would otherwise be entitled to receive pursuant to Article V of the LLC Agreement during the period from the relevant Exercise Date to the Closing Date, other than (i) all distributions of Distributable Cash and Tax Liability Distributions that are attributable to any Fiscal Quarter that ends on or prior to the close of business on the relevant Exercise Date, (ii) a pro rata portion of all distributions of Distributable Cash and Tax Liability Distributions that are attributable to the portion of a Fiscal Quarter that begins prior to the relevant Exercise Date and that ends after such Exercise Date and (iii) all Tax Liability Distributions that are attributable to the period from the relevant Exercise Date to the Closing Date to the extent that Ashland has any Tax Liability during such period ("").
Ashland Exercise Period Distributions
 
(ii) Any Ashland Exercise Period Distributions withheld from Ashland pursuant to Section 5.01(a)(i) shall be distributed by the Company as follows:
 
(A) if at the time such distribution is so withheld, either (1) USX's Long Term Debt has an Investment Grade Rating and USX has agreed in writing to guarantee (which guarantee shall be a guarantee of payment) Marathon's obligations to pay to Ashland in the circumstances set forth in Sections 9.04(a) and 9.05 (pursuant to a guarantee agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Ashland and its counsel) or (2) Marathon's Long Term Debt has an Investment Grade Rating, then the Company shall pay such Ashland Exercise Period Distributions directly to Marathon; and
 
(B) if at the time such distribution is so withheld, (1) Marathon's Long Term Debt does not have an Investment Grade Rating and (2) either (x) USX's Long Term Debt does not have an Investment Grade Rating or (y) USX's Long Term Debt has an Investment Grade Rating but USX has not agreed in writing to guarantee Marathon's payment obligations described in clause (2) of subparagraph (A) above, then Marathon's Representatives shall cause the Company to, and the Company shall, deposit all Ashland Exercise Period
 
Distributions into an escrow account to be established by the Company (the "") and to release such deposits from the Escrow Account only in accordance with this Agreement. All amounts in the Escrow Account shall be invested only in Permitted Investments.
Escrow Account
 
(b) (i) Subject to Sections 9.08(a) and 9.09, in the event that Ashland exercises its Special Termination Right in accordance with the terms hereof, then on the Special Termination Exercise Date, Marathon shall cause each of its Representatives to authorize Ashland's Representatives to cause the Company to withhold from Marathon all distributions of Distributable Cash and all Tax Liability Distributions that Marathon would otherwise be entitled to receive pursuant to Article V of the LLC Agreement during the period from the Special Termination Exercise Date to the Closing Date, other than (A) all distributions of Distributable Cash and Tax Liability Distributions that are attributable to any Fiscal Quarter that ends on or prior to the close of business on the Special Termination Exercise Date, (B) a pro rata portion of all distributions of Distributable Cash and Tax Liability Distributions that are attributable to the portion of a Fiscal Quarter that begins prior to the Special Termination Exercise Date and that ends after the Special Termination Exercise Date and (C) all Tax Liability Distributions that are attributable to the period from the Special Termination Exercise Date to the Closing Date to the extent that Marathon has any Tax Liability during such period ("").
Distributions to Marathon.
Marathon Exercise Period Distributions
 
(ii) Any Marathon Exercise Period Distributions withheld from Ashland pursuant to Section 5.01(a) shall be distributed by the Company as follows:
 
(A) if at the time such distribution is so withheld, Ashland's Long Term Debt has an Investment Grade Rating, then the Company shall pay such Marathon Exercise Period Distributions directly to Ashland; and
 
(B) if at the time such distribution is so withheld, Ashland's Long Term Debt does not have an Investment Grade Rating, then Ashland's Representatives shall cause the Company to, and the Company shall, deposit all Marathon Exercise Period Distributions into an Escrow Account and to release such deposits from the
 
Escrow Account only in accordance with this Agreement. All amounts in the Escrow Account shall be invested only in Permitted Investments.
 
SECTION 5.02. (a) Subject to Sections 9.04(a), 9.05, 9.08(a) and 9.09, in the event that Marathon exercises its Marathon Call Right or its Special Termination Right, or in the event that Ashland exercises its Ashland Put Right, then on the relevant Exercise Date, Ashland shall cause each of its Representatives to grant to Marathon's Representatives a proxy (the "") which shall authorize Marathon's Representatives to cast each Ashland Representative's vote at a Board of Managers' meeting (but not by written consent in lieu of a meeting in accordance with Section 8.04(h) of the LLC Agreement unless Marathon shall have given Ashland prior written notice of the specific action to be taken by such written consent) in favor of or against any of the Super Majority Decisions described in Sections 8.08 of the LLC Agreement, as Marathon's Representatives shall, in their sole discretion, determine, other than any vote with respect to a Super Majority Decision described in Sections 8.08(c) (admission of a new Member; issuance of additional Membership Interests), 8.08(d) (additional capital contributions), 8.08(i) (change in Company's independent auditors), 8.08(j) (amendments to LLC Agreement or other Transaction Documents to which Company or its subsidiaries is a party), 8.08(l) (bankruptcy), 8.08(m) (modification of provisions re: distributions of Distributable Cash) or 8.08(q) (delegation to a Member of power to unilaterally bind the Company), with respect to which Ashland's Representatives shall retain all of their rights and authority to vote; that Marathon shall not, and shall cause each of its Representatives not to, take any action through the exercise of the Ashland Representatives Revocable Proxies to cause the Company's status as a partnership for Federal income tax purposes to terminate prior to the Closing Date.
Revocable Proxies.
Ashland Representatives Revocable Proxies.
Ashland Representatives Revocable Proxies
provided
 
(b) Subject to Sections 9.08(a) and 9.09, in the event that Ashland exercises its Special Termination Right, then on the Special Exercise Date, Marathon shall cause each of its Representatives to grant to Ashland's Representatives a proxy (the "") which shall authorize Ashland's Representatives to cast each
Marathon Representative Revocable Proxy.
Marathon Representatives Revocable Proxies
 
Marathon Representative's vote at a Board of Managers' meeting (but not by written consent in lieu of a meeting in accordance with Section 8.04(h) of the LLC Agreement unless Ashland shall have given Marathon prior written notice of the specific action to be taken by such written consent) in favor of or against any of the Super Majority Decisions described in Sections 8.08 of the LLC Agreement, as Ashland's Representatives shall, in their sole discretion, determine, other than any vote with respect to a Super Majority Decision described in Section 8.08(c), 8.08(d), 8.08(i), 8.08(j), 8.08(l), 8.08(m) or 8.08(q) (except as expressly provided in Section 5.01), with respect to which Marathon's Representatives shall retain all of their rights and authority to vote; that Ashland shall not, and shall cause each of its Representatives not to, take any action through the exercise of the Marathon Representatives Revocable Proxies to cause the Company's status as a partnership for Federal income tax purposes to terminate prior to the Closing Date.
provided
 
(c) Subject to Sections 9.04(a), 9.05, 9.08(a) and 9.09, in the event that Marathon exercises its Marathon Call Right or its Special Termination Right, or in the event that Ashland exercises its Ashland Put Right, then on the relevant Exercise Date, Ashland shall grant to Marathon, or such other person as Marathon shall designate, a proxy (the "") which shall authorize Marathon and its Representatives (or such other person) to exercise on Ashland's behalf, all of Ashland's voting rights with respect to the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest.
Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Revocable Proxy.
Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Revocable Proxy
 
 
 
SECTION 6.01. (a) If Marathon exercises its Special Termination Right or its Marathon Call Right or if Ashland exercises its Special Termination Right or its Ashland Put Right, then for a period of 60 days following the relevant Exercise Date, Marathon and Ashland shall negotiate in good faith to seek to reach agreement as to the Market Value of the Company. If Marathon and Ashland reach such an agreement, then the Market Value of the Company shall be deemed to be the amount so agreed upon by Marathon and Ashland.
Determination of Appraised Value of the Company.
Negotiation Period.
 
(b) In the event Marathon and Ashland are unable to reach an agreement as to the Market Value of the Company within the 60-day period referred to in Section 6.01(a), then within five Business Days after the expiration of such 60-day period (such fifth Business Day being referred to herein as the ""), Marathon and Ashland each shall select a nationally recognized investment banking firm to (i) prepare a report which (A) sets forth such investment banking firm's determination of the Market Value of the Company (which shall be a single amount as opposed to a range) and (B) includes work papers which indicate the basis for and calculation of the Market Value of the Company (a "") and (ii) deliver to Marathon or Ashland, as the case may be, an oral and written opinion addressed to such party as to the Market Value of the Company. The fees and expenses of each investment banking firm shall be paid by the party selecting such investment banking firm. Each of Marathon and Ashland shall instruct its respective investment banking firm to (i) not consult with the other investment banking firm with respect to its view as to the Market Value of the Company prior to the time that both investment banking firms have delivered their respective opinions to Marathon or Ashland, as applicable, (ii) determine the Market Value of the Company in accordance with Section 6.01(c), (iii) deliver their respective 6.01 Appraisal Reports, together with their oral and written opinions as to the Market Value of the Company (the ""), within 60 days after the 6.01 Appraisal Process Commencement Date, and (iv) deliver a copy of its written opinion and its 6.01 Appraisal Report to the Company, the other party and the other party's investment banking firm at the time it delivers its oral and written opinion to Marathon or Ashland, as applicable.
Appraisal Process.
6.01 Appraisal Process Commencement Date
6.01 Appraisal Report
6.01 Initial Opinion Values
 
If the 6.01 Initial Opinion Values differ and the lesser 6.01 Initial Opinion Value equals or exceeds 90% of the greater 6.01 Initial Opinion Value, the Market Value of the Company shall be deemed to be an amount equal to (i) the sum of the 6.01 Initial Opinion Values divided by (ii) two.
 
If the 6.01 Initial Opinion Values differ and the lesser 6.01 Initial Opinion Value is less than 90% of the greater 6.01 Initial Opinion Value, then:
 
(i) within two Business Days after both investment banking firms have delivered their respective opinions to Marathon or Ashland, as applicable, each investment banking firm shall, at a single meeting at which Marathon, Ashland, the Company and the other investment banking firm are present,make a presentation with respect to its 6.01 Initial Opinion Value. At such presentation, Marathon, Ashland, the Company and the other investment banking firm shall be entitled to ask questions as to the basis for and the calculation of such investment banking firm's 6.01 Initial Opinion Value; and
 
(ii) Marathon and Ashland shall, within five Business Days after the date Marathon and Ashland receive the 6.01 Initial Opinion Values (such fifth Business Day being referred to herein as the ""), jointly select a third nationally recognized investment banking firm to (A) prepare a 6.01 Appraisal Report and (B) deliver an oral and written opinion addressed to Marathon and Ashland as to the Market Value of the Company. The fees and expenses of such third investment banking firm shall be paid 50% by Marathon and 50% by Ashland. Such third investment banking firm shall not be provided with the 6.01 Initial Opinion Values and shall not consult with the initial investment banking firms with respect thereto. During such five-Business Day period, Marathon and Ashland shall negotiate in good faith to independently reach an agreement as to the Market Value of the Company. If Marathon and Ashland reach such an agreement, then the Market Value of the Company shall be deemed to be the amount so agreed upon by Marathon and Ashland. If Marathon and Ashland are unable to reach such an agreement, then Marathon and Ashland shall instruct such third investment banking firm to (A) determine the Market Value of the Company in accordance with Section 6.01(c) and (B) deliver its 6.01 Appraisal Report, together with its oral and written opinion (the ""), within 60 days after the 6.01 Subsequent Appraisal Process Commencement Date. The Market Value of the Company in such circumstance shall
6.01 Subsequent Appraisal Process Commencement Date
6.01 Third Opinion Value
 
be deemed to be an amount equal to (A) the sum of (x) the 6.01 Third Opinion Value plus (y) whichever of the two 6.01 Initial Opinion Values is closer to the 6.01 Third Opinion Value (or, if the 6.01 Third Opinion Value is exactly halfway between the two 6.01 Initial Opinion Values, the 6.01 Third Opinion Value), divided by (B) two.
 
(c) For purposes of this Agreement, the Market Value of the Company (the "") means the fair market value of the combined common equity of the Company as of the relevant Exercise Date, (including, in the circumstance where Marathon has exercised its Marathon Call Right or its Special Termination Right or Ashland has exercised its Ashland Put Right, the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest) assuming the consummation of a transaction designed to achieve the highest value of such combined common equity. In determining the Market Value of the Company, (i) consideration should be given as to (A) all possible transaction participants (other than Marathon or Ashland or their respective Affiliates) and categories of possible transactions; (B) a range of analytical methodologies, potentially including, but not limited to, the following: comparable trading analysis, comparable transaction analysis, discounted cash flow analysis, leveraged buyout analysis and break-up analysis; and (C) the value to the Company of all indemnification obligations of Marathon, USX and Ashland in favor of the Company pursuant to any Transaction Document (including, without limitation, Article IX of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement), to the extent such indemnification obligations remain in effect after the Closing and (ii) no separate incremental value will be attributed to the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest. In determining the Market Value of the Company, no consideration should be given to the values that are initially assigned to assets of the Company for purchase accounting or tax accounting purposes. The Market Value of the Company as determined pursuant to this Section 6.01 is referred to herein as the "", and the date on which the Market Value of the Company is so determined is referred to herein as the "".
Definition of Market Value of the Company.
Market Value of the Company
Appraised Value of the Company
Appraised Value Determination Date
 
 
 
SECTION 7.01. The fair market value of any Securities to be issued to Ashland on the Closing Date and on any subsequent Installment Payment Date, shall be determined pursuant to the following procedures (the fair market value of such Securities as so determined being the "" of such Securities).
General
Fair Market Value
 
SECTION 7.02. The Fair Market Value of any Marathon Debt Securities shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the aggregate stated principal amount of such Marathon Debt Securities.
Determination of Fair Market Value of Marathon Debt Securities.
 
SECTION 7.03. (a) The Fair Market Value of any Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities to be issued to Ashland on the Closing Date or applicable Installment Payment Date for which Marathon has not elected a Holding Period shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the product of (i) the aggregate number of such Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities to be issued to Ashland multiplied by (ii) the Weighted Average Price (as defined below) of such Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities on the National Market System of the NASDAQ or the relevant National Securities Exchange, as reported by or, if not reported thereby, as reported by any other authoritative source, for the ten full Trading Days immediately preceding the Business Day immediately preceding the Closing Date or applicable Installment Payment Date; that at least five Trading Days prior to the commencement of such ten full Trading Day period (the ""), Marathon shall have made appropriate public disclosure (including by issuing a press release and filing a copy of such press release with the Commission) of (A) the existence of the Transaction, (B) the Ashland Put Price and (C) the information required to be included in the Ashland Put Price Election Notice (each such public disclosure being a ""). Marathon shall provide Ashland with a copy of each Required Disclosure prior to Marathon making such disclosure public. Any such Required Disclosure shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Ashland
Determination of Fair Market Value of Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities.
Fair Market Value Where There is No Holding Period.
The Wall Street Journal
provided
Required Disclosure Date
Required Disclosure
 
and its counsel. For purposes of this Section 7.03(a), the "" means the quotient of (1) the product of (x) the number of shares in each trade in such Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities that occurred during such ten full Trading Day period multiplied by (y) the price at which each such trade occurred, divided by (2) the total number of shares traded in such Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities that occurred during such ten full Trading Day period. In the event of (i) any split, combination or reclassification of the class of Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities to be issued to Ashland on the Closing Date or applicable Installment Payment Date, (ii) any issuance or the authorization of any issuance of any other securities in exchange or in substitution for the shares of such class of Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities or (iii) any issuance or declaration of cash or stock dividends or other distributions with respect to such class of Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities, in each case at any time during the ten full Trading Day period referred to above, Marathon and Ashland shall make such adjustment to the Fair Market Value of such Actively Traded Equity Securities determined pursuant to this Section 7.03(a) as Marathon and Ashland shall mutually agree so as to preserve the economic benefits to Ashland expected on the date of this Agreement as a result of the issuance to it of such Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities as part of the Ashland Put Price.
Weighted Average Price
 
(b) In the event that Marathon elects pursuant to Section 4.04(a) or 4.04(b) to impose a Holding Period on any Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities, the Fair Market Value of such Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities shall be deemed to be an amount equal to (i) the Fair Market Value of such Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities as determined pursuant to Section 7.03(a), minus (ii) a discount factor that takes into account such limitation on Ashland's ability to freely trade such Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities (a "") The 7.03(b) Discount Amount with respect to the Fair Market Value of such Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities shall be determined pursuant to the following procedures:
Fair Market Value Where There is a Holding Period.
7.03(b) Discount Amount
 
(i) For a period of 15 days following the applicable Ashland Put Price Election Date, Marathon and Ashland will negotiate in good faith to seek to reach an agreement as to the 7.03(b)
Negotiation Period.
 
Discount Amount. If Marathon and Ashland reach such an agreement, then the 7.03(b) Discount Amount shall be deemed to be the amount so agreed upon by Marathon and Ashland.
 
(ii) In the event Marathon and Ashland are unable to reach an agreement as to the 7.03(b) Discount Amount within the 15-day period referred to in clause (i) above, then within five Business Days after the expiration of such 15-day period (such fifth Business Day being referred to herein as the ""), Marathon and Ashland each shall select a nationally recognized investment banking firm to (A) prepare a report which (1) sets forth such investment banking firm's determination of the 7.03(b) Discount Amount (which shall be a single amount as opposed to a range) and (2) includes work papers which indicate the basis for and the calculation of the 7.03(b) Discount Amount (a "") and (B) deliver to Marathon or Ashland, as the case may be, an oral and written opinion addressed to such party as to the 7.03(b) Discount Amount. The fees and expenses of each investment banking firm shall be paid by the party selecting such investment banking firm. Each of Marathon and Ashland shall instruct its respective investment banking firm to (i) not consult with the other investment banking firm with respect to its view as to the 7.03(b) Discount Amount prior to the time that both investment banking firms have delivered their respective opinions to Marathon and Ashland, as applicable, (ii) deliver their respective 7.03(b) Appraisal Reports, together with their oral and written opinions as to the 7.03(b) Discount Amount (the ""), within 15 days after the 7.03(b) Appraisal Process Commencement Date, and (iii) deliver a copy of its written opinion and its 7.03(b) Appraisal Report to the Company, the other party and the other party's investment banking firm at the time it delivers its oral and written opinion to Marathon or Ashland, as applicable.
Appraisal Process.
7.03(b) Appraisal Process Commencement Date
7.03(b) Appraisal Report
7.03(b) Initial Opinion Values
 
If the 7.03(b) Initial Opinion Values differ and the lesser 7.03(b) Initial Opinion Value equals or exceeds 90% of the greater 7.03(b) Initial Opinion Value, the 7.03(b) Discount Amount shall be deemed to
 
be an amount equal to (1) the sum of the 7.03(b) Initial Opinion Values divided by (2) two.
 
If the 7.03(b) Initial Opinion Values differ and the lesser 7.03(b) Initial Opinion Value is less than 90% of the greater 7.03(b) Initial Opinion Value, then:
 
(i) within two Business Days after both investment banking firms have delivered their respective opinions to Marathon or Ashland, as applicable, each investment banking firm shall, at a single meeting at which Marathon, Ashland, the Company and the other investment banking firm are present, make a presentation with respect to its 7.03(b) Initial Opinion Value. At such presentation, Marathon, Ashland, the Company and the other investment banking firm shall be entitled to ask questions as to the basis for and the calculation of such investment banking firm's 7.03(b) Initial Opinion Value; and
 
(ii) Marathon and Ashland shall, within five Business Days after the date Marathon and Ashland receive the 7.03(b) Initial Opinion Values (such fifth Business Day being referred to herein as the ""), jointly select a third nationally recognized investment banking firm to (i) prepare a 7.03(b) Appraisal Report and (ii) deliver an oral and written opinion addressed to Marathon and Ashland as to the 7.03(b) Discount Amount. The fees and expenses of such third investment banking firm shall be paid 50% by Marathon and 50% by Ashland. Such third investment banking firm shall not be provided with the 7.03(b) Initial Opinion Values and shall not consult with the initial investment banking firms with respect thereto. During such five-Business Day period, Marathon and Ashland shall negotiate in good faith to independently reach an agreement as to the 7.03(b) Discount Amount. If Marathon and Ashland reach such an agreement, then the 7.03(b) Discount Amount shall be deemed to be the amount so agreed upon by Marathon and Ashland. If Marathon and Ashland are unable to reach such an agreement, then Marathon and Ashland shall instruct such third investment banking firm to deliver its 7.03(b) Appraisal Report, together with its oral and written opinion as to the 7.03(b) Discount Amount (the ""),
7.03(b) Subsequent Appraisal Process Commencement Date
7.03(b) Third Opinion Value
 
within 15 days after the 7.03(b) Subsequent Appraisal Process Commencement Date. The 7.03(b) Discount Amount in such circumstance shall be deemed to be an amount equal to (1) the sum of (x) the 7.03(b) Third Opinion Value plus (y) whichever of the two 7.03(b) Initial Opinion Values is closer to the 7.03(b) Third Opinion Value (or, if the 7.03(b) Third Opinion Value is exactly halfway between the two 7.03(b) Initial Opinion Values, the 7.03(b) Third Opinion Value), divided by (2) two.
 
SECTION 7.04. (a) If Marathon proposes to issue (or to have issued) to Ashland Marathon Equity Securities that are not Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities, then for a period of 15 days following the applicable Ashland Put Price Election Date, Marathon and Ashland will negotiate in good faith to seek to reach an agreement as to the Fair Market Value of such Marathon Equity Securities, taking into account, if there is a Holding Period, a discount factor that takes into account such limitation on Ashland's ability to freely trade such Marathon Equity Securities (a ""). If Marathon and Ashland reach such an agreement, then the Fair Market Value of such Marathon Equity Securities shall be deemed to be the amount so agreed upon by Marathon and Ashland.
Determination of Fair Market Value of Non-Actively Traded Marathon Equity Securities
Negotiation Period.
7.04 Discount Amount
 
(b) In the event Marathon and Ashland are unable to reach an agreement as to such Fair Market Value of Marathon Equity Securities and such 7.04 Discount Amount, if any, within the 15-day period referred to in clause (a) above, then within five Business Days after the expiration of such 15-day period (such fifth Business Day being referred to herein as the ""), Marathon and Ashland each shall select a nationally recognized investment banking firm to (i) prepare a report which (1) sets forth such investment banking firm's determination of the Fair Market Value of such Marathon Equity Securities (which shall be a single amount as opposed to a range), taking into account, if there is a Holding Period, a 7.04 Discount Amount, which is determined by such investment banking firm, and (2) includes work papers which separately indicate the basis for and the calculation of the Fair Market Value of such Marathon Equity Securities and, if there is a Holding Period, the basis for and the calculation of the 7.04 Discount Amount (a "
Appraisal Process.
7.04 Appraisal Process Commencement Date
7.04
 
") and (ii) deliver to Marathon or Ashland, as the case may be, an oral and written opinion addressed to such party as to the Fair Market Value of such Marathon Equity Securities (which opinion shall take into account a 7.04 Discount Amount if there is a Holding Period with respect to such Marathon Equity Securities). The fees and expenses of each investment banking firm shall be paid by the party selecting such investment banking firm. Each of Marathon and Ashland shall instruct its respective investment banking firm to (i) not consult with the other investment banking firm with respect to its view as to the Fair Market Value of such Marathon Equity Securities and the 7.04 Discount Amount prior to the time that both investment banking firms have delivered their respective opinions to Marathon and Ashland, as applicable, (ii) deliver their respective 7.04 Appraisal Reports, together with their oral and written opinions as to the Fair Market Value of such Marathon Equity Securities (the ""), within 15 days after the 7.04 Appraisal Process Commencement Date, and (iii) deliver a copy of its written opinion and its 7.04 Appraisal Report to the Company, the other party and the other party's investment banking firm at the time it delivers its oral and written opinion to Marathon or Ashland, as applicable.
Appraisal Report
7.04 Initial Opinion Values
 
If the 7.04 Initial Opinion Values differ and the lesser 7.04 Initial Opinion Value equals or exceeds 90% of the greater 7.04 Initial Opinion Value, the Fair Market Value of such Marathon Equity Securities shall be deemed to be an amount equal to (1) the sum of the 7.04 Initial Opinion Values divided by (2) two.
 
If the 7.04 Initial Opinion Values differ and the lesser 7.04 Initial Opinion Value is less than 90% of the greater 7.04 Initial Opinion Value, then:
 
(i) within two Business Days after both investment banking firms have delivered their respective opinions to Marathon or Ashland, as applicable, each investment banking firm shall, at a single meeting at which Marathon, Ashland, the Company and the other investment banking firm are present, make a presentation with respect to its 7.04 Initial Opinion Value. At such presentation, Marathon, Ashland, the Company and the other investment banking firm shall be entitled to ask questions as to the basis for and the calculation of
 
such investment banking firm's 7.04 Initial Opinion Value; and
 
(ii) Marathon and Ashland shall, within five Business Days after the date Marathon and Ashland receive the 7.04 Initial Opinion Values (such fifth Business Day being referred to herein as the ""), jointly select a third nationally recognized investment banking firm to (i) prepare a 7.04 Appraisal Report and (ii) deliver an oral and written opinion addressed to Marathon and Ashland as to the Fair Market Value of such Marathon Equity Securities (which opinion shall take into account a 7.04 Discount Amount if there is a Holding Period with respect to such Marathon Equity Securities). The fees and expenses of such third investment banking firm shall be paid 50% by Marathon and 50% by Ashland. Such third investment banking firm shall not be provided with the 7.04 Initial Opinion Values and shall not consult with the initial investment banking firms with respect thereto. During such five-Business Day period, Marathon and Ashland shall negotiate in good faith to independently reach an agreement as to the Fair Market Value of such Marathon Equity Securities. If Marathon and Ashland reach such an agreement, then the Fair Market Value of such Marathon Equity Securities shall be deemed to be the amount so agreed upon by Marathon and Ashland. If Marathon and Ashland are unable to reach such an agreement, then Marathon and Ashland shall instruct such third investment banking firm to deliver its 7.04 Appraisal Report, together with its oral and written opinion as to the Fair Market Value of such Marathon Equity Securities (the ""), within 15 days after the 7.04 Subsequent Appraisal Process Commencement Date. The Fair Market Value of such Marathon Equity Securities in such circumstance shall be deemed to be an amount equal to (i) the sum of (x) the 7.04 Third Opinion Value plus (y) whichever of the two 7.04 Initial Opinion Values is closer to the 7.04 Third Opinion Value (or, if the 7.04 Third Opinion Value is exactly halfway between the two 7.04 Initial Opinion Values, the 7.04 Third Opinion Value), divided by (ii) two.
7.04 Subsequent Appraisal Process Commencement Date
7.04 Third Opinion Value
 
 
 
SECTION 8.01. All debt securities issued to Ashland pursuant to Section 4.02(c) shall (i) be unsecured senior public fixed income debt securities of (a) USX or (b) Marathon and fully guaranteed as to performance by USX; (ii) have maturities of 5 to 7 years; (iii) have yields which are comparable to those of 5 to 7 year public debt instruments issued by companies whose Long Term Debt at the time of the issuance of such debt securities to Ashland is rated by S&P and Moody's at least equal to the respective ratings by S&P and Moody's of USX's Long Term Debt; (iv) be priced to trade at par initially; and (v) have covenants substantially the same as those included in other outstanding senior publicly traded debt instruments of USX, including a negative pledge providing for pari passu security rights and usual and customary successorship provisions concerning changes in USX's ownership (all such debt securities are referred to herein as "").
Certain Requirements with Respect to Marathon Debt Securities.
Marathon Debt Securities
 
SECTION 8.02. All Securities to be issued hereunder shall be accompanied on the Closing Date or applicable Installment Payment Date by (i) a certificate from an authorized officer of the Issuer and (ii) an opinion from such Issuer's counsel, in each case as to such matters as Ashland may reasonably request, including, but not limited to the matters substantially as follows (which shall be made as of the Closing Date or applicable Installment Payment Date):
Procedures with Respect to the Issuance of Securities
 
(i) the Issuer is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation with the power and authority to own, lease and operate its assets and to conduct the business now being or to be conducted by it. The Issuer is duly authorized, qualified or licensed to do business as a foreign corporation or other organization in good standing in each of the jurisdictions in which its right, title or interest in or to any of the assets held by it or the business conducted by it requires such authorization, qualification or licensing, except where the failure to
 
be so authorized, qualified, licensed or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in an Issuer Material Adverse Effect;
 
(ii) the Issuer's authorized capitalization is as set forth in its Exchange Act filings (or, in the circumstance where Ashland has made a Demand Registration, as set forth in the Registration Statement or Offering Memorandum, as applicable, with respect to such Securities). All of the outstanding equity securities of the Issuer are duly and validly authorized and issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and were not issued in violation of or subject to any preemptive rights or other contractual rights to purchase securities;
 
(iii) if such Securities are Marathon Equity Securities, such Securities are duly authorized, validly issued and outstanding, are fully paid and nonassessable, and were not issued in violation of or subject to any preemptive rights or other contractual rights to purchase securities;
 
(iv) if such Securities are Marathon Debt Securities, such Securities have been duly authorized and validly issued by the Issuer and constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Issuer enforceable against the Issuer in accordance with their terms, except as such enforcement is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other law relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law);
 
(v) such Securities conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Issuer's Exchange Act filings (or, in the circumstance where Ashland has made a Demand Registration, to the description thereof contained in the Registration Statement or Offering Memorandum, as applicable, with respect to such Securities) and the certificates evidencing such Securities will be, upon issuance, in due and proper form;
 
(vi) if such Securities are Marathon Equity Securities, such Securities have been authorized
 
conditionally for listing on each national securities exchange on which the other securities of the Issuer of the same class are listed at the time of the Closing Date or Installment Payment Date, subject to issuance and certain other conditions that are not material;
 
(vii) if such Securities are Marathon Debt Securities, the execution and delivery by the Issuer of each agreement pursuant to which such Securities have been issued or which relate to such Securities (each, a "") and the consummation by it of the transactions contemplated thereby have been duly authorized and approved by all necessary corporate or other action on the part of the Issuer. Each Securities Document has been duly executed and delivered by the Issuer and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except as such enforcement is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other law relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law);
Securities Document
 
(viii) neither the execution and delivery by the Issuer of the Securities Documents (in the case of Marathon Debt Securities), nor the issuance of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement and/or such Securities Documents will (a) conflict with, or results in the breach of any provision of, the charter or by-laws or similar governing or organizational documents of the Issuer or any of its subsidiaries, (b) violate any Applicable Law or any permit, order, award, injunction, decree or judgment of any Governmental Authority applicable to or binding upon the Issuer or any of its subsidiaries or to which any of their respective properties is subject or (c) violate, conflict with or result in the breach or termination of, or otherwise give any other person the right to terminate, or constitute a default, event of default or an event which with notice, lapse of time or both, would constitute a default or event of default under the terms of, any mortgage, indenture, deed of trust or lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Issuer or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which any of their respective properties or
 
assets is subject, except, in the case of clauses (b) and (c) for such violations, conflicts, breaches, terminations and defaults which would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in an Issuer Material Adverse Effect; and
 
(ix) except as set forth on a schedule to such certificate or opinion, no Governmental Approval or other consent is required by the Issuer for the execution and delivery by it of the Securities Documents (in the case of Marathon Debt Securities) or the issuance of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement and/or such Securities Documents, except (a) for such Governmental Approvals or other consents as have been obtained or (b) where the failure to obtain such Governmental Approvals or other consents would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in an Issuer Material Adverse Effect.
 
If any Securities are issued by Marathon and guaranteed by USX, each of Marathon and USX shall provide Ashland with a certificate and an opinion of counsel in accordance with this Section 8.02.
 
SECTION 8.03. If Marathon elects (by so notifying Ashland in the Ashland Put Price Election Notice) to impose a Holding Period with respect to sales by Ashland of Marathon Equity Securities issued to Ashland on the Closing Date or on an Installment Payment Date, as applicable, then Ashland shall not be permitted to sell such Marathon Equity Securities during such Holding Period. The term "", with respect to any Marathon Equity Securities, means the period commencing on the Closing Date or applicable Installment Payment Date and ending on such later date as Marathon shall state in the Ashland Put Price Election Notice; that the length of a Holding Period with respect to any Marathon Equity Securities shall in no event exceed 30 days.
Holding Period
Holding Period
provided
 
SECTION 8.04. Ashland agrees to sell all Marathon Equity Securities (i) pursuant to a bona fide Underwritten Public Offering managed by one or more Bulge Bracket Investment Banking Firms selected by Ashland, or by one or more other investment banking firms selected by Ashland and to which Marathon or USX shall not have reasonably objected, in a manner reasonably designed to effect a broad distribution of
Manner of Sale of Marathon Equity Securities
 
such Marathon Equity Securities (a ""), (ii) to any person, provided that after giving effect to such sale such person beneficially owns, together with such person's Affiliates, no more than 5% of the Marathon Equity Securities of the relevant issuer then outstanding on a fully diluted basis (a ") or (iii) to a broker or underwriter selected by Ashland who agrees to effect any subsequent transfer by it of such Marathon Equity Securities in a Qualifying Public Offering or a Fully Distributed Sale.
Qualifying Public Offering
Fully Distributed Sale"
 
 
 
SECTION 9.01. (a) The closing (the "") of (i) the purchase and sale of Ashland's Membership Interests and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest pursuant to Marathon's exercise of its Special Termination Right or Marathon Call Right or Ashland's exercise of its Ashland Put Right or (ii) the purchase and sale of Marathon's Membership Interests pursuant to Ashland's exercise of its Special Termination Right, shall be held at the offices of Marathon, at 10:00 a.m. on the later of (x) the 60
Closing
Closing Date.
Closing
th
day after the Appraised Value Determination Date (or at such other place or at such other time or such other date as Marathon and Ashland shall mutually agree) (the "") and (y) the fifth Business Day following the satisfaction or waiver of all conditions to the obligations of Marathon and Ashland set forth in Section 9.02. The date on which the Closing actually occurs is referred to herein as the "".
Scheduled Closing Date
Closing Date
 
(b) In the event that Marathon exercises its Special Termination Right or Marathon Call Right, at the Closing:
Purchase Procedures in the Event of the Exercise by Marathon of its Special Termination Right or its Marathon Call Right.
 
(i) Marathon shall deliver to Ashland, in Cash or by wire transfer to a bank account designated in writing by Ashland, immediately available funds in an amount equal to the sum of (x) the Special Termination Price or Marathon Call Price, as applicable, plus (y) the amount of interest payable pursuant to Section 3.01, plus (z) the amount of interest, if any,
 
payable pursuant to Section 9.04(b), 9.05, 9.08(b) or 9.09;
 
(ii) Ashland shall Transfer to Marathon (or, if Marathon so elects by written notice to Ashland, a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Marathon or USX) in accordance with Article X of the LLC Agreement, all of Ashland's Membership Interests;
 
(iii) Ashland shall Transfer to Marathon or, if Marathon so elects by written notice to Ashland, to the Company or such other person as Marathon shall direct, the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest; and
 
(iv) the Company shall release to Marathon any amounts held in the Escrow Account, including any income earned thereon.
 
(c) In the event that Ashland exercises its Ashland Put Right, at the Closing:
Purchase Procedures in the Event of the Exercise by Ashland of its Ashland Put Right.
 
(i) Marathon shall deliver to Ashland, in Cash or by wire transfer to a bank account designated in writing by Ashland, immediately available funds in an amount equal to the sum of (x) the Cash portion of the Ashland Put Price or first Installment Payment, as applicable, plus (y) the amount of interest payable pursuant to Section 4.01, plus (z) the amount of interest, if any, payable pursuant to Section 9.04(b), 9.05, 9.08(b) or 9.09;
 
(ii) Marathon and/or USX, as applicable, shall issue the Securities to be issued on the Closing Date, if any, which Securities shall be accompanied by the certificate(s) and opinion(s) referred to in Section 8.02;
 
(iii) Ashland shall Transfer to Marathon or, if Marathon so elects by written notice to Ashland, a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Marathon or USX in accordance with Article X of the LLC Agreement, all of Ashland's Membership Interests;
 
(iv) Ashland shall Transfer to Marathon or, if Marathon so elects by written notice to Ashland, to the
 
Company or such other person as Marathon shall direct, the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest; and
 
(v) the Company shall release to Marathon any amounts held in the Escrow Account, including any income earned thereon.
 
In addition, on each of two remaining Scheduled Installment Payment Dates, if any, (i) Marathon shall deliver to Ashland, in Cash or by wire transfer to a bank account (which bank account has been designated in writing by Ashland at least two Business Days prior to the applicable Installment Payment Date), immediately available funds in an amount equal to the sum of (x) the Cash portion of the second and third Installment Payments, respectively, plus (y) the amount of interest payable pursuant to Section 4.01, plus (z) the amount of interest, if any, payable pursuant to Section 9.04(b) or 9.05; and (ii) Marathon and/or USX, as applicable, shall issue the Securities to be issued on such Installment Payment Dates, if any, which Securities shall be accompanied by the certificate(s) and opinion(s) referred to in Section 8.02.
 
(d) In the event that Ashland exercises its Special Termination Right at the Closing:
Purchase Procedures in the Event of the Exercise by Ashland of its Special Termination Right.
 
(i) Ashland shall deliver to Marathon, in Cash or by wire transfer to a bank account designated in writing by Marathon, immediately available funds in an amount equal to the sum of (x) the Special Termination Price plus (y) the amount of interest payable pursuant to Section 2.01, plus (z) the amount of interest, if any, payable pursuant to Section 9.08(b) or 9.09;
 
(ii) Marathon shall Transfer to Ashland (or, if Ashland so elects by written notice to Marathon, a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Ashland) in accordance with Article X of the LLC Agreement, all of Marathon's Membership Interests; and
 
(iii) the Company shall release to Ashland any amounts held in the Escrow Account, including any income earned thereon.
 
SECTION 9.02. (a) Marathon's obligation to purchase and pay for Ashland's Membership Interests and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest pursuant to this Agreement in the event of an exercise by Marathon of its Special Termination Right or its Marathon Call Right or in the event of an exercise by Ashland of its Ashland Put Right is subject in each case to the satisfaction (or waiver by Marathon) as of the Closing of the following conditions:
Conditions to Closing
Marathon's Obligation in the Event of an Exercise by Marathon of its Special Termination Right or its Marathon Call Right or an Exercise by Ashland of its Ashland Put Right.
 
(i) As of the Closing Date, there shall be no (i) injunction or restraining order of any nature issued by any Governmental Authority which directs, or which has the effect of directing, that the Closing shall not be consummated as herein provided or (ii) investigation, action or other proceeding that shall have been brought by any Governmental Authority and be pending on the Closing Date, or that shall have been threatened by any Governmental Authority, in any such case against Marathon or Ashland in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement which is reasonably likely to result in an injunction or restraining order which directs, or which has the effect of directing, that the Closing shall not be consummated as herein provided;
 
(ii) the waiting period under the HSR Act, if applicable to the purchase and sale of Ashland's Membership Interests pursuant to this Agreement shall have expired or been terminated; and
 
(iii) Ashland shall have Transferred to Marathon (or, if Marathon shall have so elected by written notice to Ashland, a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Marathon or USX) all of its Membership Interests on the Closing Date free and clear of all Liens.
 
It is understood and agreed that a breach by Ashland of any of its representations or warranties in this Agreement shall not constitute a condition to Marathon's obligation to purchase and pay for Ashland's Membership Interests and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest pursuant to this Agreement in the circumstances set forth above; that Marathon shall not be deemed to have waived any right to make a Claim
provided
 
against Ashland with respect to any Loss that Marathon suffers as a result of any such breach.
 
(b) Ashland's obligation to sell its Membership Interests and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest to Marathon pursuant to this Agreement in the event of an exercise by Marathon of its Special Termination Right or its Marathon Call Right or in the event of an exercise by Ashland of its Ashland Put Right is subject in each case to the satisfaction (or waiver by Ashland) as of the Closing of the following conditions:
Ashland's Obligation in the Event of an Exercise by Marathon of its Special Termination Right or its Marathon Call Right or an Exercise by Ashland of its Ashland Put Right.
 
(i) As of the Closing Date, there shall be no (i) injunction or restraining order of any nature issued by any Governmental Authority which directs, or which has the effect of directing, that the Closing shall not be consummated as herein provided or (ii) investigation, action or other proceeding that shall have been brought by any Governmental Authority and be pending on the Closing Date, or threatened by any Governmental Authority, in any such case against Marathon or Ashland in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement which is reasonably likely to result in an injunction or restraining order which directs, or which has the effect of directing, that the Closing shall not be consummated as herein provided;
 
(ii) the waiting period under HSR Act, if applicable to the purchase and sale of Ashland's Membership Interests pursuant to this Agreement shall have expired or been terminated;
 
(iii) Marathon shall have delivered to Ashland, in Cash or by wire transfer to a bank account designated in writing by Ashland, immediately available funds in an amount equal to (x) the Special Termination Price or Marathon Call Price, as applicable, or the Cash portion of the Ashland Put Price or applicable Installment Payment, plus (y) the amount of interest payable pursuant to Section 3.01 or 4.01, as applicable, plus (z) the amount of interest, if any, payable pursuant to Section 9.04(b) or 9.05; and
 
(iv) Marathon or USX, as applicable, shall have issued the Securities to be issued on the Closing Date, if any, accompanied by the certificate(s) and opinion(s) referred to in Section 8.02.
 
It is understood and agreed that a breach by Marathon or USX of any of its respective representations or warranties in this Agreement shall not constitute a condition to Ashland's obligation to sell its Membership Interests and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest to Marathon pursuant to this Agreement in the circumstances set forth above; that Ashland shall not be deemed to have waived any right to make a Claim against Marathon or USX with respect to any Loss that Ashland suffers as a result of any such breach.
provided
 
(c) Ashland's obligation to purchase and pay for Marathon's Membership Interests pursuant to this Agreement in the event of an exercise by Ashland of its Special Termination Right is subject to the satisfaction (or waiver by Ashland) as of the Closing of the following conditions:
Ashland's Obligation in the Event of an Exercise by Ashland of its Special Termination Right.
 
(i) As of the Closing Date, there shall be no (i) injunction or restraining order of any nature issued by any Governmental Authority which directs, or which has the effect of directing, that the Closing shall not be consummated as herein provided or (ii) investigation, action or other proceeding that shall have been brought by any Governmental Authority and be pending on the Closing Date, or that shall have been threatened by any Governmental Authority, in any such case against Marathon or Ashland in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement which is reasonably likely to result in an injunction or restraining order which directs, or which has the effect of directing, that the Closing shall not be consummated as herein provided;
 
(ii) the waiting period under the HSR Act, if applicable to the purchase and sale of Marathon's Membership Interests pursuant to this Agreement shall have expired or been terminated; and
 
(iii) Marathon shall have Transferred to Ashland (or, if Ashland shall have so elected by written notice to Marathon, a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Ashland) all
 
of its Membership Interests on the Closing Date free and clear of all Liens.
 
It is understood and agreed that a breach by Marathon or USX of any of its respective representations or warranties in this Agreement shall not constitute a condition to Ashland's obligation to purchase and pay for Marathon's Membership Interests pursuant to this Agreement in the circumstances set forth above; that Ashland shall not be deemed to have waived any right to make a Claim against Marathon or USX with respect to any Loss that Ashland suffers as a result of any such breach.
provided
 
(d) Marathon's obligation to sell its Membership Interests to Ashland pursuant to this Agreement in the event of an exercise by Ashland of its Special Termination Right is subject to the satisfaction (or waiver by Marathon) as of the Closing of the following conditions:
Marathon's Obligation in the Event of an Exercise by Ashland of its Special Termination Right.
 
(i) As of the Closing Date, there shall be no (i) injunction or restraining order of any nature issued by any Governmental Authority which directs, or which has the effect of directing, that the Closing shall not be consummated as herein provided or (ii) investigation, action or other proceeding that shall have been brought by any Governmental Authority and be pending on the Closing Date, or threatened by any Governmental Authority, in any such case against Marathon or Ashland in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement which is reasonably likely to result in an injunction or restraining order which directs, or which has the effect of directing, that the Closing shall not be consummated as herein provided;
 
(ii) the waiting period under HSR Act, if applicable to the purchase and sale of Marathon's Membership Interests pursuant to this Agreement shall have expired or been terminated; and
 
(iii) Ashland shall have delivered to Marathon, in Cash or by wire transfer to a bank account designated in writing by Marathon, immediately available funds in an amount equal to (x) the Special Termination Price plus (y) the amount of interest payable pursuant to
 
Section 2.01 plus (z) the amount of interest, if any, payable pursuant to Section 9.08(b) or 9.09.
 
It is understood and agreed that a breach by Ashland of any of its representations or warranties in this Agreement shall not constitute a condition to Marathon's obligation to sell its Membership Interests to Ashland pursuant to this Agreement in the circumstances set forth above; that Marathon shall not be deemed to have waived any right to make a Claim against Ashland with respect to any Loss that Marathon suffers as a result of any such breach.
provided
 
(e) It shall not be a condition to the Closing of the Marathon Call Right, the Ashland Put Right or the Marathon Special Termination Right, as applicable, that Ashland shall have Transferred the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest to Marathon, the Company or such other person as Marathon shall direct. In the event that any consents or approvals required for such Transfer are not obtained prior to the Closing of the Marathon Call Right, the Ashland Put Right or the Marathon Special Termination Right, as applicable, and as a consequence Ashland is not able to Transfer the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest to Marathon, the Company or such other person as Marathon shall direct, as applicable, on the Closing Date, the parties hereto shall use their commercially reasonable best efforts to achieve any lawful and reasonable (including with respect to the costs and expenses to be borne by Ashland) arrangement proposed by Marathon under which Marathon or the Company, as applicable, shall obtain the economic claims, rights and benefits under the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest. Such reasonable arrangement may include (i) Ashland subcontracting, sublicensing or subleasing to Marathon, the Company or such other person as Marathon shall direct, as applicable, any and all of Ashland's rights, and delegating all of Ashland's obligations, under the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest, and (ii) Ashland granting to Marathon, the Company or such other person as Marathon shall direct, as applicable, a proxy (the "") which shall authorize such party to exercise on Ashland's behalf, all of Ashland's voting rights with respect to the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest. The costs and expenses incurred in connection with any such arrangements shall be borne 62% by Marathon and 38% by Ashland.
Consequences of Inability To Transfer the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest on the Closing Date.
Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Irrevocable Proxy
 
SECTION 9.03. If the Closing of the Marathon Call Right or the Ashland Put Right shall not have occurred on or prior to the date that is 180 days after the Scheduled Closing Date, and (i) the delay is due to (x) a failure by Ashland to timely perform in any material respect any of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) the fact that any of Ashland's representations and warranties contained herein have ceased to be true and correct in any material respect, and (ii) neither Marathon nor USX shall have (x) failed to timely perform in any material respect any of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) breached any of its representations and warranties contained herein in any material respect, then Marathon shall thereafter have the right, exercisable at any time prior to the Closing by written notice to Ashland, to revoke Ashland's Ashland Put Exercise Notice or its Marathon Call Exercise Notice, as applicable.
Consequences of a Delayed Closing of the Marathon Call Right or the Ashland Put Right Where Ashland Is at Fault. (a) Right to Revoke Ashland Put Exercise Notice or Marathon Call Exercise Notice.
 
(b) If the Closing of the Marathon Call Right or the Ashland Put Right does not occur on the Scheduled Closing Date, and (i) the delay is due to (x) a failure by Ashland to timely perform in any material respect any of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) the fact that any of Ashland's representations and warranties contained herein have ceased to be true and correct in any material respect, and (ii) neither Marathon nor USX shall have (x) failed to timely perform in any material respect any of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) breached any of its representations and warranties contained herein in any material respect, then on such later date on which the Closing actually takes place (such later date being the "") Marathon shall deduct from the Marathon Call Price or the Ashland Put Price (or the first Installment Payment, as applicable) payable to Ashland on the Delayed Closing Date, an amount equal to the amount of interest accrued during the period commencing at 12:01 a.m. on the day immediately following the Scheduled Closing Date and ending on and including the Delayed Closing Date (the "") on the Marathon Call Price, or the Ashland Put Price (or the first Installment Payment thereof, as applicable), at a rate per
Adjustment to Ashland Put Price or Marathon Call Price.
Delayed Closing Date
Delayed Closing Date Interest Period
 
annum equal to the 30-day LIBOR Rate multiplied by 1.5, with daily accrual of interest.
 
(c) In the event that Marathon revokes Ashland's Ashland Put Exercise Notice or its Marathon Call Exercise Notice pursuant to Section 9.03(a), each of Marathon and Ashland shall thereafter have the right to exercise their respective Marathon Call Right and Ashland Put Right in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Any such revocation shall not operate as a release of Ashland from any liability it may have to Marathon for any breach of its obligations under this Agreement and such revocation shall not in any way preclude Marathon from exercising any right or power hereunder or otherwise available to it at law or in equity as a result of any such breach.
Other Consequences.
 
SECTION 9.04. (a) If the Closing of the Marathon Call Right or the Ashland Put Right does not occur on the Scheduled Closing Date, and (i) the delay is due to (x) a failure by Marathon or USX to timely perform in any material respect any of its respective covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) the fact that any of Marathon's or USX's respective representations and warranties contained herein (or in any certificate required to be delivered to Ashland pursuant to Section 9.02(b)(iv)) have ceased to be true and correct in any material respect, and (ii) Ashland shall not have (x) failed to timely perform in any material respect any of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) breached any of its representations and warranties contained herein in any material respect, then (i) effective as of 12:01 a.m. on the day immediately following the Scheduled Closing Date, all Ashland Representatives Revocable Proxies and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Revocable Proxy shall automatically be revoked; (ii) Marathon shall, and shall cause each of its Representatives to, promptly take all such actions as are necessary to provide that the Company shall thereupon resume making distributions of Distributable Cash and Tax Liability Distributions directly to Ashland pursuant to Article V of the LLC Agreement; (iii) Marathon shall immediately pay to Ashland an amount equal to all Exercise Period Distributions received by
Consequences of a Delayed Closing of the Marathon Call Right or the Ashland Put Right Where Marathon or USX Is at Fault.
Revocation of Proxies; Payment of Distributions to Ashland; Right To Revoke Ashland Put Exercise Notice or Marathon Call Exercise Notice.
 
Marathon from the Company in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.01(a)(ii), together with interest on each such Exercise Period Distribution at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate, with daily accrual of interest, from (but excluding) the date such amount was otherwise payable to Ashland (or, if earlier, the date such amount was paid to Marathon) to (and including) the date such amount is paid to Ashland in accordance with the provisions of this clause (iii); (iv) the Company shall immediately release to Ashland all amounts then held in the Escrow Account, including any income earned thereon; and (v) if the Closing shall not have occurred on or prior to the date that is 180 days after the Scheduled Closing Date, Ashland thereafter shall have the right, exercisable at any time prior to the Closing by written notice to Marathon, to revoke its Ashland Put Exercise Notice or Marathon's Marathon Call Exercise Notice, as applicable.
 
(b) In addition, if the Closing of the Marathon Call Right or the Ashland Put Right does not occur on the Scheduled Closing Date, and (i) the delay is due to (x) a failure by Marathon or USX to timely perform in any material respect any of its respective covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) the fact that any of Marathon's or USX's respective representations and warranties contained herein have ceased to be true and correct in any material respect, and (ii) Ashland shall not have (x) failed to timely perform in any material respect any of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) breached any of its representations and warranties contained herein in any material respect, then Marathon shall be entitled to deduct from the Marathon Call Price or from the Ashland Put Price (or the first Installment Payment, as applicable) payable to Ashland on the Delayed Closing Date, an amount (the "") equal to the amount of any Ashland Exercise Period Distributions that Ashland shall have received from the Company in Cash during the Delayed Closing Date Interest Period and, on the Delayed Closing Date, Marathon shall pay to Ashland in addition to the Marathon Call Price or the Ashland Put Price (or the first Installment Payment, as applicable) and related accrued interest payable pursuant to Section 3.01 or 4.01, as applicable, an amount in Cash equal to the amount of interest accrued during the Delayed Closing Interest Period on an amount equal to (1) the Marathon Call Price or the Ashland Put Price (or the first Installment Payment thereof,
Adjustments to Ashland Put Price or Marathon Call Price.
9.04(b) Post-Scheduled Closing Date Distribution Amount
 
as applicable) minus (2) the 9.04(b) Post-Scheduled Closing Date Distribution Amount, at a rate per annum equal to the 30-day LIBOR Rate multiplied by 1.5, with daily accrual of interest.
 
(c) In the event that Ashland revokes its Ashland Put Exercise Notice or Marathon's Marathon Call Exercise Notice pursuant to clause (v) of Section 9.03(a), each of Ashland and Marathon shall thereafter have the right to exercise their respective Ashland Put Right and Marathon Call Right in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Any such revocation shall not operate as a release of Marathon or USX from any liability it may have to Ashland for any breach of its obligations under this Agreement and such revocation shall not in any way preclude Ashland from exercising any right or power hereunder or otherwise available to it at law or in equity as a result of any such breach.
Other Consequences.
 
SECTION 9.05. If the Closing of the Marathon Call Right or the Ashland Put Right does not occur on the Scheduled Closing Date, and the delay is not due to a failure by any party hereto to timely perform in any material respect any of its respective covenants and agreements contained herein or to the fact that any party's representations and warranties contained herein have ceased to be true and correct in any material respect, then Marathon shall pay to Ashland on the Delayed Closing Date, in addition to the Marathon Call Price or the Ashland Put Price (or the first Installment Payment, as applicable) and related accrued interest payable pursuant to Section 3.01 or 4.01, as applicable, an amount in Cash equal to the amount of interest accrued during the Delayed Closing Interest Period on the Marathon Call Price or the Ashland Put Price (or the first Installment Payment, as applicable), at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate, with daily accrual of interest. If the Delayed Closing Date does not occur on or prior to the date that is 180 days after the Scheduled Closing Date and the delay is not due to an action or failure to act by any of Marathon, USX or Ashland, then (i) effective as of 12:01 a.m. on the day immediately following the last day of such 180-day period, all Ashland Representatives Revocable Proxies and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Revocable Proxy shall automatically be revoked; (ii) Marathon shall, and shall cause each of its
Consequences of a Delayed Closing of the Marathon Call Right or the Ashland Put Right Where No Party Is at Fault.
 
Representatives to, promptly take all such actions as are necessary to provide that the Company shall resume making distributions of Distributable Cash and Tax Liability Distributions directly to Ashland pursuant to Article V of the LLC Agreement; (iii) Marathon shall immediately pay to Ashland an amount equal to all Exercise Period Distributions received by Marathon from the Company in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.01(a)(ii), together with interest on each such Exercise Period Distribution at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate, with daily accrual of interest, from (but excluding) the date such amount was otherwise payable to Ashland (or, if earlier, the date such amount was paid to Marathon) to (and including) the date such amount is paid to Ashland in accordance with the provisions of this clause (iii); (iv) the Company shall immediately release to Ashland all amounts then held in the Escrow Account, including any income earned thereon; and (v) the parties shall be restored to their rights as though the Ashland Put Right or the Marathon Call Right had never been exercised, without liability to any party and without any effect on the ability of Ashland to exercise its Ashland Put Right or Marathon to exercise its Marathon Call Right in accordance with the terms of this Agreement in the future.
 
SECTION 9.06. If Marathon shall fail to make an Installment Payment on the second or third Scheduled Installment Payment Date, if applicable, then on such later date on which the applicable Installment Payment is actually made (such later date being a ""), Marathon shall pay to Ashland, in addition to the applicable Installment Payment and related accrued interest payable pursuant to Section 3.01 or 4.01, as applicable, an amount in Cash equal to the amount of interest accrued during the period commencing on the day immediately following the Scheduled Installment Payment Date and ending on and including the date of the payment of the relevant Installment Payment (the "") on the applicable Installment Payment, at a rate per annum equal to the 30 day LIBOR Rate multiplied by 1.5, with daily accrual of interest.
Consequences of Delayed Second or Third Scheduled Installment Payment.
Delayed Installment Payment Date
Delayed Installment Payment Date Interest Period
 
SECTION 9.07. (a) If the Closing of the Special Termination Right shall not have occurred on or prior to the
Consequences of a Delayed Closing of the Special Termination Right Where Terminating Member Is at Fault.
Continuation of Term of the Company; Right to Specific Performance.
 
Scheduled Closing Date, and (i) the delay is due to (x) a failure by the Terminating Member (or, if Marathon is the Terminating Member, Marathon or USX) to timely perform in any material respect any of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) the fact that any of the Terminating Member's (or, if Marathon is the Terminating Member, Marathon's or USX's) representations and warranties contained herein have ceased to be true and correct in any material respect, and (ii) the Non-Terminating Member (or, if Marathon is the Non-Terminating Member, Marathon or USX) shall not have (x) failed to timely perform in any material respect any of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) breached any of its representations and warranties contained herein in any material respect, then the Non-Terminating Member shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company and the Terminating Member, to either (i) terminate the Term of the Company at the end of the Initial Term or the then-current 10-year extension thereof, as applicable (in which case the Term of the Company shall automatically terminate upon the expiration of the Initial Term or the then-current 10-year extension thereof), or (ii) extend the Term of the Company for two additional years following the expiration of the Initial Term or the then-current 10-year extension thereof, as applicable (in which case the Term of the Company shall automatically be extended for such additional two-year period).
 
(b) If the Closing of the Special Termination Right does not occur on the Scheduled Closing Date, and (i) the delay is due to (x) a failure by the Terminating Member (or, if Marathon is the Terminating Member, Marathon or USX) to timely perform in any material respect any of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) the fact that any of the Terminating Member's (or, if Marathon is the Terminating Member, Marathon's or USX's) representations and warranties contained herein have ceased to be true and correct in any material respect, and (ii) the Non-Terminating Member (or, if Marathon is the Terminating Member, Marathon or USX) shall not have (x) failed to timely perform in any material respect any of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) breached any of its representations and warranties contained herein in any material respect, then on the Delayed Closing Date the Non-Terminating Member shall deduct from the Special Termination Price payable to the Terminating Member on the Delayed Closing Date, an amount equal to the amount of interest accrued during the Delayed
Adjustment to Special Termination Price.
 
Closing Date Interest Period on the Special Termination Price, at a rate per annum equal to the 30-day LIBOR Rate multiplied by 1.5, with daily accrual of interest.
 
SECTION 9.08. (a) If the Closing of the Special Termination Right does not occur on the Scheduled Closing Date, and (i) the delay is due to a failure by the Non-Terminating Member (or, if Marathon is the Non-Terminating Member, Marathon or USX) to timely perform in any material respect any of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) the fact that any of the Non-Terminating Member's (or, if Marathon is the Non-Terminating Member, Marathon's or USX's) representations and warranties contained herein have ceased to be true and correct in any material respect, and (ii) the Terminating Member (or, if Marathon is the Terminating Member, Marathon or USX) shall not have(x) failed to timely perform in any material respect any of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) breached any of its representations and warranties contained herein in any material respect, then (i) effective as of 12:01 a.m. on the day immediately following the Scheduled Closing Date, all Marathon Representative Revocable Proxies (in the circumstance where Marathon is the Terminating Member) or all Ashland Representative Revocable Proxies and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Revocable Proxy (in the circumstance where Ashland is the Terminating Member) shall automatically be revoked; (ii) the Non-Terminating Member shall, and shall cause each of its Representatives to, promptly take all such actions as are necessary to provide that the Company shall thereupon resume making distributions of Distributable Cash and Tax Liability Distributions directly to the Terminating Member pursuant to Article V of the LLC Agreement; (iii) the Non-Terminating Member shall immediately pay to theTerminating Member an amount equal to all Exercise Period Distributions received by the Non-Terminating Member from the Company in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.01(a)(ii) or Section 5.01(b)(ii), as applicable, together with interest on each such Exercise Period Distribution at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate, with daily accrual of interest, from (but excluding) the date such amount was otherwise payable to the Terminating Member (or, if earlier, the date such amount was paid to the Non-Terminating Member) to (and including) the
Consequences of a Delayed Closing of the Special Termination Right Where Non-Terminating Member Is at Fault.
Revocation of Proxies; Payment of Distributions to Terminating Member; Right to Revoke Special Termination Exercise Notice.
 
date such amount is paid to the Terminating Member in accordance with the provisions of this clause (iii); (iv) the Company shall immediately release to the Terminating Member all amounts then held in the Escrow Account, including any income earned thereon; and (v) if the Closing shall not have occurred on or prior to the date that is 120 days before the expiration of the Initial Term or the then-current 10-year extension thereof, each of the Terminating Member and the Non-Terminating Member thereafter shall have the right, exercisable at any time prior to the Closing by written notice to the other party, to revoke the Non-Terminating Member's Special Termination Exercise Notice, in which event the Term of the Company shall automatically terminate upon the expiration of the Initial Term or the then-current 10-year extension thereof.
 
(b) In addition, if the Closing of the Special Termination Right does not occur on the Scheduled Closing Date, and (i) the delay is due to (x) a failure by the Non-Terminating Member (or, if Marathon is the Non-Terminating Member, Marathon or USX) to timely perform in any material respect any of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) the fact that any of the Non-Terminating Member's (or, if Marathon is the Non-Terminating Member, Marathon's or USX's) representations and warranties contained herein have ceased to be true and correct in any material respect, and (ii) the Terminating Member (or, if Marathon is the Terminating Member, Marathon or USX) shall not have (x) failed to timely perform in any material respect any of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (y) breached any of its representations and warranties contained herein in any material respect, then the Non-Terminating Member shall be entitled to deduct from the Special Termination Price payable to the Terminating Member on the Delayed Closing Date, an amount (the "") equal to the amount of any Exercise Period Distributions that the Terminating Member shall have received from the Company in Cash during the Delayed Closing Date Interest Period and, on the Delayed Closing Date, the Non-Terminating Member shall pay to the Terminating Member in addition to the Special Termination Price and related accrued interest payable pursuant to Section 2.01, an amount in Cash equal to the amount of interest accrued during the Delayed Closing Interest Period on an amount equal to (1) the Special Termination Price minus (2) the 9.08(b) Post-Scheduled Closing Date Distribution Amount, at a rate
Adjustments to Special Termination Price.
9.08(b) Post-Scheduled Closing Date Distribution Amount
 
per annum equal to the 30-day LIBOR Rate multiplied by 1.5, with daily accrual of interest.
 
(c) In the event that the Terminating Member revokes the Non-Terminating Member's Special Termination Exercise Notice, then the Non-Terminating Member shall not thereafter have the right to exercise its Special Termination Right. Any such revocation shall not operate as a release of the Non-Terminating Member from any liability it may have to the Terminating Member for any breach of its obligations under this Agreement and such revocation shall not in any way preclude the Terminating Member from exercising any right or power hereunder or otherwise available to it at law or in equity as a result of any such breach.
Other Consequences.
 
SECTION 9.09. If the Closing of the Special Termination Right does not occur on the Scheduled Closing Date, and the delay is not due to a failure by any party hereto to timely perform in any material respect any of its respective covenants and agreements contained herein or to the fact that any party's representations and warranties contained herein have ceased to be true and correct in any material respect, then the Non-Terminating Member shall pay to the Terminating Member on the Delayed Closing Date, in addition to the Special Termination Price and related accrued interest payable pursuant to Section 2.01, an amount in Cash equal to the amount of interest accrued during the Delayed Closing Interest Period on the Special Termination Price, at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate, with daily accrual of interest. If the Delayed Closing Date does not occur on or prior to the date that is 120 days before the expiration of the Initial Term or the then-current 10-year extension thereof and the delay is not due to an action or failure to act by the Terminating Member or the Non-Terminating Member, then (i) effective as of 12:01 a.m. on the day immediately following such 120th day before the expiration of the Initial Term or the then-current 10-year extension thereof, all Marathon Representative Revocable Proxies (in the circumstance where Marathon is the Terminating Member) or all Ashland Representative Revocable Proxies and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Revocable Proxy (in the circumstance where Ashland is the Terminating Member) shall be revoked; (ii) the Non-Terminating Member shall, and shall cause each of its Representatives to, promptly take all such actions as
Consequences of Delayed Closing of Special Termination Right Where No Party Is at Fault.
 
are necessary to provide that the Company shall resume making distributions of Distributable Cash and Tax Liability Distributions directly to the Terminating Member pursuant to Article V of the LLC Agreement; (iii) the Non-Terminating Member shall immediately pay to the Terminating Member an amount equal to all Exercise Period Distributions received by the Non-Terminating Member from the Company in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.01(a)(ii) or Section 5.01(b)(ii), as applicable, together with interest on each such Exercise Period Distribution at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate, with daily accrual of interest, from (but excluding) the date such amount was otherwise payable to the Terminating Member (or, if earlier, the date such amount was paid to the Non-Terminating Member) to (and including) the date such amount is paid to the Terminating Member in accordance with the provisions of this clause (iii); (iv) the Company shall immediately release to the Terminating Member all amounts then held in the Escrow Account, including any income earned thereon; and (v) the Term of the Company shall automatically terminate upon the expiration of the Initial Term or the then-current 10-year extension thereof.
 
 
 
SECTION 10.01. (a) Ashland shall have the right to make a written demand upon the issuer or, in the case of any Marathon Debt Securities issued by Marathon and guaranteed by USX, issuers of any class of Securities delivered or to be delivered to Ashland as payment of any portion of the Ashland Put Price (both parties hereinafter referred to collectively as the ""), on not more than six separate occasions (subject to the provisions of this Section 10.01), to either, at Ashland's option, (i) register under the Securities Act all or a portion of such Securities for purposes of a public offering by Ashland of such Securities or (ii) prepare an Offering Memorandum that covers all or a portion of such Securities for purposes of a private placement by Ashland of such Securities (either of such requests being referred to herein as a "") that were not registered under the Securities Act at the time of issuance thereof to Ashland on the Closing Date or Installment Payment Date, as the case may be, and the Issuer shall use its best efforts
Registration upon Request.
Issuer
Demand Registration
 
to file a Registration Statement and cause such Securities to be registered under the Securities Act (in the case of a Demand Registration for a public offering) or to prepare a final Offering Memorandum (in the case of a Demand Registration for a private placement) (i) in the case of any Securities to be delivered to Ashland on the Closing Date or any Installment Payment Date, not later than the Scheduled Closing Date or applicable Scheduled Installment Payment Date or (ii) in the case of any Securities that have been delivered to Ashland on the Closing Date or any Installment Payment Date, in each case not later than 60 days after such written demand by Ashland; that each Demand Registration shall cover Securities having an aggregate fair market value (based on the then-current market value of such Securities or, if such market value cannot be determined, based on the expected offering price of such Securities) equal to (i) in the case of a public offering, $100 million or more, unless Ashland shall hold less than $100 million of Securities, in which event, the remaining Securities held by Ashland and (ii) in the case of a private placement, $25 million or more, unless Ashland shall hold less than $25 million of Securities, in which event, the remaining Securities held by Ashland.
provided
 
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10.01(a), the Issuer (i) shall not be obligated to prepare or file more than one Registration Statement pursuant to this Section 10.01 during any six month period (measured from the effective date (or, in the case of a private placement, the closing date) of the most recently requested Demand Registration to the date of the demand by Ashland for a subsequent Demand Registration) and (ii) shall be entitled to postpone the filing of any Registration Statement otherwise required to be prepared and filed by it pursuant to Section 10.01(a), and to prevent Ashland from initially distributing any Offering Memorandum required to be prepared by the Issuer pursuant to Section 10.01(a), in each case (x) if the Issuer is actively pursuing an Underwritten Public Offering, for a period of up to 90 days following the closing of any Underwritten Public Offering; that the Issuer is advised by its managing underwriter or underwriters in writing (with a copy to Ashland), that the price at which securities would be offered in such offering would, in its or in their opinion, be materially adversely affected by the registration or the initial dissemination of the Offering Memorandum so requested, or (y) for a period of up to 90 days if the
provided
 
Issuer determines in its reasonable judgment and in good faith that the registration and distribution of such Securities (or the private placement thereof, in the case of a sale by Ashland of such securities pursuant to Section 4(2) or Rule 144A of the Securities Act) would materially adversely impair or interfere with in any material respect any contemplated material financing, acquisition, disposition, corporate reorganization or other similar transaction involving the Issuer or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates ((x) or (y) being hereinafter referred to as a ""), , , that the aggregate number of days included in all Blackout Periods during any consecutive 12 months shall not exceed 180 days, and; , , that a period of at least 30 days shall elapse between the termination of any Blackout Period and the commencement of the immediately succeeding Blackout Period. In the event of such postponement, Ashland shall have the right to withdraw such request for registration or request for preparation of an Offering Memorandum by giving written notice to the Issuer within 20 days after receipt of notice of postponement and, in the event of such withdrawal, such request shall not be counted for purposes of determining the number of Demand Registrations to which Ashland is entitled pursuant to Section 10.01(a).
Blackout Period
provided
however
provided further
however
 
(c) A registration requested pursuant to this Section 10.01 shall not be deemed to have been effected unless the Registration Statement relating thereto (i) has become effective under the Securities Act and (ii) has remained effective for a period of at least 90 days (or such shorter period in which all Securities included in such registration have actually been sold thereunder); , , that if after any Registration Statement requested pursuant to this Section 10.01 becomes effective such Registration Statement is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the Commission or other Governmental Authority solely due to the actions or omissions to act of the Issuer prior to being effective for 90 days and less than 75% of the Securities have been sold thereunder, such Registration Statement shall be at the sole expense of the Issuer and shall not constitute a Demand Registration. In addition, a request for the preparation of an Offering Memorandum pursuant to this Section 10.01 shall not be deemed to have been effected unless the information contained in such Offering Memorandum has remained "reasonably current" (as such term is defined in Rule 144A
provided
however
 
under the Securities Act) for a period of at least 90 days (or such shorter period in which all Securities covered by such Offering Memorandum have actually been sold thereunder); , , that if such Offering Memorandum is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the Commission or other Governmental Authority solely due to the actions or omissions to act of the Issuer prior to such Offering Memorandum being made available to Ashland for 90 days and less than 75% of the Securities have been sold pursuant thereto, such Offering Memorandum shall be at the sole expense of the Issuer and shall not constitute a Demand Registration.
provided
however
 
(d) On or after the date hereof, the Issuer shall not grant to any other holder of its securities, whether currently outstanding or issued in the future, any incidental or "piggy-back" registration rights with respect to any Registration Statement filed or Offering Memorandum prepared pursuant to a Demand Registration under this Section 10.01 and, without the prior consent of Ashland, will not permit any holder of its securities to participate in any offering or private placement made pursuant to a Demand Registration under this Section 10.01.
 
(e) If a Demand Registration involves an Underwritten Public Offering and the managing underwriter or underwriters shall advise the Issuer and Ashland in writing that, in its view, the number of securities requested to be included in such registration (including, without limitation, Securities requested to be included by Ashland, securities which the Issuer proposes to be included, and securities proposed to be included by other holders of securities entitled to include securities in such registration pursuant to incidental or "piggy-back" registration rights other than those pursuant to this Article X (the "")) exceeds the largest number of shares of securities which can be sold without having an adverse effect on such offering, including the price at which such securities can be sold (the ""), the Issuer shall include in such registration, in the priority listed below, up to the Maximum Offering Size:
Other Holders
Maximum Offering Size
 
(i) first, all Securities requested to be registered by Ashland;
 
(ii) second, all securities requested to be included in such registration by any Other Holder (allocated, if necessary, for the offering not to exceed the Maximum Offering Size, pro rata among such Other Holders on the basis of the relative number of securities requested to be included in such registration); and
 
(iii) third, any securities proposed to be registered by the Issuer or by any Other Holders pursuant to incidental or "piggy-back" registration rights.
 
(f) Ashland may, at any time, prior to the effective date of the Registration Statement or the initial distribution of the Offering Memorandum relating to such request, revoke such request by providing a written notice to the Issuer, in which case such request, as so revoked, shall not constitute a Demand Registration.
 
SECTION 10.02. (a) In the event that any Securities are to be registered pursuant to Section 10.01, the Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall (i) use its best efforts to effect the registration, (ii) cooperate in the sale of the Securities and (iii) as expeditiously as possible:
Covenants of the Issuer.
Registration Statement Covenants.
 
(1) prepare and file with the Commission a Registration Statement with respect to such Securities on Form S-3, if permitted, or otherwise on any form for which the Issuer then qualifies or which counsel for the Issuer shall deem appropriate, and which form shall be available for the sale of the Securities in accordance with the intended methods of distribution thereof, and use its best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become and remain effective;
 
(2) prepare and file with the Commission amendments and supplements to such Registration Statement and prospectus used in connection therewith as may be necessary to maintain the effectiveness of such registration and to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement until the earlier of (i) such time as all of such securities have been disposed of in accordance with the
 
intended methods of disposition by Ashland set forth in such Registration Statement and (ii) the expiration of 90 days after the date such Registration Statement becomes effective; that before filing a Registration Statement or prospectus, or any amendments or supplements thereto, the Issuer shall furnish to Ashland and its counsel, copies of all documents proposed to be filed;
provided
 
(3) furnish to Ashland such number of copies of such Registration Statement and of each amendment and supplement thereto (in each case including all exhibits), such number of copies of the prospectus and prospectus supplement, as applicable, in conformity with the requirements of the Securities Act, and such other documents as Ashland may reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition of the Securities by Ashland;
 
(4) use its best efforts to register or qualify such Securities covered by such Registration Statement under such other securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as Ashland shall reasonably request, and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable Ashland to consummate the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Securities owned by Ashland, except that the Issuer shall not for any such purpose be required to (i) qualify generally to do business as a foreign corporation in any jurisdiction where, but for the requirements of this Section 10.04(a)(4), it would not be obligated to be so qualified, (ii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction or (iii) consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction);
 
(5) use its best efforts to cause such Securities covered by such Registration Statement to be registered with or approved by such other governmental agencies or authorities as may be necessary to enable Ashland to consummate the disposition of such Securities;
 
(6) notify Ashland at any time when a prospectus relating to a Registration Statement is required to be delivered under the Securities Act within the appropriate period mentioned in Section 10.02(a)(2), of the happening of any event as a result of which such Registration Statement contains an untrue statement of
 
a material fact or omits to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances then existing, and at the request of Ashland, prepare and furnish to Ashland a reasonable number of copies of an amended or supplemental prospectus as may be necessary so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of such Securities, such prospectus shall not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances then existing;
 
(7) otherwise use its best efforts to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission, and make available to Ashland, as soon as reasonably practicable (but not more than eighteen months) after the effective date of the Registration Statement, an earnings statement which shall satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder;
 
(8) use its best efforts to cause all such Securities that are Marathon Equity Securities to be listed on any securities exchange on which the securities of the Issuer are then listed, if such Securities are not already so listed and if such listing is then permitted under the rules of such exchange, and to provide a transfer agent and registrar for such Securities covered by such Registration Statement no later than the effective date of such Registration Statement;
 
(9) use its best efforts to obtain a "cold comfort" letter or letters from the Issuer's independent public accountants in customary form; and
 
(10) cooperate with Ashland and the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates (not bearing any restrictive legends) representing the Securities to be sold under such Registration Statement, and enable such Securities to be in such denominations and registered in such names as the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, or Ashland may request.
 
(b) In the event that any Securities are to be sold by Ashland by means of an Offering Memorandum prepared by the Issuer pursuant to Sections 10.01, the Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall (i) cooperate in the sale of the Securities and (ii) as expeditiously as possible:
Offering Memorandum Covenants.
 
(1) prepare the Offering Memorandum;
 
(2) prepare amendments and supplements to such Offering Memorandum as may be necessary to keep the information in such Offering Memorandum "reasonably current" (as such term is defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) and to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Offering Memorandum until the earlier of (i) such time as all of such securities have been disposed of in accordance with the intended methods of disposition by Ashland set forth in such Offering Memorandum and (ii) the expiration of 90 days after the date such Offering Memorandum (in definitive form) is circulated to the initial purchasers; that before making any amendments or supplements thereto, the Issuer shall furnish to Ashland and its counsel, copies of all proposed amendments or supplements;
provided
 
(3) furnish to Ashland such number of copies of such Offering Memorandum and of each amendment and supplement thereto (in each case including all exhibits), and such other documents as Ashland may reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition of the Securities by Ashland;
 
(4) use its best efforts to register or qualify such Securities covered by such Offering Memorandum under such other securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as Ashland shall reasonably request, and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable Ashland to consummate the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Securities owned by Ashland, except that the Issuer shall not for any such purpose be required to (i) qualify generally to do business as a foreign corporation in any jurisdiction where, but for the requirements of this Section 10.02(b)(4), it would not be obligated to be so qualified, (ii) subject itself to
 
taxation in any such jurisdiction or (iii) consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction);
 
(5) use its best efforts to cause such Securities covered by such Offering Memorandum to be registered with or approved by such other governmental agencies or authorities as may be necessary to enable Ashland to consummate the disposition of such Securities;
 
(6) notify Ashland at any time prior to the completion of the sale of the Securities by Ashland that are covered by the Offering Memorandum, of the happening of any event as a result of which such Offering Memorandum contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances then existing, and at the request of Ashland, prepare and furnish to Ashland a reasonable number of copies of an amended or supplemental Offering Memorandum as may be necessary so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of such Securities, such Offering Memorandum shall not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances then existing;
 
(7) otherwise use its best efforts to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission;
 
(8) use its best efforts to cause all such Securities that are Marathon Equity Securities to be listed on any securities exchange on which the securities of the Issuer are then listed, if such Securities are not already so listed and if such listing is then permitted under the rules of such exchange, and to provide a transfer agent and registrar for such Securities covered by such Offering Memorandum no later than the effective date of such Offering Memorandum;
 
(9) use its best efforts to obtain a "cold comfort" letter or letters from the Issuer's independent public accountants in customary form; and
 
(10) cooperate with Ashland and the initial purchasers, if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing the Securities to be sold under such Offering Memorandum, and enable such Securities to be in such denominations and registered in such names as the initial purchasers, if any, or Ashland may request.
 
The Issuer may require Ashland to furnish the Issuer with such information regarding Ashland and pertinent to the disclosure requirements relating to the registration and/or the distribution of such Securities pursuant to this Article X as the Issuer may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
 
Ashland agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Issuer of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 10.02(a)(6) or 10.02(b)(6), or of the imposition by the Issuer of a Blackout Period of the type described in clause (y) of 10.01(b)(ii), Ashland shall forthwith discontinue such disposition of such Securities pursuant to the Registration Statement or Offering Memorandum covering such Securities until Ashland's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended prospectus or Offering Memorandum contemplated by Section 10.02(a)(6) and 10.02(b)(6), respectively, or the expiration of such Blackout Period, as applicable, and, if so directed by the Issuer, Ashland shall deliver to the Issuer (at the Issuer's expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies then in Ashland's possession, of the prospectus or Offering Memorandum covering such Securities current at the time of receipt of such notice. In the event the Issuer shall give any such notice, the period mentioned in Section 10.02(a)(2) or 10.02(b)(2), as applicable, shall be extended by the number of days during the period from the date of the giving of such notice pursuant to Section 10.02(a)(6) or 10.02(b)(6), as applicable, and through the date when Ashland shall have received the copies of the supplemented or amended prospectus or Offering Memorandum contemplated by Section 10.02(a)(6) or 10.02(b)(6), respectively, or the expiration of such Blackout Period, as applicable.
 
SECTION 10.03. In connection with any registration pursuant to this Article X or the preparation of any Offering Memorandum pursuant to this Article X, (i) Ashland shall pay all agent fees and commissions and underwriting discounts and commissions
Fees and Expenses.
 
related to the Securities being sold by Ashland and the fees and disbursements of its counsel and accountants and (ii) the Issuer shall pay all fees and disbursements of its counsel and accountants and the expenses, including fees incurred in the preparation of a cold comfort letter requested by Ashland pursuant to Section 10.02(a)(9) or 10.02(b)(9), as applicable. All others fees and expenses in connection with any Registration Statement or Offering Memorandum (including, without limitation, all registration and filing fees, all printing costs, all fees and expenses of complying with securities or blue sky laws) shall be borne by Ashland; that Ashland shall not pay any expenses relating to work that would otherwise be incurred by the Issuer including, but not limited to, the preparation and filing of periodic reports with the Commission.
provided
 
SECTION 10.04. In the case of any offering registered pursuant to this Article X or any private placement pursuant to an Offering Memorandum prepared by the Issuer pursuant to this Article X, the Issuer agrees to indemnify and hold Ashland, each underwriter or initial purchaser, if any, of the Securities under such registration or covered by such Offering Memorandum and each person who controls any of the foregoing within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act, and any director, officer, employee, stockholder, partner, agent or representative, of the foregoing, harmless against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities (including reasonable legal fees and other reasonable expenses incurred in the investigation and defense thereof) (collectively "") to which they or any of them may become subject under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as any such Losses shall arise out of or shall be based upon (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement (as amended if the Issuer shall have filed with the Commission any amendment thereof) or Offering Memorandum (as amended if the Issuer shall have prepared and delivered to Ashland for private distribution any amendment to such Offering Memorandum), or the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (ii) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the prospectus relating to the sale of such Securities (as amended or supplemented if the Issuer shall have filed with the Commission any amendment
Indemnification and Contribution.
Losses
 
thereof or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the indemnification contained in this Section 10.04 shall not apply to such Losses which shall arise out of or shall be based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement, or any such omission or alleged omission, which shall have been made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Issuer by Ashland or such underwriter or initial purchaser, as the case may be, specifically for use in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement, the prospectus contained in the Registration Statement or the Offering Memorandum, as applicable, or any such amendment thereof or supplement therein.
provided
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 10.04, the Issuer shall not be liable to Ashland, any person who participates as an underwriter in the offering or sale of such Securities, any person who participates as an initial purchaser in the private placement of such Securities or any other person, if any, who controls Ashland or any underwriter or initial purchaser (within the meaning of the Securities Act), under the indemnity agreement in this Section 10.04 for any such Losses that arise out of Ashland's or such other person's failure to send or give a copy of the final prospectus or final Offering Memorandum to the person asserting an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission at or prior to the written confirmation of the sale of the Securities to such person if such statement or omission was corrected in such final prospectus or final Offering Memorandum and the Issuer has previously furnished copies thereof in accordance with this Agreement.
 
In the case of each offering registered pursuant to this Article X and each private placement pursuant to this Article X, Ashland shall agree, and each underwriter or initial purchaser, if any, participating therein shall agree, substantially in the same manner and to the same extent as set forth in the preceding paragraph, severally to indemnify and hold harmless the Issuer and each person who controls the Issuer within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act, and any director, officer, employee, stockholder, partner, agent or representative of the Issuer, with respect to any statement in or omission from such
 
Registration Statement (as amended or as supplemented, if amended or supplemented as aforesaid) or Offering Memorandum (as amended or as supplemented, if amended or supplemented as aforesaid), as applicable, if such statement or omission shall have been made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Issuer by Ashland or such underwriter or initial purchaser, as the case may be, specifically for use in connection with the Registration Statement, the prospectus contained in such Registration Statement or the Offering Memorandum, as applicable, or any such amendment thereof or supplement thereto.
 
Each party indemnified under this Section 10.04 shall, promptly after receipt of notice of the commencement of any claim against any such indemnified party in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof. The failure of any indemnified party to so notify an indemnifying party of any action shall not relieve the indemnifying party from any liability in respect of such action which it may have to such indemnified party on account of the indemnity contained in this Section 10.04, unless (and only to the extent) the indemnifying party was prejudiced by such failure, and in no event shall such failure relieve the indemnifying party from any other liability which it may have to such indemnified party. In case any action in respect of which indemnification may be sought hereunder shall be brought against any indemnified party and it shall notify an indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party shall be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may desire, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof through counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party, and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party shall not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 10.04 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof, other than reasonable costs of investigation (unless (i) such indemnified party reasonably objects to such assumption on the grounds that there may be defenses available to it which are different from or in addition to those available to such indemnifying party, (ii) the indemnifying party and such indemnified party shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such counsel or (iii) in the reasonable opinion
 
of such indemnified party representation of such indemnified party by the counsel retained by the indemnifying party would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between such indemnified party and any other party represented by such counsel in such proceeding, in which case the indemnified party shall be reimbursed by the indemnifying party for the reasonable expenses incurred in connection with retaining one firm of separate legal counsel; that (i) in circumstances where Ashland or an underwriter or initial purchaser is the indemnifying party, the indemnifying party shall not be liable for more than one firm of legal counsel for all indemnified parties and (ii) in circumstances where the Issuer is the indemnifying party, the indemnifying party shall not be liable for more than (A) one firm of legal counsel for Ashland, each person who controls Ashland within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act, and any director, officer, employee, stockholder, partner, agent or representative of Ashland, and (B) one firm of legal counsel for the underwriters or initial purchasers, if any, indemnified under this Section 10.04, each person who controls such underwriters or initial purchasers within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act, and any director, officer, employee, stockholder, partner, agent or representative of such underwriters or initial purchasers). No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any claim or pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which the indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim or proceeding. If an indemnifying party shall have expressly acknowledged its indemnification obligations with respect to a claim or pending or threatened proceeding, then the indemnified party with respect to such claim or pending or threatened proceeding shall not, without the prior written consent of the indemnifying party, effect any settlement of such claim or pending or threatened proceeding.
provided
 
If the indemnification provided for in this Section 10.04 is unavailable to an indemnified party or is insufficient to hold such indemnified party harmless from any Losses in respect of which this Section 10.04 would otherwise apply by its terms (other than by reason of exceptions provide herein), then each applicable
 
indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party, shall have a joint and several obligation to contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such Losses, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by and fault of the indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, in connection with the offering or private placement to which such contribution relates as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefit shall be determined by reference to, among other things, the amount of proceeds received by each party from the offering or private placement to which such contribution relates. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, each party's relative knowledge and access to information concerning the matter with respect to which the claim was asserted, and the opportunity to correct and prevent any statement or omission. The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of any Losses shall be deemed to include any legal or other fees or expenses incurred by such party in connection with any investigation or proceeding, to the extent such party would have been indemnified for such expenses if the indemnification provided for in this Section 10.04 was available to such party.
 
The parties hereto agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 10.04 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
 
SECTION 10.05. In connection with any underwritten offering or private placement of Securities pursuant to a Demand Registration under Section 10.01, the Issuer and Ashland shall enter into an underwriting agreement with the underwriters for such offering or a purchase agreement with the initial purchasers for such private placement, such underwriting agreement or purchase agreement to contain such representations and warranties by the Issuer and Ashland and such other terms and provisions as are customarily contained
Underwriting Agreement; Purchase Agreement.
 
in underwriting agreements with respect to secondary distributions or purchase agreements with respect to private placements, including, without limitation, indemnities and contribution to the effect and to the extent provided in Section 10.04 (and customary provisions with respect to indemnities and contribution by such underwriters or initial purchasers).
 
SECTION 10.06. For as long as Ashland holds Securities, the Issuer shall use its best efforts to file, on a timely basis, all annual, quarterly and other reports required to be filed by it under Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, as amended from time to time, or any successor statute or provisions.
Undertaking To File Reports.
 
 
 
SECTION 11.01. Each of the parties hereto shall cooperate with each other in good faith, and shall cause their respective officers, employees, agents, auditors and representatives to cooperate with each other in good faith, to cause the Closing to occur. In addition, each of the parties hereto shall use its commercially reasonable best efforts to cause the Closing to occur.
Cooperation; Commercially Reasonable Best Efforts.
 
SECTION 11.02. (a) Each of Marathon, USX and Ashland shall as promptly as practicable, but in no event later than 30 days following the relevant Exercise Date, file with the FTC and the DOJ the notification and report form, if any, required for the transactions contemplated hereby and any supplemental information requested in connection therewith pursuant to the HSR Act. Any such notification and report form and supplemental information shall be in substantial compliance with the requirements of the HSR Act. Each of Marathon, USX and Ashland shall furnish to the other such necessary information and reasonable assistance as the other may request in connection with its preparation of any filing or submission which is necessary under the HSR Act. Each of Marathon, USX and Ashland shall keep each other apprised of the status of any communications with, and any inquiries or requests for additional information from, the FTC and the
Antitrust Notification; FTC or DOJ Investigation.
 
DOJ and shall comply promptly with any such inquiry or request.
 
(b) In the event that Marathon, USX and Ashland are not required to file with the FTC and the DOJ any notification and report form pursuant to the HSR Act, but the FTC or the DOJ nevertheless commences an investigation with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby, each of Marathon, USX and Ashland shall comply promptly with any inquiry or request made by the DOJ or the FTC in connection with such investigation.
 
(c) In the event that Marathon, USX and Ashland file notification and report forms with the FTC and the DOJ pursuant to Section 11.02(a) or the FTC or the DOJ commences an investigation with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby, then, in addition to the obligations of Marathon, USX and Ashland set forth in Section 11.02(a) and 11.02(b), as applicable, Marathon, USX and Ashland agree as follows:
 
(i) In the case of Marathon's exercise of its Marathon Call Right, each of Marathon and USX shall take all such actions as are necessary to obtain any clearance required under the HSR Act or from the FTC or DOJ in connection with any such investigation, as applicable, for the purchase and sale of Ashland's Membership Interests and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest pursuant to this Agreement, including divesting or holding separate any assets or commencing or defending litigation; , , that neither Marathon nor USX shall be required to take any action proposed by the FTC or the DOJ that would or would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
provided
however
 
(ii) In the case of (A) Ashland's exercise of its Ashland Put Right or (B) Marathon's exercise of its Special Termination Right, each of Marathon and USX shall take all such actions as are necessary to obtain any clearance required under the HSR Act or from the FTC or DOJ in connection with any such investigation, as applicable, for the purchase and sale of Ashland's Membership Interests and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP
 
Interest pursuant to this Agreement, including divesting or holding separate any assets or commencing or defending litigation; , , that neither Marathon nor USX shall be required to take any action proposed by the FTC or the DOJ that would or would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of (A) the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (B) Marathon and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (C) USX and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
provided
however
 
(iii) In the case of Ashland's exercise of its Special Termination Right, Ashland shall take all such actions as are necessary to obtain any clearance required under the HSR Act or from the FTC or DOJ in connection with any such investigation, as applicable, for the purchase and sale of Marathon's Membership Interests pursuant to this Agreement, including divesting or holding separate any assets or commencing or defending litigation; , , that Ashland shall not be required to take any action proposed by the FTC or the DOJ that would or would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of (A) the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole or (B) Ashland and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
provided
however
 
SECTION 11.03. (a) Each of the parties hereto shall as promptly as practical, but in no event later than five Business Days following the relevant Exercise Date, file all documentation with all relevant Governmental Entities that is required to be filed with such Governmental Entities in connection with the purchase and sale of the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest on the Scheduled Closing Date. Each of the parties hereto shall keep the other apprised of the status of any communications with, and any inquiries or requests for additional information from, such Governmental Entities and shall comply promptly with any such inquiry or request.
Governmental Filings re: Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest.
 
(b) In addition to the obligations of the parties hereto set forth in Section 11.03(a), Marathon and USX agree as follows:
 
(i) In the case of Marathon's exercise of its Marathon Call Right, each of Marathon and USX shall take all such actions as are necessary to obtain any requisite approvals from such Governmental Entities as are required in connection with the purchase and sale of the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest pursuant to this Agreement, including commencing or defending litigation; , , that neither Marathon nor USX shall be required to take any such action that would or would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
provided
however
 
(ii) In the case of Marathon's exercise of its Special Termination Right or Ashland's exercise of its Ashland Put Right, each of Marathon and USX shall take all such actions as are necessary to obtain any requisite approvals from such Governmental Entities as are required in connection with the purchase and sale of the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest pursuant to this Agreement, including commencing or defending litigation; , , that neither Marathon nor USX shall be required to take any such action that would or would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of (A) the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (B) Marathon and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (C) USX and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
provided
however
 
SECTION 11.04. (a) In the event of (i) Marathon's exercise of its Marathon Call Right, (ii) Ashland's exercise of its Ashland Put Right or (iii) Marathon's exercise of its Special Termination Right, Ashland shall use its commercially reasonable best efforts to (A) terminate the outstanding Original Lease underlying each Ashland Designated Sublease Agreement on or prior to Closing and (B) contribute the related Subleased Property to the Company or one of its subsidiaries at no cost to the
Designated Sublease Agreements.
Ashland Designated Sublease Agreements.
 
Company or such subsidiary on or prior to Closing; , , that (i) Ashland shall not be obligated to pay more than a reasonable amount as consideration therefor to, or make more than a reasonable financial accommodation in favor of, or commence litigation against, a third party lessor with respect to any such underlying Original Lease in order to obtain any consent required from such lessor and (ii) any additional cost associated with exercising an option under the Original Lease to purchase Subleased Property shall be deemed not to constitute an obligation to pay more than a reasonable amount. In the event that Ashland is unable to terminate an outstanding Original Lease in accordance with this Section 11.04(a), then (i) the Company shall be entitled to continue to sublease the Subleased Property pursuant to the related Ashland Designated Sublease Agreement until the term of the Original Lease expires, (ii) Ashland shall continue to use its commercially reasonable best efforts to terminate the Original Lease and contribute the Subleased Property to the Company as provided above; , , that (A) Ashland shall not be obligated to pay more than a reasonable amount as consideration therefor to, or make more than a reasonable financial accommodation in favor of, or commence litigation against, a third party lessor with respect to any such underlying Original Lease in order to obtain any consent required from such lessor and (B) any additional cost associated with exercising an option under the Original Lease to purchase Subleased Property shall be deemed not to constitute an obligation to pay more than a reasonable amount and (iii) if Ashland subsequently acquires fee title to the Subleased Property, Ashland shall contribute such Subleased Property to the Company or one of its subsidiaries at no cost to the Company or such subsidiary at such time.
provided
however
provided
however
 
(b) In the event of Ashland's exercise of its Special Termination Right, Marathon shall use its commercially reasonable best efforts to (A) terminate the outstanding Original Lease underlying each Marathon Designated Sublease Agreement on or prior to Closing and (B) contribute the related Subleased Property to the Company or one of its subsidiaries at no cost to the Company or such subsidiary on or prior to Closing; , , that (i) Marathon shall not be obligated to pay more than a reasonable amount as consideration therefor to, or make more than a reasonable financial accommodation in favor of, or commence litigation against, a third party lessor with respect to any such
Marathon Designated Sublease Agreements.
provided
however
 
underlying Original Lease in order to obtain any consent required from such lessor and (ii) any additional cost associated with exercising an option under the Original Lease to purchase Subleased Property shall be deemed not to constitute an obligation to pay more than a reasonable amount. In the event that Marathon is unable to terminate an outstanding Original Lease in accordance with this Section 11.04(b), then (i) the Company shall be entitled to continue to sublease the Subleased Property pursuant to the related Marathon Designated Sublease Agreement until the term of the Original Lease expires, (ii) Marathon shall continue to use its commercially reasonable best efforts to terminate the Original Lease and contribute the Subleased Property to the Company as provided above; , , that (A) Marathon shall not be obligated to pay more than a reasonable amount as consideration therefor to, or make more than a reasonable financial accommodation in favor of, or commence litigation against, a third party lessor with respect to any such underlying Original Lease in order to obtain any consent required from such lessor and (B) any additional cost associated with exercising an option under the Original Lease to purchase Subleased Property shall be deemed not to constitute an obligation to pay more than a reasonable amount and (iii) if Marathon subsequently acquires fee title to the Subleased Property, Marathon shall contribute such Subleased Property to the Company or one of its subsidiaries at no cost to the Company or such subsidiary at such time.
provided
however
 
 
 
SECTION 12.01. Each of Marathon and USX covenants and agrees that, from the date hereof through the six-month anniversary of the earlier to occur of (a) the date that Ashland and its Affiliates do not own any Membership Interests, and (b) the date that Marathon and its Affiliates do not own any Membership Interests, it shall not, and it shall cause each of its Affiliates (including, for the avoidance of doubt, Employee Benefit Plans of USX, Marathon and their respective Affiliates) not to, singly or as part of a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate or other
Restrictions of Certain Actions by Marathon and USX
 
group (as those terms are defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly:
 
(i) acquire, offer to acquire, or agree to acquire, by purchase, gift or otherwise, more than 1% of any class of any Ashland Voting Securities, except (A) pursuant to a stock split, stock dividend, rights offering, recapitalization, reclassification or similar transaction, (B) in connection with the transfer of Ashland Voting Securities to a Marathon or USX Employee Benefit Plan as contemplated by Section 3.1(v) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement or (C) the ownership by any Employee Benefit Plan of USX, Marathon or any of their respective Affiliates of any interest in any diversified index, mutual or pension fund managed by an independent investment advisor, which fund in turn holds, directly or indirectly, Ashland Voting Securities; that not more than 5% of such fund's assets are comprised of Ashland Voting Securities;
provided
 
(ii) make, or in any way participate in any "solicitation" of "proxies" to vote (as such terms are defined in Rule 14a-1 under the Exchange Act), solicit any consent or communicate with or seek to advise or influence any person or entity with respect to the voting of any Ashland Voting Securities or become a "participant" in any "election contest" (as such terms are defined or used in Rule 14a-11 under the Exchange Act) with respect to Ashland;
 
(iii) form, join, encourage or in any way participate in the formation of, any "person" within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act with respect to any Ashland Voting Securities;
 
(iv) deposit any Ashland Voting Securities into a voting trust or subject any such Ashland Voting Securities to any arrangement or agreement with respect to the voting thereof;
 
(v) initiate, propose or otherwise solicit shareholders for the approval of one or more shareholder proposals with respect to Ashland as described in Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, or induce or attempt to induce any other person to initiate any shareholder proposal;
 
(vi) seek election to or seek to place a representative on the Board of Directors of Ashland or seek the removal of any member of the Board of Directors of Ashland;
 
(vii) except with the approval of management of Ashland, call or seek to have called any meeting of the shareholders of Ashland;
 
(viii) otherwise act to seek to control, disrupt or influence the management, business, operations, policies or affairs of Ashland;
 
(ix) (A) solicit, seek to effect, negotiate with or provide any information to any other person with respect to, (B) make any statement or proposal, whether written or oral, to the Board of Directors of Ashland or any director or officer of Ashland with respect to, or (C) otherwise make any public announcement or proposal whatsoever with respect to, any form of business combination transaction involving Ashland (other than the Transaction), including, without limitation, a merger, exchange offer, or liquidation of Ashland's assets, or any restructuring, recapitalization or similar transaction with respect to Ashland;
 
(x) seek to have Ashland waive, amend or modify any of the provisions contained in this Section 12.01;
 
(xi) disclose or announce any intention, plan or arrangement inconsistent with the foregoing; or
 
(xii) advise, assist, instigate or encourage any third party to do any of the foregoing.
 
If either Marathon or USX or any of their respective Affiliates owns or acquires any Ashland Voting Securities in violation of this Section 12.01, such Ashland Voting Securities shall immediately be disposed of to persons who (i) are not Marathon or USX or Affiliates thereof and (ii) do not own, individually or as part of a "group" (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), more than 5% of the then outstanding Ashland Voting Securities; that Ashland may also pursue any other available remedy to which it may be entitled as a result of such violation.
provided
 
SECTION 12.02. Ashland covenants and agrees that, from the date hereof through the later to occur of (a) the six-month anniversary of the earlier to occur of (i) the date that Marathon and its Affiliates do not own any Membership Interests and (ii) the date that Ashland and its Affiliates do not own any Membership Interests and (b) in the event that Ashland or its Affiliates acquires USX Voting Securities pursuant to the Closing of the Ashland Put Right, the date on which Ashland and its Affiliates do not own more than 5% of the then outstanding USX Voting Securities, it shall not, and it shall cause each of its Affiliates (including, for the avoidance of doubt, Employee Benefit Plans of Ashland and its Affiliates) not to, singly or as part of a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate or other group (as those terms are defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly:
Restrictions of Certain Actions by Ashland.
 
(i) acquire, offer to acquire, or agree to acquire, by purchase, gift or otherwise, more than 1% of any class of USX Voting Securities, except (A) pursuant to a stock split, stock dividend, rights offering, recapitalization, reclassification or similar transaction and except for any issuance of USX Voting Securities to Ashland as payment of any portion of the Ashland Put Price in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement or (B) the ownership by any Employee Benefit Plan of Ashland or any of its Affiliates of any interest in any diversified index, mutual or pension fund managed by an independent investment advisor, which fund in turn holds, directly or indirectly, USX Voting Securities; that not more than 5% of such fund's assets are comprised of USX Voting Securities;
provided
 
(ii) make, or in any way participate in any "solicitation" of "proxies" to vote (as such terms are defined in Rule 14a-1 under the Exchange Act), solicit any consent or communicate with or seek to advise or influence any person or entity with respect to the voting of any USX Voting Securities or become a "participant" in any "election contest" (as such terms are defined or used in Rule 14a-11 under the Exchange Act) with respect to USX;
 
(iii) form, join, encourage or in any way participate in the formation of, any "person" within
 
the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act with respect to any USX Voting Securities;
 
(iv) deposit any USX Voting Securities into a voting trust or subject any such USX Voting Securities to any arrangement or agreement with respect to the voting thereof;
 
(v) initiate, propose or otherwise solicit shareholders for the approval of one or more shareholder proposals with respect to USX as described in Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, or induce or attempt to induce any other person to initiate any shareholder proposal;
 
(vi) seek election to or seek to place a representative on the Board of Directors of USX or seek the removal of any member of the Board of Directors of USX or seek the removal of any member of the Board of Directors of USX;
 
(vii) except with the approval of management of USX, call or seek to have called any meeting of the shareholders of USX;
 
(viii) otherwise act to seek to control, disrupt or influence the management, business, operations, policies or affairs of USX;
 
(ix) (A) solicit, seek to effect, negotiate with or provide any information to any other person with respect to, (B) make any statement or proposal, whether written or oral, to the Board of Directors of USX or any director or officer of USX with respect to, or (C) otherwise make any public announcement or proposal whatsoever with respect to, any form of business combination transaction involving USX (other than the Transaction), including, without limitation, a merger, exchange offer, or liquidation of USX's assets, or any restructuring, recapitalization or similar transaction with respect to USX;
 
(x) seek to have USX waive, amend or modify any of the provisions contained in this Section 12.02;
 
(xi) disclose or announce any intention, plan or arrangement inconsistent with the foregoing; or
 
(xii) advise, assist, instigate or encourage any third party to do any of the foregoing.
 
If Ashland or any of its Affiliates owns or acquires any USX Voting Securities in violation of this Section 12.02, such USX Voting Securities shall immediately be disposed of to persons who (i) are not Ashland or Affiliates thereof and (ii) do not own, individually or as part of a "group" (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), more than 5% of the then outstanding USX Voting Securities; that USX may also pursue any other available remedy to which it may be entitled as a result of such violation.
provided
 
 
 
SECTION 13.01. In the event that Ashland's Representatives grant Marathon's Representatives the Ashland Representatives Revocable Proxies pursuant to Section 5.02(a) and Ashland grants to Marathon or a person designated by Marathon, as applicable, the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Revocable Proxy pursuant to Section 5.02(c), each of Marathon, USX and the Company agree to indemnify and hold Ashland, its Representatives, their respective Affiliates and any director, officer, employee, stockholder, partner, agent or representative of Ashland or its Affiliates harmless against any and all Losses to which they or any of them may become subject, insofar as any such Losses shall arise out of, are based upon or relate to any obligations or liabilities of whatever kind and nature, primary or secondary, direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, known or unknown, whether or not accrued, which arise on or after the relevant Exercise Date and which are attributable to (i) in the event that the Closing occurs, (A) the Company and its subsidiaries or LOOP, LLC or LOCAP, Inc., (B) Ashland's ownership interest in the Company or the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest, (C) actions taken by Marathon's Representatives pursuant to the Ashland Representatives Revocable Proxies or (D) actions taken by Marathon or the Company, as applicable, pursuant to the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Revocable Proxy, and (ii) in the event that Ashland or Marathon revokes Ashland's Ashland Put Exercise Notice or Marathon's Marathon Call
Indemnification re: Ashland Representatives' Revocable Proxies and the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Revocable Proxy.
 
Exercise Notice pursuant to Section 9.03(a), 9.04(a), 9.05, 9.08(a) or 9.09, or Ashland revokes Marathon's Special Termination Exercise Notice pursuant to Section 9.08(a) or 9.09 (A) actions taken by Marathon's Representatives pursuant to the Ashland Representatives Revocable Proxies or (B) actions taken by Marathon or the Company, as applicable, pursuant to the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Revocable Proxy.
 
SECTION 13.02. In the event that Marathon's Representatives grant Ashland's Representatives the Marathon Representatives Revocable Proxies pursuant to Section 5.02(b), each of Ashland and the Company agree to indemnify and hold Marathon, its Representatives, their respective Affiliates and any director, officer, employee, stockholder, partner, agent or representative of Marathon or its Affiliates harmless against any and all Losses to which they or any of them may become subject, insofar as any such Losses shall arise out of, are based upon or relate to any obligations or liabilities of whatever kind and nature, primary or secondary, direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, known or unknown, whether or not accrued, which arise on or after the Special Termination Exercise Date and which are attributable to (i) in the event that the Closing occurs, (A) the Company and its subsidiaries or (B) actions taken by Ashland's Representatives pursuant to the Marathon Representatives Revocable Proxies and (ii) in the event that Marathon revokes Ashland's Special Termination Exercise Notice pursuant to Section 9.08(a) or 9.09, actions taken by Ashland's Representatives pursuant to the Marathon Representatives Revocable Proxies.
Indemnification re: Marathon Representatives Revocable Proxies.
 
SECTION 13.03. To the extent that Ashland is unable to Transfer the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest to Marathon, the Company or a person designated by Marathon, as applicable, at Closing, and as a result thereof, Ashland enters into any arrangement under which Marathon, the Company or such other person shall obtain the economic claims, rights and benefits under the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP interest, including a grant to Marathon, the Company or such other person, as applicable, of the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Irrevocable Proxy, each of Marathon, USX and the Company agree to indemnify and hold Ashland, its Representatives, their respective Affiliates and any director, officer, employee, stockholder, partner, agent or
Indemnification re: Transfer of Economic Interests in the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest to Marathon, the Company or a Person Designated by Marathon.
 
representative of Ashland or its Affiliates harmless against any and all Losses to which they or any of them may become subject, insofar as any such Losses shall arise out of, be based upon or relate to any obligations or liabilities of whatever kind and nature, primary or secondary, direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, known or unknown, whether or not accrued, which arise on or after the relevant Exercise Date and which are attributable to (i) LOOP, LLC, (ii) LOCAP, Inc., (iii) Ashland's ownership interest in LOOP, LLC and LOCAP, Inc., (iv) any such arrangements between Ashland and Marathon, the Company or such other person or (v) actions taken by Marathon, the Company or such other person, as applicable, pursuant to the Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Irrevocable Proxies.
 
SECTION 13.04. The procedures for Indemnification under this Article XIII shall be the procedures for indemnification set forth in Section 9.7 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Procedures Relating to Indemnification Under This Article XIII.
 
 
 
SECTION 14.01. (a) Subject to Sections 14.01(b), 14.01(d) and 14.03(c), and except to the extent otherwise provided in , each of Marathon, USX and Ashland hereby agrees that during the Term of the Company, it shall not, and it shall cause its Affiliates not to, engage in any business within North America which is substantially in competition with (i) the Company's Business conducted on the date hereof or (ii) any new line of business of the Company that the Board of Managers has approved in accordance with Section 8.07(b) of the LLC Agreement (but only if and to the extent that the Board of Managers specifically determined pursuant to Section 8.07(b) of the LLC Agreement that such new line of business should also constitute a Company Competitive Business) (each such business in clauses (i) and (ii), a ""); , , that nothing in this Section 14.01 shall be deemed or interpreted to prohibit Ashland or any of its Affiliates from engaging in the Valvoline Business.
Competitive Businesses.
Schedule 14.01(a)
Company Competitive Business
provided
however
 
(b) Notwithstanding any limitation contained in Section 14.01(a), Marathon, USX and Ashland and their respective Affiliates shall be permitted to engage in a Company Competitive Business if: (i) Marathon or Ashland, as applicable, shall have first presented the Company, at a meeting of the Board of Managers at which at least one of the Representatives of the other Member was present, with the opportunity to pursue or engage in such Company Competitive Business and (ii) one or more of the Representatives of the other Member on the Board of Managers shall have voted against the Company pursuing such Company Competitive Business.
 
(c) If Marathon, USX or Ashland or any of their respective Affiliates is permitted pursuant to Section 14.01(b) to engage in a Company Competitive Business and, in connection therewith, wishes to use any of the properties, facilities or other assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, Marathon or Ashland and their respective Representatives will negotiate in good faith with the Company to reach a reasonable agreement as to the nature and scope of any agreement between the Company or any such subsidiary and such Member with respect to the use of such property, facility or other assets. Any transaction relating to such property, facility or assets shall be deemed for purposes of the LLC Agreement to constitute an Affiliate Transaction that was entered into outside the ordinary course of the Company's business.
 
(d) Notwithstanding any limitation contained in Section 14.01(a), Marathon, USX and Ashland and their respective Affiliates shall be permitted to purchase: (i) less than an aggregate of 10% of any class of stock of a person engaged, directly or indirectly, in one or more Competitive Businesses (a ""); that such stock is listed on a national securities exchange or is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ; (ii) less than 10% in value of any instrument of Indebtedness of a Company Competitive Third Party; (iii) a Company Competitive Third Party (whether by merger or purchase of
Company Competitive Third Party
provided
 
all or substantially all of such Company Competitive Third Party's assets) which engages, directly or indirectly, in one or more Company Competitive Businesses which accounted for less than 20% of such Company Competitive Third Party's consolidated revenues for the most recently completed fiscal quarter; and (iv) a Company Competitive Third Party (whether by merger or purchase of all or substantially all of such Company Competitive Third Party's assets or otherwise) which engages, directly or indirectly, in one or more Company Competitive Businesses which accounted for greater than 20% of such Company Competitive Third Party's consolidated revenues for the most recently completed fiscal quarter; that a purchase by Marathon, USX or Ashland or any of their respective Affiliates of a Company Competitive Third Party pursuant to this clause (iv) shall only be permitted if within 30 Business Days after the earlier to occur of (A) the execution of definitive agreements with respect to such purchase or (B) the closing of such purchase, Marathon, USX, Ashland or such Affiliate, as applicable, shall present the Company with the opportunity to purchase the portion of such Company Competitive Third Party's business that is in substantial competition with the Company in North America (the "") at a purchase price determined in accordance with Section 14.04, at a special or regular meeting of the Board of Managers (such meeting, a "").
provided
Company Competitive Business Assets
14.01(d) Presentation Meeting
 
(e) If the Board of Managers determines at the 14.01(d) Presentation Meeting (by a vote of a majority of the Representatives of the Member not purchasing such Company Competitive Third Party's business at a special or regular meeting of the Board of Managers (which majority shall constitute a quorum for purposes of the transaction of business)) to purchase the Company Competitive Business Assets, the closing date with respect to such purchase shall not be later than 60 days after the date of the determination of the Purchase Price pursuant to Section 14.04 or, if later, 30 days after the Company has received any antitrust clearance or other Governmental Approval required in connection with such purchase (the ""). If the Company breaches its obligation to purchase the Company Competitive Business Assets on the 14.01(d) Scheduled Closing Date after
14.01(d) Scheduled Closing Date
 
the Board of Managers shall have determined to make such purchase as provided in the immediately preceding sentence (other than where such breach is due to circumstances beyond the Company's reasonable control), then Marathon, USX, Ashland or such Affiliate, as applicable, shall be permitted to retain such Company Competitive Business Assets and the Company shall cease to have the right to purchase such Company Competitive Business Assets. If the Company breaches its obligation to purchase the Company Competitive Business Assets on the 14.01(d) Scheduled Closing Date after the Board of Managers shall have determined to make such purchase as provided in the first sentence of this Section 14.01(e)and such breach is due to circumstances beyond the Company's reasonable control, then, if the closing of the purchase by the Company of the Company Competitive Business Assets does not occur within 270 days after the Scheduled Closing Date, Marathon, USX, Ashland or such Affiliate, as applicable, shall be permitted to retain such Company Competitive Business Assets and the Company shall cease to have the right to purchase such Company Competitive Business Assets. If the Board of Managers determines at the 14.01(d) Presentation Meeting not to purchase such Company Competitive Business Assets, then Marathon, USX, Ashland or such Affiliate, as applicable, shall be permitted to retain such Company Competitive Business Assets and the Company shall cease to have the right to purchase such Company Competitive Business Assets.
 
(f) It is the intention of each of the parties hereto that if any of the restrictions or covenants contained in this Section 14.01 is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover a geographic area or to be for a length of time that is not permitted by Applicable Law, or is in any way construed by a court of competent jurisdiction to be too broad or to any extent invalid, such provision shall not be construed to be null, void and of no effect, but to the extent such provision would be valid or enforceable under Applicable Law, a court of competent jurisdiction shall construe and interpret or reform this Section 14.01 to provide for a covenant having the maximum enforceable geographic area, time period and other provisions (not greater than those contained in this Section 14.01) as shall be valid and enforceable under such Applicable Law. Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that any breach of the terms, conditions or covenants set forth in this Section 14.01 shall be competitively unfair and may cause irreparable damage to the Company because of the special, unique, unusual, extraordinary and intellectual character of the Company's business, and the Company's recovery of damages at law will not be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, each of the parties hereto agrees that for any breach of the terms, covenants or agreements of this Section 14.01, a restraining order or an injunction or both may be issued against such person, in addition to any other rights or remedies the Company or the other parties hereto may have.
 
SECTION 14.02. (a) Each of Marathon, USX and Ashland hereby agrees that during the Term of the Company, without the consent of each of the Members, it shall not, and it shall cause its Affiliates not to, solicit, recruit or hire any employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (other than solicitations that are directed at the public in general in publications available to the public in general) if:
Detrimental Activities.
Solicitation, Recruiting or Hiring of Employees.
 
(i) such employee is an Executive Officer or the officer principally in charge of environmental health and safety and human resources, unless, subject to clauses (iii) and (iv) below, such solicitation, recruitment or hiring is consented to in advance by Ashland (in the case of a solicitation, recruitment or hiring by Marathon, USX or any of their respective Affiliates) or by Marathon (in the case of a solicitation, recruitment or hiring by Ashland or any of its Affiliates), which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld;
 
(ii) such employee reports directly to (A) an Executive Officer or the officer principally in charge of environmental health and safety and human resources(a "") or (B) a Senior Employee (a ""), unless, subject to clauses (iii) and (iv) below, at the time of such solicitation, recruitment or hiring, the total number of Senior Employees and Mid-Level Employees that have been hired by Marathon, USX, Ashland and their respective Affiliates during the then preceding twenty-four months is less than 10% of the total number of Senior Employees and Mid-Level Employees employed by the Company at the time Marathon, USX, Ashland or an Affiliate thereof wishes to solicit, recruit or hire such Senior Employee or Mid-Level Employee (based on the average number of Senior Employees and Mid-Level Employees employed by the Company during such twenty-four-month period);
Senior Employee
Mid-Level Employee
 
(iii) the hiring of such employee, when considered together with all other employees hired by Marathon, USX, Ashland and their respective Affiliates during the then preceding twenty-four months, would have or would reasonably be expected to have, a significant
 
detrimental impact on the department of the Company in which such employee is then working; or
 
(iv) such employee is being solicited, recruited or hired for a position in a Competitive Business of such person or such person's Affiliates.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the employees of the Company shall not be required to accept any job offer by Marathon, USX, Ashland or any of their respective Affiliates and a refusal to accept such a job offer shall not negatively affect an employee's career opportunities at the Company.
 
(b) Each of Marathon, USX and Ashland (each, a "") hereby agrees that during the Term of the Company, it shall not, and it shall cause its Affiliates not to, disclose or furnish to anyone any confidential information relating to the Company and its subsidiaries ("") except pursuant to a confidentiality agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the other parties hereto which expressly provides that the other parties hereto shall be a beneficiary thereof (a ""). The foregoing restriction on disclosure of Confidential Information shall not apply to (i) information which is or becomes part of the public domain through no fault or breach of the Disclosing Party; (ii) information which at the time of disclosure is already in the possession of the Disclosing Party in written form and was not received directly or indirectly from the Company or any of its subsidiaries under a requirement of confidentiality; (iii) information received by the Disclosing Party from a third party; that the Disclosing Party, after reasonable inquiry, has no reason to believe that the third party obtained the information directly or indirectly from the Company or any of its subsidiaries under a requirement of confidentiality; (iv) information required to be disclosed under subpoena or other mandatory legal process; , that the Disclosing Party shall give the Company timely notice of the service of the subpoena or other process so that the Company may seek a protective order or other legal remedy to prevent such disclosure; (v) information which has been subsequently and independently acquired or developed by the Disclosing Party without violating any of its obligations under this Section 14.02(b) or under any Confidentiality Agreement; and (vi) information which is required or advisable to be disclosed
Disclosure of Confidential Information.
Disclosing Party
Confidential Information
Confidentiality Agreement
provided
provided
 
under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Disclosing Party shall be permitted to disclose Confidential Information to its directors, officers, employees, auditors, agents, advisors and representatives (such persons being collectively referred as its "") if the Disclosing Party informs its Representatives of the confidential nature of the Confidential Information and obtains their agreement to be bound by this Section 14.02(b) and not to disclose such Confidential Information to any other person. Each Disclosing Party shall be responsible for any breach of this Section 14.02 by its Representatives.
Representatives
 
SECTION 14.03. (a) Subject to Sections 14.03(b) and 14.03(d), the Company hereby agrees that it shall not, and it shall cause its Affiliates (other than Marathon, Ashland and their respective subsidiaries (other than the Company and its subsidiaries)) not to, engage in any business worldwide which is substantially in competition with the Valvoline Business. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Section 14.03(a) shall terminate on the first date on which Ashland and its Affiliates shall own (beneficially or otherwise) less than 20% of the Valvoline Business.
Limitations on the Company Entering into the Valvoline Business.
 
(b)(i) Notwithstanding any limitation contained in Section 14.03(a), if in any two consecutive calendar years, (A) Valvoline shall not have purchased from the Company and its subsidiaries a quantity of lube oil at least equal to the Minimum Lube Oil Purchase Amount and (B)(1) such failure to purchase was due to the fact that the Company and Valvoline could not in good faith agree to mutually acceptable terms and conditions for the sale by the Company and its subsidiaries to Valvoline of at least such quantity of lube oil and (2) such failure was not due, in whole or in part, to the failure of the Company and its subsidiaries to produce and offer for sale to Valvoline the Minimum Lube Oil Purchase Amount during either such calendar year, the failure of the Company and its subsidiaries to produce and offer for sale to Valvoline lube oil satisfying contractual specifications or any other failure of the Company or its subsidiaries to satisfy in any material respect any of its then existing material contractual obligations to Valvoline, then the Company and its subsidiaries shall be permitted to
 
engage in a business which is substantially in competition with Valvoline's Bulk Motor Oil Business and/or Valvoline's Packaged Motor Oil Business (but, except as expressly permitted in Section 14.03(a), no other business that constitutes part of the Valvoline Business); that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and its subsidiaries shall not be permitted to enter into or engage in any such business if the Company and its subsidiaries shall have substantially ceased production at the Catlettsburg, Kentucky refinery of lube oil for sale to third parties (other than due to a force majeure or an inability to find a willing bu consecutive days or more prior to the time the Company and its subsidiaries shall first enter or propose to enter into such business.
provided
 
(ii) Notwithstanding any limitation contained in Section 14.03(a), if in each of the four calendar years following the consecutive two-year period provided for in Section 14.03(b)(i), (A) Valvoline shall not have purchased from the Company and its subsidiaries a quantity of lube oil at least equal to the Minimum Lube Oil Purchase Amount and (B)(1) such failure to purchase was due to the fact that the Company and Valvoline could not in good faith agree to mutually acceptable terms and conditions for the sale by the Company and its subsidiaries to Valvoline of at least such quantity of lube oil and (2) such failure was not due, in whole or in part, to the failure of the Company and its subsidiaries to produce and offer for sale to Valvoline the Minimum Lube Oil Purchase Amount during any such calendar year, the failure of the Company and its subsidiaries to produce and offer for sale to Valvoline lube oil satisfying contractual specifications or any other failure of the Company or its subsidiaries to satisfy in any material respect any of its existing material contractual obligations to Valvoline, then at any time after the conclusion of such consecutive four-year period, the Company and its subsidiaries shall be permitted to engage in a business which is substantially in competition with Valvoline's Private Label Packaged Motor Oil Business and/or Valvoline's Quick Lube Business; that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and its subsidiaries shall not be permitted to enter into or engage in any such business if the Company and its subsidiaries shall have
provided
 
substantially ceased production at the Catlettsburg, Kentucky refinery of lube oil for sale to third parties (other than due to a force majeure or an inability to find a willing buyer for its lube oil) for any period of 90 consecutive days or more prior to the time the Company and its subsidiaries shall first enter or propose to enter into such business.
 
(iii) The provisions set forth in this Section 14.03(b) permitting the Company and its subsidiaries to engage in a new business in competition with the Valvoline Business if certain conditions are satisfied shall be an exception only to the super majority vote requirement in Section 8.08(a) of the LLC Agreement, and shall not be an exception to any other supermajority vote requirements of Section 8.08 of the LLC Agreement.
 
(c) Notwithstanding any limitation contained in Section 14.01(a), if at any time the Company or any of its subsidiaries enters into, other than as expressly permitted in Section 14.03(d), either the Bulk Motor Oil Business, the Packaged Motor Oil Business, the Private Label Packaged Motor Oil Business or the Quick Lube Business, Ashland and its subsidiaries thereafter shall be permitted to enter into a business which is substantially in competition with the Company's lube oil production business.
 
(d) Notwithstanding any limitation contained in Section 14.03(a), subject to Section 8.08 of the LLC Agreement, the Company and its subsidiaries shall be permitted to (i) engage, directly or through its own dealers, jobbers or jobber dealers, in the business currently conducted under the brand name "Maralube Express" (the "); (ii) engage, directly or through its own dealers, jobbers or jobber dealers, in the truck stop oil change business; (iii) engage, directly or through its own dealers, jobbers, or jobber dealers, in the oil, lubricants, antifreeze and other, in each case automotive fluid change business and auto and light truck maintenance service, in each case incidental to operating their service stations or other retail units; (iv) engage, directly or through its own dealers, jobbers, or jobber dealers, in the sale of lubricants to farm, government, school and other similar commercial accounts; (v) engage, directly or through its own dealers, jobbers, or jobber dealers, in the sale of car care products and chemicals,
Maralube Express Business"
 
antifreeze and rust preventatives in service stations or similar retail units that are owned or operated by them, in each case incidental to operating their service stations or other retail units; (vi) engage, directly or through its own dealers, jobbers, or jobber dealers, in the collection of used lubricants at service stations or similar retail units that are owned or operated by them, in each case incidental to operating their service stations or other retail units; (vii) enter into contractual agreements with Valvoline or other third party packagers with respect to the packaging by Valvoline or such other third party packagers of lube oil products for sale (A) in service stations or similar retail units that are owned or operated by the Company and its subsidiaries or its dealers, jobbers or jobber dealers or to farm, government, school or other similar commercial accounts pursuant to clause (iv) above and (B) solely under the brandnames or trademarks of such service stations; and (viii) purchase a Person (whether by merger or purchase of all or substantially all the assets or otherwise) which engages, directly or indirectly, in a business that is substantially in competition with the Valvoline Business (a "") provided that less than 33% of such Valvoline Competitive Third Party's consolidated revenues for the most recently completed fiscal quarter are derived from businesses which are substantially in competition with Valvoline's Business; further that a purchase by the Company or one of its subsidiaries of a Valvoline Competitive Third Party shall be permitted only if within 30 Business Days after the earlier to occur of (A) the execution of definitive agreements with respect to such purchase or (B) the closing of such purchase, the Company shall give notice (a "") to Ashland, identifying the portion of such Valvoline Competitive Third Party's business that is substantially in competition with the Valvoline Business (the "") and offering to sell to Ashland such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets at a purchase price determined in accordance with Section 14.04.
Valvoline Competitive Third Party
provided
14.03(d) Offer Notice
Valvoline Competitive Business Assets
 
(e) Ashland shall have 90 days from receipt of the 14.03(d) Offer Notice to elect, by notice to the Company (a ""), to purchase such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets. If Ashland makes such election, the notice of election shall state a closing date not later than 60 days after the date of the Section 14.03(d) Purchase Election Notice or, if later, 30 days after Ashland has received any antitrust clearance or other
14.3(d) Purchase Election Notice
 
Governmental Approval required in connection with such purchase (a ""). If Ashland breaches its obligation to purchase the Valvoline Competitive Business Assets on the 14.03(d) Scheduled Closing Date after giving notice of its election to make such purchase (other than where such breach is due to circumstances beyond Ashland's reasonable control), then the Company shall be permitted to retain such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets. If Ashland breaches its obligation to purchase the Valvoline Competitive Business Assets on the 14.03(d) Scheduled Closing Date after giving notice of its election to make such purchase and such breach is due to circumstances beyond Ashland's reasonable control, then, if the closing of the purchase by Ashland of the Valvoline Competitive Business Assets does not occur within 270 days after the Scheduled Closing Date, the Company shall be permitted to retain such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets. If Ashland elects not to purchase such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets, then the Company shall be permitted to retain such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets.
14.03(d) Scheduled Closing Date
 
(f) (i) If the Company and its subsidiaries are permitted under Section 14.03(d) to retain any Valvoline Competitive Business Assets and, at any time thereafter, the Company or any such subsidiary shall determine to sell such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets (or any portion thereof), then the Company shall give notice (a "") to Ashland, identifying the proposed purchaser from whom it has received a bona fide offer and setting forth the proposed sale price (which shall be payable only in cash or purchase money obligations secured solely by such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets (or portion thereof) being sold) and the other material terms and conditions upon which the Company is proposing to sell such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets to such identified purchaser (or portion thereof). No such sale shall encompass or be conditioned upon the sale or purchase of any property other than such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets (or portion thereof). Ashland shall have 90 days from receipt of the Valvoline Offer Notice to elect, by notice to the Company (a ""), to purchase such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets (or portion thereof) on the terms and conditions set forth in the 14.03(f) Valvoline Offer Notice.
14.03(f) Valvoline Offer Notice
14.03(f) Valvoline Purchase Election Notice
 
(ii) If Ashland makes such election, the notice of election shall state a closing date not later than 60 days after the date of the 14.03(f) Valvoline Purchase Election Notice. If Ashland breaches its obligation to purchase such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets (or portion thereof) on the same terms and conditions as those contained in the 14.03(f) Valvoline Offer Notice after giving notice of its election to make such purchase (other than where such breach is due to circumstances beyond Ashland's reasonable control), then the Company may, at any time for a period of 270 days after such default, sell such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets (or portion thereof) to any person at any price and upon any other terms without further compliance with the procedures set forth in this Section 14.03(f).
 
(iii) If Ashland gives notice within the 90-day period following the 14.03(f) Valvoline Offer Notice from the Company that it elects not to purchase such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets (or portion thereof), the Company may, within 120 days after the end of such 90-day period (or 270 days in the case where such parties have received a second request under HSR), sell such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets to the identified purchaser on terms and conditions no less favorable to the Company than the terms and conditions set forth in such 14.03(f) Valvoline Offer Notice. In the event the Company shall desire to offer such Valvoline Competitive Business Assets (or portion thereof) for sale to such identified purchaser or to any other person on terms and conditions less favorable to it than those previously set forth in a 14.03(f) Valvoline Offer Notice, the procedures set forth in this Section 14.03(f) must again be initiated and applied with respect to the terms and conditions as modified.
 
(g) It is the intention of each of the parties hereto that if any of the restrictions or covenants contained in this Section 14.03 is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover a geographic area or to be for a length of time that is not permitted by Applicable Law, or is in any way construed by a court of competent jurisdiction to be too broad or to any extent invalid, such provision shall not be construed to be null, void and of no effect, but to the extent such provision would be valid or enforceable under Applicable Law, a court of competent jurisdiction shall construe and interpret or reform this Section 14.03 to provide for a covenant having the maximum enforceable geographic area, time period and other
 
provisions (not greater than those contained in this Section 14.03) as shall be valid and enforceable under such Applicable Law. Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that any breach of the terms, conditions or covenants set forth in this Section 14.03 shall be competitively unfair and may cause irreparable damage because of the special, unique, unusual, extraordinary and intellectual character of the applicable business, and recovery of damages at law will not be an adequate remedy. Accordingly, each of the parties hereto agrees that for any breach of the terms, covenants or agreements of this Section 14.03, a restraining order or an injunction or both may be issued against such person, in addition to any other rights or remedies the aggrieved party may have.
 
(h) For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
(i) "" means sales of blended (finished) motor oil in tanker truck, barge and tanker railcar quantities.
Bulk Motor Oil Business
 
(ii) "" means a quantity of lube oil at least equal to 70% of the quantity of lube oil that Valvoline purchased from the Catlettsburg, Kentucky refinery in the 1997 calendar year.
Minimum Lube Oil Purchase Amount
 
(iii) "" means the ownership, use and/or operation (including toll processing through a third party's plant) of packaging facilities for the sale of packaged motor oil under third party brandnames or trademarks.
Packaged Motor Oil Business
 
(iv) "" means the sale of packaged motor oil under third party and/or the Company's brand names or trademarks.
Private Label Packaged Motor Oil Business
 
(v) "" means the provision of services for changing oil, lubricants, antifreeze and other automotive fluids for passenger car and light commercial trucks and the provision of maintenance checks and related services.
Quick Lube Business
 
(vi) "" means the Valvoline division of Ashland.
Valvoline
 
(vii) "" means the business currently engaged in by Valvoline, including (A) the production and marketing of automotive and industrial oils, automotive car care products and chemicals, antifreeze, rust preventives, (B) automotive services and (C) environmental recycling services (including collection of used oil, filters and related items). For the avoidance of doubt, the Valvoline Business includes the Bulk Motor Oil Business, the Packaged Motor Oil Business, the Private Label Packaged Motor Oil Business and the Quick Lube Business.
Valvoline Business
 
SECTION 14.04. In the event that (x) the Company elects to purchase any Company Competitive Business Assets pursuant to the proviso to Section 14.01(d)(iv) or (y) Ashland elects to purchase any Valvoline Competitive Business Assets pursuant to the second proviso to Section 14.03(d)(viii), the purchase price of such Company Competitive Business Assets or Valvoline Competitive Business Assets (the "") shall be determined pursuant to the following procedures:
Purchase Price of Competitive Business Assets.
Competitive Business Purchase Price
 
(a) For a period of 15 days following the date the Board of Managers approves such purchase, Marathon and Ashland will negotiate in good faith to seek to reach an agreement as to the Competitive Business Purchase Price. If Marathon and Ashland reach such an agreement, then the Competitive Business Purchase Price shall be deemed to be the amount so agreed upon by Marathon and Ashland.
Negotiation Period.
 
(b) (i) In the event Marathon and Ashland are unable to reach an agreement as to the Competitive Business Purchase Price within the 15 day period referred to in clause (a) above, then within five Business Days after the expiration of such 15-day period (such fifth Business Day being referred to herein as the ""), Marathon and Ashland each shall select a nationally recognized investment banking firm to (A) prepare a report which (1) sets forth such investment banking firm's determination of the Competitive Business Purchase Price (which shall be a single amount as opposed to a range) and (2) includes work papers which indicate the basis for the calculations of the Competitive Business Purchase Price
Appraisal Process.
14.04 Appraisal Process Commencement Date
 
(a "") and (B) deliver to Marathon or Ashland, as the case may be, an oral and written opinion addressed to such party as to the Competitive Business Purchase Price.
14.04 Appraisal Report
 
(ii) The fees and expenses of each investment banking firm shall be paid by the party selecting such investment banking firm.
 
(iii) Each of Marathon and Ashland shall instruct its respective investment banking firm to (A) not consult with the other investment banking firm with respect to its view as to the Competitive Business Purchase Price prior to the time that both investment banking firms have delivered their respective opinions to Marathon and Ashland, as applicable, (B) deliver their respective 14.04 Appraisal Reports, together with their oral and written opinions as to the Competitive Business Purchase Price (the ""), within 15 days after the 14.04 Appraisal Process Commencement Date, and (C) deliver a copy of its written opinion and its 14.04 Appraisal Report to the Company, the other party and the other party's investment banking firm at the time it delivers its oral and written opinion to Marathon or Ashland, as applicable.
14.04 Initial Opinion Values
 
(iv) If the 14.04 Initial Opinion Values differ and the lesser 14.04 Initial Opinion Value equals or exceeds 90% of the greater 14.04 Initial Opinion Value, the Competitive Business Purchase Price shall be deemed to be an amount equal to (A) the sum of the 14.04 Initial Opinion Values divided by (B) two.
 
(v) If the 14.04 Initial Opinion Values differ and the lesser 14.04 Initial Opinion Value is less than 90% of the greater 14.04 Initial Opinion Value then:
 
(A) within two Business Days after both investment banking firms have delivered their respective opinions to Marathon or Ashland, as applicable, each investment banking firm shall, at a single meeting at which Marathon, Ashland, the Company and the other investment banking firm are present, make a presentation with respect to its 14.04 Initial Opinion Value. At such presentation, Marathon, Ashland, the Company and the other
 
investment banking firm shall be entitled to ask questions as to the basis for and the calculation of such investment banking firm's 14.04 Initial Opinion Value; and
 
(B) Marathon and Ashland shall, within five Business Days after the date Marathon and Ashland receive the 14.04 Initial Opinion Values (such fifth Business Day being referred to herein as the ""), jointly select a third nationally recognized investment banking firm to (1) prepare a 14.04 Appraisal Report and (2) deliver an oral and written opinion addressed to Marathon and Ashland as to the Competitive Business Purchase Price. The fees and expenses of such third investment banking firm shall be paid 50% by Marathon and 50% by Ashland. Such third investment banking firm shall not be provided with the 14.04 Initial Opinion Values and shall not consult with the initial investment banking firms with respect thereto. During such five-Business Day period, Marathon and Ashland shall negotiate in good faith to independently reach an agreement as to the Competitive Business Purchase Price. If Marathon and Ashland reach such an agreement, then the Competitive Business Purchase Price shall be deemed to be the amount so agreed upon by Marathon and Ashland. If Marathon and Ashland are unable to reach such an agreement, then Marathon and Ashland shall instruct such third investment banking firm to deliver its 14.04 Appraisal Report, together with its oral and written opinion as to the Competitive Business Purchase Price (the ""), within 15 days after the 14.04 Subsequent Appraisal Process Commencement Date. The Competitive Business Purchase Price in such circumstances shall be deemed to be an amount equal to (I) the sum of (x) the 14.04 Third Opinion Value plus (y) whichever of the two 14.04 Initial Opinion Values is closer to the 14.04 Third Opinion Value (or, if the 14.04 Third Opinion Value is exactly halfway between the two 14.04 Initial Opinion Values, the 14.04 Third Opinion Value), divided by (II) two.
14.04 Subsequent Appraisal Process Commencement Date
14.04 Third Opinion Value
 
 
 
SECTION 15.01. (a) Except as expressly permitted by this Section 15.01, neither Marathon nor USX shall assign all or any part of its rights and obligations hereunder to any person without first obtaining the written approval of each of the other parties hereto, which approval may be granted or withheld in such parties' sole discretion.
Survival and Assignment re: Marathon and USX.
General.
 
(b) In the event that Marathon or USX shall be a party to a merger, consolidation or other similar business combination transaction with a third party or sell all or substantially all its assets to a third party, Marathon's or USX's, as the case may be, rights and obligations hereunder shall be assignable to such third party in connection with such transaction; , , that Marathon or USX shall not be permitted to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to such third party as aforesaid if the purpose or intent of such merger, consolidation, similar business combination transaction or sale is to circumvent or avoid the application of Sections 10.01(c) and 10.04 of the LLC Agreement to the related Transfer of Marathon's Membership Interests to such third party.
Merger or Sale of Substantially All of Marathon's or USX's Assets.
provided
however
 
(c) In the event that Marathon Transfers all of its Membership Interests to a third party pursuant to Section 10.01(c) of the LLC Agreement, then:
Transfer of Marathon's Membership Interests Pursuant to Section 10.01(c) of the LLC Agreement.
 
(i) such third party shall at the time of such Transfer become subject to all of Marathon's and USX's respective obligations hereunder and shall succeed to all of Marathon's and USX's respective rights hereunder;
 
(ii) such third party and its ultimate parent, if any, shall each become subject to the same standstill obligations that apply to Marathon and USX under Section 12.01, which standstill provisions shall remain in effect with respect to such third party and its ultimate parent, if any, through the six-month
 
anniversary of the earlier to occur of (a) the date that Ashland and its Affiliates do not own any Membership Interests and (b) the date that such third party and its Affiliates do not own any Membership Interests;
 
(iii) such third party and its ultimate parent, if any, shall each become subject to the same non- compete covenants that apply to Marathon and USX under Article XIV; and
 
(iv) Marathon and USX shall each be relieved of all of its obligations hereunder other than (1) any default hereunder by Marathon or USX or any of their respective Affiliates that occurred prior to the time of such Transfer; (2) Marathon's and USX's respective obligations under Section 12.01 (which are in addition to, and not in lieu of such third party's obligations under Section 12.01); (3) Marathon's and USX's respective obligations under Article X with respect to any Securities that Marathon and/or USX issued to Ashland pursuant to Section 4.02(c) prior to such Transfer or that Marathon and/or USX intends to issue to Ashland pursuant to Section 4.02(c) after such Transfer; and (4) Marathon's and USX's respective obligations under Article XIV (which shall survive for six months from the date of such Transfer and which are in addition to, and not in lieu of such third party's obligations under Article XIV).
 
(d) In the event of an assignment by Marathon of its rights and obligations under this Agreement to a third party pursuant to this Section 15.01, Marathon's rights and obligations related to its Marathon Call Right and its Special Termination Right shall also be assigned to such third party; , that such third party shall not be permitted to exercise the Marathon Call Right until the third anniversary of the date of such assignment.
Assignment of Marathon's Marathon Call Right and Special Termination Right.
provided
 
SECTION 15.02. (a) Except as expressly permitted by this Section 15.02, Ashland shall not assign all or any part of its rights and obligations hereunder to any person without first obtaining the prior written approval of each
Survival and Assignment re: Ashland.
General.
 
of the other parties hereto, which approval may be granted in such parties' sole discretion.
 
(b) In the event that Ashland shall be a party to a merger, consolidation or other similar business combination transaction with a third party or sell all or substantially all of its assets to a third party, Ashland's rights and obligations hereunder shall be assignable to such third party in connection with such transaction; , , that Ashland shall not be permitted to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to such third party as aforesaid if the purpose or intent of such merger, consolidation, similar business combination transaction or sale is to circumvent or avoid the application of Sections 10.01(c) and 10.04 of the LLC Agreement to the related Transfer of Ashland's Membership Interests to such third party.
Merger or Sale of Substantially all of Ashland's Assets.
provided
however
 
(c) In the event that Ashland Transfers all of its Membership Interests to a third party pursuant to Section 10.01(c) of the LLC Agreement, then:
Transfer of Membership Interests Pursuant to Section 10.01(c) of the LLC Agreement.
 
(i) such third party shall at the time of such Transfer become subject to all of Ashland's obligations hereunder and shall succeed to all of Ashland's rights hereunder;
 
(ii) such third party and its ultimate parent, if any, shall each become subject to the same standstill obligations that apply to Ashland under Section 12.02, which standstill provisions shall remain in effect with respect to such third party and its ultimate parent, if any, through the later to occur of (i) the six-month anniversary of the earlier to occur of (A) the date that Marathon and its Affiliates do not own any Membership Interests and (B) the date that such third party and its Affiliates do not own any Membership Interests and (ii) in the event that such third party or its Affiliates acquires USX Voting Securities pursuant to the Closing of the Ashland Put Right, the date on which such third party and its Affiliates do not own more than 5% of the then outstanding USX Voting Securities;
 
(iii) such third party and its ultimate parent, if any, shall each become subject to the same non-compete covenants that apply to Ashland under Article XIV;
 
(iv) Ashland shall be relieved of all of its obligations hereunder other than (1) any default hereunder by Ashland or any of its Affiliates that occurred prior to the time of such Transfer; (2) Ashland's obligations under Section 12.02 (which are in addition to, and not in lieu of such third party's obligations under Section 12.02); and (3) Ashland's obligations under Article XIV (which shall survive for six months from the date of such Transfer and which are in addition to, and not in lieu of such third party's obligations under Article XIV); and
 
(v) Ashland shall retain all of its rights under Article X with respect to any Securities that are issued to Ashland pursuant to Section 4.02(c) prior to or after the date of such Transfer (which rights shall be in addition to and not in lieu of the rights that the third party of Ashland's Membership Interests is entitled to under Article X).
 
(d) In the event of an assignment by Ashland of its rights and obligations under this Agreement to a third party pursuant to this Section 15.02, Ashland's rights and obligations related to its Ashland Put Right and its Special Termination Right shall also be assigned to such third party; that such third party shall not be permitted to exercise the Ashland Put Right until the third anniversary of the date of such assignment.
Assignment of Ashland's Ashland Put Right and Special Termination Right.
provided
 
SECTION 15.03. The Company shall not be permitted to assign its rights and obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each of the other parties hereto, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Survival and Assignment re: the Company.
 
SECTION 15.04. Any assignment of Marathon's, USX's, Ashland's or the Company's respective rights and obligations hereunder pursuant to this Article XV shall be pursuant to an assignment and assumption agreement by and among the third party, such third party's ultimate parent, if any, and each
Assignment and Assumption Agreements.
 
of the parties hereto, in such form as the parties hereto shall reasonably approve.
 
SECTION 15.05. Any attempted assignment in violation of this Article XV shall be void and without legal effect.
Consequences of Unpermitted Assignments.
 
 
 
SECTION 16.01. All controversies, claims or disputes that arise out of or relate to the Agreement or the construction, interpretation, performance, breach, termination, enforceability or validity of the Agreement, or the commercial economic or other relationship of the parties thereto, whether such claim is based on rights, privileges or interests recognized by or based upon statute, contract, tort, common law or otherwise and whether such claim existed prior to or arises on or after the date of the Agreement (a ") shall be resolved in accordance with the provisions of this Article XVI. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Article XVI, nothing in this Article XVI shall limit the ability of the directors and officers of a party hereto from communicating directly with the directors and officers of any other party hereto.
General.
Dispute"
 
SECTION 16.02. A party hereto may give another party hereto written notice (a ") of any Dispute which has not been resolved in the normal course of business. Within fifteen Business Days after delivery of the Dispute Notice, the receiving party shall submit to the other party a written response (the "). The Dispute Notice and the Response shall each include a statement setting forth the position of the party giving such notice, a summary of the arguments supporting such position and, if applicable, the relief sought.
Dispute Notice and Response.
Dispute Notice"
Response"
 
SECTION 16.03. (a) If a Dispute Notice is delivered prior to the Closing, within 10 Business Days after delivery of the Response provided for in Section 16.02, the Chief Executive Officer (in the case of Ashland and USX) and/or the President (in the case of Marathon and the Company) of
Negotiation Between Chief Executive Officers.
 
each party to such Dispute shall meet or communicate by telephone at a mutually acceptable time and place, and thereafter as often as they reasonably deem necessary, and shall negotiate in good faith to attempt to resolve the Dispute that is the subject of such Dispute Notice. If such Dispute has not been resolved within 20 Business Days after the delivery of the Response as provided for in Section 16.02, then each party shall be permitted to take such actions at law or in equity as it is otherwise permitted to take or as may be available under Applicable Law.
 
(b) All negotiations between the Chief Executive Officer(s) and/or the President(s) pursuant to this Section 16.03 shall be treated as compromise and settlement negotiations. Nothing said or disclosed, nor any document produced, in the course of such negotiations which is not otherwise independently discoverable shall be offered or received as evidence or used for impeachment or for any other purpose in any current or future arbitration or litigation.
 
SECTION 16.04. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, any party hereto may at any time seek from any court of the United States located in the State of Delaware or from any Delaware state court, any interim, provisional or injunctive relief that may be necessary to protect the rights or property of such party or maintain the status quo before, during or after the pendency of the negotiation process or any other proceeding contemplated by Section 16.03.
Right to Equitable Relief Preserved.
 
 
 
SECTION 17.01. Any notice, consent or approval to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given if delivered: (i) personally by a reputable courier service that requires a signature upon delivery; (ii) by mailing the same via registered or certified first-class mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested; or (iii) by telecopying the same with receipt confirmation (followed by a first-class mailing of the same) to the intended recipient. Any such writing will be deemed to have been given: (a) as of the date of
Notices.
 
personal delivery via courier as described above; (b) as of the third calendar day after depositing the same into the custody of the postal service as evidenced by the date-stamped receipt issued upon deposit of the same into the mails as described above; and (c) as of the date and time electronically transmitted in the case of telecopy delivery as described above, in each case addressed to the intended party at the address set forth below:
 
To Marathon:
 
Marathon Oil Company
5555 San Felipe
P.O. Box 3128
Houston, TX 77056
 
To USX:
 
USX Corporation
600 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, PA, 15219-4776
 
To Ashland:
 
Ashland Inc.
1000 Ashland Drive
Russell, KY 41169
 
To the Company:
 
Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC
539 South Main Street
Findlay, Ohio 45840
 
Any party may designate different addresses or telecopy numbers by notice to the other parties.
 
SECTION 17.02. This Agreement (including the Schedules and Appendices attached hereto), together with the other Transaction Documents (including the exhibits, schedules and appendices thereto) and certain other agreements executed contemporaneously with the Master Formation Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement of the parties hereto and supersedes any prior understandings, agreements, or representations by or among the parties hereto, written or oral, to the extent they relate in any way to the subject matter hereof.
Merger and Entire Agreement.
 
SECTION 17.03. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the parties hereto and their respective successors, legal representatives and permitted assigns.
Parties in Interest.
 
SECTION 17.04. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
 
SECTION 17.05. This Agreement may not be amended except in a written instrument signed by each of the parties hereto and expressly stating it is an amendment to this Agreement. Any failure or delay on the part of any party hereto in exercising any power or right hereunder shall not operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power hereunder or otherwise available at law or in equity.
Amendment; Waiver.
 
SECTION 17.06. If any term, provision, covenant, or restriction of this Agreement or the application thereof to any Person or circumstance, at any time or to any extent, is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement (or the application of such provision in other jurisdictions or to Persons or circumstances other than those to which it was held invalid or unenforceable) shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated, and to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, any such term, provision, covenant or
Severability.
 
restriction shall be restricted in applicability or reformed to the minimum extent required for such to be enforceable. This provision shall be interpreted and enforced to give effect to the original written intent of the parties hereto prior to the determination of such invalidity or unenforceability.
 
SECTION 17.07. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW THEREOF. ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY WITH RESPECT TO ANY CLAIM OR PROCEEDING RELATED TO OR ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT, OR ANY TRANSACTION OR CONDUCT IN CONNECTION HEREWITH, IS WAIVED.
GOVERNING LAW.
 
SECTION 17.08. The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the parties hereto shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement in the Delaware Chancery Court; that if the Delaware Chancery Court does not have jurisdiction with respect to such matter, the parties hereto shall be entitled to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement in any court of the United States located in the State of Delaware or in Delaware state court, this being in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity. In addition, each of the parties hereto (i) consents to submit itself to the personal jurisdiction of the Delaware Chancery Court in the event that any dispute arises out of this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; that if the Delaware Chancery Court does not have jurisdiction with respect to any such dispute, such party consents to submit itself to the personal jurisdiction of any Federal court located in the State of Delaware or any Delaware state court, (ii) agrees to appoint and maintain an agent in the State of Delaware for service of legal process, (iii) agrees that it will not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court, (iv) agrees that it will not plead or claim in any such court that any action relating to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum and (v) agrees that it will not initiate
Enforcement.
provided
provided
 
any action relating to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in any court other than (1) the Delaware Chancery Court, or (2) if the Delaware Chancery Court does not have jurisdiction with respect to such action, a Federal court sitting in the State of Delaware or a Delaware state court.
 
SECTION 17.09. The table of contents and section headings of this Agreement and titles given to Schedules and Appendices to this Agreement are for reference purposes only and are to be given no effect in the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
Table of Contents, Headings and Titles.
 
SECTION 17.10. As used in this Agreement, the words "", "" and "" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular paragraph, subparagraph, section, subsection or other subdivision. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun used in this Agreement shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the singular form of nouns, pronouns and verbs shall include the plural and vice versa. Each party hereto agrees that any rule of construction to the effect that any ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party shall not be employed in the interpretation or construction of this Agreement or any Transaction Document.
Use of Certain Terms; Rules of Construction.
herein
hereof
hereunder
 
SECTION 17.11. Notwithstanding any deadline for payment, performance, notice or election under this Agreement, if such deadline falls on a date that is not a Business Day, then the deadline for such payment, performance, notice or election will be extended to the next succeeding Business Day.
Holidays.
 
SECTION 17.12. Nothing herein expressed or implied is intended or shall be construed to confer upon or give any person and their respective successors, legal representatives and permitted assigns any rights, remedies or basis for reliance upon, under or by reason of this Agreement.
Third Parties.
 
SECTION 17.13. Except where and to the extent that a contrary intention otherwise appears, where any party hereto undertakes to cause its Affiliates to take or abstain from taking any action, such
Liability for Affiliates.
 
undertaking shall mean (i) in the case of an Affiliate that is controlled by such party, that such party shall cause such Affiliate to take or abstain from taking such action and (ii) in the case of an Affiliate that controls or is under common control with such party, that such party shall use its commercially reasonable best efforts to cause such Affiliates to take or abstain from taking such action; , , that such party shall not be required to violate, or cause any director of an Affiliate to violate, any fiduciary duty to minority shareholders of such Affiliate.
provided
however
 
SECTION 17.14. No representation or warranty hereunder shall be deemed to be inaccurate if the actual situation is disclosed pursuant to another representation or warranty herein or in a schedule to a Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement Disclosure Letter or in any other Transaction Document or any exhibit, schedule or appendix thereto, whether or not an explicit cross-reference appears. Neither the specification of any dollar amount in any representation, warranty or covenant contained in this Agreement nor the inclusion of any specific item in a schedule to a Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement Disclosure Letter is intended to imply that such amount, or higher or lower amounts, or the item so included or other items, are or are not material, and neither party shall use the fact of the setting forth of any such amount or the inclusion of any such item in any dispute or controversy involving the parties as to whether any obligation, item or matter not described herein or included in a schedule to a Put/Call,
Schedules.
 
Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement Disclosure Letter is or is not material for purposes of this Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed by the parties as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
 
 
The following terms shall have the following meanings wherever they appear in a Transaction Document (as hereinafter defined) and such meanings shall be equally applicable to both the singular and the plural forms of the terms herein defined. References herein to an agreement, instrument or document shall, unless otherwise expressly provided, include such agreement, instrument or document as the same may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with its terms and as permitted by the Transaction Documents and shall include the permitted successors to, and assigns of, any Person.
 
"" shall mean the Addendum and Joinder to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit W to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Addendum and Joinder
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Person in question; provided, however, that unless otherwise indicated, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries shall be considered an Affiliate of Marathon, USX or Ashland.
Affiliate
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.4(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Affiliated Ashland Group
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Affiliated Marathon Group
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.02 of the LLC Agreement.
Applicable GAAP
 
"" shall mean any applicable statute, law, regulation, ordinance, rule, judgment, rule of law, order, decree, permit, approval, concession, grant, franchise, license, agreement, requirement, or other governmental restriction or any similar form of decision of, or any provision or condition of any permit, license or other operating authorization issued under any of the foregoing by, or any determination by any Governmental Authority having or asserting jurisdiction over the matter or matters in question, whether now or hereafter in effect and in each case as amended (including without limitation, all of the terms and provisions of the common law of such Governmental Authority), as interpreted and enforced at the time in question.
Applicable Law
 
"" shall mean Ashland Inc., a Kentucky corporation, or its successor.
Ashland
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(g) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Asset Leases
 
"" shall mean the letter from Ashland to Marathon and the Company dated the date of and relating to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Assumed Liabilities
 
"" shall mean every Employee Benefit Plan sponsored, maintained, or contributed to, or required to be contributed to, by Ashland, or any ERISA Affiliate of Ashland, for the benefit of current or former employees of Ashland's Business in the United States.
Ashland Benefit Plan
 
"" shall mean the Ashland Chemical Product Sale Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit P to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Chemical Product Sale Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Commercial Affiliates
 
"" shall mean any consent decrees, consent orders, agreed orders, notices of violation, judgments, decrees or similar orders or obligations entered into prior to Closing or relating to any investigations of which Ashland had received notice from the appropriate Governmental Authority prior to Closing.
Ashland Consent Decrees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(o) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Contracts
 
"" shall mean the Ashland Sublease Agreements in substantially the forms attached as Exhibit L to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Designated Sublease Agreements
 
"" shall mean any Environmental Contamination associated with, or discovered as part of, Ashland's 1998 underground storage tank upgrade program at the Ashland Service Stations set forth on Schedule 9.1(c) to the Ashland Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter under the heading "Ashland Designated UST Environmental Contamination."
Ashland Designated UST Environmental Contamination
 
"" shall mean any Environmental Loss to the extent arising out of, based on, or occurring in connection with Ashland's Business prior to Closing or related to the ownership, use, operation or maintenance of, or related to the reporting practices associated with, the Ashland Transferred Assets prior to Closing, whether or not Asserted prior to Closing.
Ashland Environmental Loss
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Excluded Assets
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.4 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Excluded Liabilities
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(i) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Excluded Taxes
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.6 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Financial Statements
 
"" shall mean the General Assignment and Assumption Agreement in substantially the form attached as of Exhibit I to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland General Assignment and Assumption Agreement
 
"" shall mean Ashland and its Affiliates and their respective employees, officers and directors.
Ashland Indemnified Persons
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.8 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Information Package
 
"" shall mean the Intellectual Property License Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit J-1 to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Intellectual Property License Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(b) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Joint Contracts
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Joint Permits
 
"" shall mean the Ashland Joint Services Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit Q to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Joint Services Agreement
 
"" shall mean the Lease Agreements in substantially the form attached as Exhibit K to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Lease Agreements
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Ashland LOOP/LOCAP Interest
 
"" shall mean the letter from Ashland to Marathon dated the date of and relating to the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Master Formation Agreement Disclosure Letter
 
" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.9 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Material Contracts"
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.3 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Material Permits
 
"" shall mean the audited balance sheet of Ashland appearing in the Ashland Financial Statements.
Ashland 1997 Balance Sheet
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Ashland Environmental Loss, Remediation Activities that either were commenced prior to Closing or that relate to any investigation of which Ashland had received notice from the appropriate Governmental Authority prior to Closing.
Ashland Ongoing Remediation
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(h) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Other Real Property Rights
 
"" shall mean the Ashland Sublease Agreements in substantially the forms attached as Exhibit M to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Other Sublease Agreements
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5(c)(i) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Pension Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(p) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Permits
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(j) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Personal Property Leases
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(i) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Personal Property Owned
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Pipelines
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.10(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Proprietary Rights
 
"" shall mean the Quitclaim Deeds substantially in the forms attached as Exhibit H to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Quitclaim Deeds
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(f) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Real Property Leased
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(f) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Real Property Leases
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(e) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Real Property Owned
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(s) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Records
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Refineries
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Restricted Asset
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Restricted Liability
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Restriction
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.7(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Retirement Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(d) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Service Stations
 
"" shall mean those portions of shut down refineries of Ashland that are operating as terminals and are being leased to the Company pursuant to the Ashland Lease Agreements.
Ashland Shut-Down Refinery Assets
 
"" shall mean the Ashland Designated Sublease Agreements and the Ashland Other Sublease Agreements.
Ashland Sublease Agreements
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Subsidiaries
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.10 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Subsidiaries Interests
 
"" shall mean the Ashland Supplier Cooperation Agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit S to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Supplier Cooperation Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(b) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Terminals
 
"" shall mean the Ashland Trademark License Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit J-2 to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Trademark License Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Transferred Assets
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Transferred Employees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Transferring Affiliates
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.11 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Transferring Affiliate Interests
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Ashland Transferring Entities
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.14 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland VEBA
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(g) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland Working Capital Shortfall
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland's Adjusted Capital Expenditures
 
"" shall mean that portion of Ashland's business, tangible assets, intangible assets, rights, contracts, permits, licenses and other rights which comprise Ashland's petroleum supply, refining, marketing and transportation business (excluding the Ashland Excluded Assets and Ashland Excluded Liabilities).
Ashland's Business
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Ashland's Target Capital Expenditures
 
"" shall mean with respect to an Environmental Loss, that the Indemnified Party has provided written notice to the Indemnifying Party either of (i) its receipt of written notice, including letters of inquiry, requests for information or other investigatory inquiries, from a Governmental Authority relating to such Environmental Loss or (ii) the existence of facts, conditions or circumstances from which the Indemnified Party has reasonably concluded, based on an opinion of
Asserted
 
counsel delivered at any time after the Closing Date to such Indemnified Party, that an Environmental Loss may result.
 
"" shall mean the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement dated as of December 12, 1997, among Marathon, Ashland and the Company, including any appendices and exhibits to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement and the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letters.
Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter and the Ashland Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter.
Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letters
 
"" shall mean, with respect to Marathon and Ashland, the Marathon Assumed Liabilities and the Ashland Assumed Liabilities, respectively.
Assumed Liabilities
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.3(k) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Bareboat Charter
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.02(a) of the LLC Agreement.
Board of Managers
 
"" shall mean, with respect to Marathon and Ashland, Marathon's Business and Ashland's Business, respectively, and with respect to the Company, the Company's Business.
Business
 
"" shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday on which national banks in New York City, New York are closed for business.
Business Day
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(e) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Capital Expenditure Accounting Firm
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Capital Expenditure Statement
 
"" shall mean any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as a capital lease on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease
 
"" shall mean, with respect to Marathon's Business or Ashland's Business, as the case may be, (i) a Loss, whether or not insured, as a result of any fire, flood, accident, explosion, strike, labor disturbance, riot, act of God or public enemy or other calamity or casualty, unless either such Loss shall have been substantially cured, repaired or restored by such party prior to the Closing Date, or such party shall have otherwise substantially compensated the Company for such Loss, or (ii) that proceedings have been instituted or threatened seeking the condemnation or other taking of a portion of such business in the future.
Casualty or Condemnation Loss
 
"" shall mean the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended.
CERCLA
 
"" shall mean any existing or threatened future claim, demand, suit, action, investigation, proceeding, governmental action or cause of action of any kind or character (in each case, whether civil, criminal, investigative or administrative), known or unknown, under any theory, including those based on theories of contract, tort, statutory liability, strict liability, employer liability, premises liability, products liability, breach of warranty or malpractice.
Claim
 
"" shall mean a committee, consisting of no more than six and no fewer than four qualified representatives, with each of Marathon and Ashland choosing 50% of the representatives, duly formed and constituted as soon as practicable after the Closing Date to consider any matter referred to it pursuant to Section 9.8(c)(iii) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Claims Review Committee
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Closing
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Closing Date
 
"" shall mean the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended, and Sections 601 through 608 of ERISA.
COBRA
 
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
"" shall mean the Shared Services Agreement, the Marathon Pipe Line Operating Agreement, the Crude Oil and NGL Supply Agreement, the Valvoline Lube Oil Supply Agreement, the Ashland Chemical Product Sale Agreement, the Ashland Joint Services Agreement, the Ashland Supplier Cooperation Agreement and the Revolving Credit Agreement.
Commercial Documents
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Commission
 
"" shall mean Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
Company
 
"" shall mean the Company and its Affiliates and their respective employees, officers and directors.
Company Indemnified Persons
 
"" shall mean Marathon's Business and Ashland's Business to be conducted by the Company and its subsidiaries after the Closing.
Company's Business
 
"" shall mean the Confidentiality Agreement dated December 13, 1996 between Marathon and Ashland.
Confidentiality Agreement
 
"" shall mean contracts, leases, licenses, indentures, agreements, purchase orders, commitments and all other legally binding arrangements, whether oral or written, express or implied.
Contracts
 
"" shall mean the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through ownership of voting securities or general partnership or managing member interests, by contract or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a Person shall be deemed to control any other Person in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the ownership interests.
Control
 
"" shall mean the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement, the Marathon Quitclaim Deeds, the Ashland Quitclaim Deeds, the Marathon General Assignment and Assumption Agreement, the Ashland General Assignment and Assumption Agreement, the Marathon Intellectual Property License Agreement, the Ashland Intellectual Property License Agreement, the Marathon Trademark License Agreement, the Ashland Trademark License Agreement, the Marathon Lease Agreements, the Ashland Lease Agreements, the Marathon Sublease Agreements and the Ashland Sublease Agreements and related conveyancing documents pursuant to which Transferred Assets are transferred to the Company and its subsidiaries.
Conveyance Documents
 
"" shall mean the Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids Supply Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit R to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Crude Oil and NGL Supply Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Cumene Project
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Cumene Project 1997 Budget Amount
 
"" shall mean the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, as in effect and amended from time to time, or any successor statute.
Delaware Act
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Demand Registration
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Confidentiality Agreement.
Designated Persons
 
"" shall mean the Master Formation Agreement Disclosure Letters, the Parent Agreement Disclosure Letter, the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letters and the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement Disclosure Letter.
Disclosure Letters
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Appendix B to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement and Appendix B to the Master Formation Agreement.
Dispute
 
"" shall mean the United States Department of Justice.
DOJ
 
"" shall mean all pension, retirement, profit-sharing, medical, vacation, hospitalization, vision, dental, health, life, severance or termination of employment plans, including any "employee benefit plan" as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA.
Employee Benefit Plans
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1(b) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Employer Company
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Employment Transfer Date
 
"" shall mean Emro Marketing Company.
Emro
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.11 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Emro Savings Plan
 
"" shall mean (a) any release, discharge or disposal of any Hazardous Substance into or onto groundwater, surface water or soil at, from, to or under any of the Marathon Real Property Owned or Marathon Real Property Leased or any of the Ashland Real Property Owned or Ashland Real Property Leased or (b) any transportation, treatment, recycling, storage, discharge or disposal by, at or to any facility owned or operated by another party, including any facility leased by either Marathon or Ashland or any of their respective Affiliates or predecessors or the Company or any of its Affiliates of any Hazardous Substance that (i) was shipped from or disposed of on, at or under any of the properties or facilities that are or have been owned, operated or used by either Marathon or Ashland or any of their respective Affiliates or predecessors or the Company or its Affiliates or (ii) arose from the operations of either Marathon or Ashland or any of their respective Affiliates or predecessors or the Company or its Affiliates.
Environmental Contamination
 
"" shall mean any Applicable Law relating to (a) the protection of (i) the environment or (ii) the public welfare from actual or potential exposure (or the effects of exposure) to any actual or potential release, discharge, disposal or emission (whether past or present) of any Hazardous Substance or (b) the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, labeling, storage, disposal, transport or handling of any Hazardous Substance.
Environmental Law
 
"" shall mean any Loss arising out of any Environmental Contamination or any Environmental Violation or a combination of both. Environmental Loss specifically includes all costs incurred to install new improvements or make repairs or alterations to prevent the continuation of any Environmental Contamination or to remedy noncompliance with any Environmental Law and, in the case of any Special Environmental Projects, shall include the reasonable hourly costs of Company facility personnel to the extent dedicated to Remediation Activities or other activity directly related to such Special Environmental Projects. Environmental Loss specifically does not include any Claim brought by a Person other than a Governmental Authority seeking damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, penalties, compensation or injunctive relief resulting from the existence or release of, or exposure to, Hazardous Substances except where such Claim is brought as a citizen's suit in which no monetary damages are sought for the account of such Person
Environmental Loss
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Loss under CERCLA or any comparable state Environmental Law that arises out of, is based on or is in connection with the disposal by Marathon or Ashland of Hazardous Substances at a location other than a property included in the Transferred Assets shall be treated as a Marathon Excluded Liability or an Ashland Excluded Liability, as the case may be. All Environmental Losses arising from the same event, condition or set of circumstances at a particular facility shall be considered as an individual Environmental Loss for purposes of determining the applicability of the Individual Threshold Amount.
 
"" shall mean any notice of violation, directive, instruction, judgment, order or similar mandate from any Governmental Authority directing, ordering or requiring a correction of any Environmental Contamination or Environmental Violation, or any related Remediation Activities.
Environmental Requirement
 
"" shall mean any violation of any Environmental Law, excluding, however, any such violation related to Environmental Contamination.
Environmental Violation
 
"" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
 
"" shall mean with respect to any Person any trade or business, whether or not incorporated, which together with such Person would be deemed a "single employer" within the meaning of Section 414(b), (c) or (m) of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Exchange Act
 
"" shall mean (a) an Environmental Loss arising from an Environmental Violation or Environmental Contamination in which (i) the amount in controversy could reasonably be expected to exceed $15,000,000; (ii) the Company has Asserted a Claim for indemnity under either Section 9.1(c) or Section 9.2(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement; and (iii) the Indemnifying Party has a prior course of dealing with the Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over the matter or (b) a facility-wide application of the corrective action requirements of Sections 3004(u) and (v) of RCRA to a refinery included in the Transferred Assets.
Extraordinary Environmental Loss
 
"" shall mean the three-month period ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each Fiscal Year.
Fiscal Quarter
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.05 of the LLC Agreement.
Fiscal Year
 
"" shall mean the United States Federal Trade Commission.
FTC
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Former Marathon Plan Participants
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.7(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Freedom Employees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.7(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Freedom Pension Plan
 
"" shall mean (a) with respect to Marathon's Business, an effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of Marathon's Business which results in a Loss of $80,000,000 or more, or, if such Loss is not susceptible to being measured in monetary terms, is otherwise fundamentally adverse to Marathon's Business, and in any event includes a shutdown by a Governmental Authority of any Marathon Refinery or Major Unit thereof contained within the Marathon Transferred Assets, (b) with respect to Ashland's Business, an effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of Ashland's Business which results in a Loss of $50,000,000 or more, or, if such Loss is not susceptible to being measured in monetary terms, is otherwise fundamentally adverse to Ashland's Business, and in any event includes a shutdown by a Governmental Authority of any Ashland Refinery or Major Unit thereof contained within the Ashland Transferred Assets, and (c) with respect to the Company's Business, an effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of the Company's Business which results, individually or in the aggregate, in a Loss of $65,000,000 or more, or, if such Loss is not susceptible to being measured in monetary terms, is otherwise fundamentally adverse to the Company's Business, and in any event includes a shutdown by a Governmental Authority of any Marathon Refinery or Ashland Refinery or Major Unit thereof contained within either the Marathon Transferred Assets or the Ashland Transferred Assets; provided, however, that any such effect relating to or resulting from any change in the price of petroleum or petroleum byproducts, general economic conditions or local, regional, national or international industry conditions (including changes in financial or market conditions) shall be deemed not to constitute a Fundamental Adverse Effect.
Fundamental Adverse Effect
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the LLC Agreement.
Fuelgas Interest
 
"" shall mean United States generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis.
GAAP
 
"" shall mean any permit, license, franchise, approval, consent, waiver, certification, qualification or other authorization issued, granted, given or otherwise made available by or under the authority of any Governmental Authority or pursuant to any Applicable Law.
Governmental Approval
 
"" shall mean any federal, state, local or foreign government or any provincial, departmental or other political subdivision thereof, or any entity, body or authority exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory, administrative or other governmental functions or any court, department, commission, board, bureau, agency, instrumentality or administrative body of any of the foregoing.
Governmental Authority
 
"" by any Person shall mean any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person or in any manner, providing for the payment of any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person or otherwise protecting the holder of such Indebtedness or other obligation against loss (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, by obtaining letters of credit, by agreement to keep-well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services, or to take-or-pay or otherwise), provided that the term "Guarantee" shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
 
"" shall mean, collectively, any substance which is identified and regulated (or the cleanup of which can be required) under any Environmental Law, and, in addition, any substance which requires special handling, storage or disposal procedures or whose use, handling, storage or disposal of which is in any way regulated, whether now or in the future, in any case under any Applicable Law for the protection of health, safety and the environment. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Hazardous Substances shall include (a) "hazardous wastes," "hazardous substances," "toxic substances," "pollutants," or "contaminants" or other similar identified designations in, or otherwise subject to regulation under, any Environmental Law; and (b) petroleum, refined petroleum products and fractions or by-products thereof, in each case whether in their virgin, used or waste state.
Hazardous Substances
 
"" shall mean the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996.
HIPAA
 
"" shall mean the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976.
HSR Act
 
"" shall mean (a) petty cash, (b) refining, retail outlets and transportation ("RMT") working funds, (c) depository account balances for the RMT business (automated clearinghouse transmissions submitted on the most recent banking day in the applicable jurisdiction immediately preceding the Closing Date or later will be for the account of the Company and its subsidiaries), (d) funds in transit relating to retail outlet deposits, and (e) uncollected funds in lockboxes and lockbox bank accounts for the RMT business (automated clearinghouse transmissions submitted on the most recent banking day in the applicable jurisdiction immediately preceding the Closing Date or later will be for the account of the Company and its subsidiaries).
Incidental Cash
 
"" of any person shall mean, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such person for borrowed money or with respect to deposits or advances of any kind, (b) all obligations of such person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such person upon which interest charges are customarily paid, (d) all obligations of such person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property or assets purchased by such person, (e) all obligations of such person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding trade accounts payable, trade advertising and accrued obligations), (f) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such person, whether or not the obligations secured thereby have been assumed, (g) all Guarantees by such person of Indebtedness of others, (h) all Capital Lease obligations of such person, (i) all
Indebtedness
 
obligations of such person in respect of interest rate protection agreements, foreign currency exchange agreements or other interest or exchange rate hedging arrangements and (j) all obligations of such person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and bankers' acceptances. The Indebtedness of any person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership in which such person is a general partner, other than to the extent that the instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness expressly limits the liability of such person in respect thereof.
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.6(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Indemnified Party
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.6(b) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Indemnifying Party
 
"" shall mean the Insurance Indemnity Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit T to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Indemnity Agreement
 
"" shall mean, with respect to (a) each Environmental Loss related to Environmental Contamination associated with a Marathon Refinery or an Ashland Refinery, $1,000,000, (b) all Environmental Losses related to Environmental Contamination associated with any individual retail gasoline service station included in the Transferred Assets, $100,000, (c) each Environmental Loss related to Environmental Contamination associated with a pipeline, pipeline station or pipeline-related facility (other than a pipeline terminal) included in the Transferred Assets, $100,000; provided, however, that such amount shall be reduced to zero for purposes of each of Section 9.1(c)(ii) and Section 9.2(c)(ii) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement once the aggregate amount of Environmental Losses borne by the Company under each such section with respect to Environmental Contamination associated with pipelines, pipeline stations or pipeline-related facilities (other than pipeline terminals) as a result of application of the Individual Threshold Amount equals $5,000,000, (d) each Environmental Loss related to Environmental Contamination associated with a particular terminal (including a pipeline terminal) included in the Transferred Assets, $100,000, (e) each Environmental Loss related to Environmental Contamination associated with any other property included in the Transferred Assets, $100,000 and (f) each Environmental Violation (including a series of Environmental Violations arising from the same event, condition or set of circumstances), $100,000.
Individual Threshold Amount
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.03 of the LLC Agreement.
Initial Term
 
"" shall mean patents, patent applications (filed, unfiled or being prepared), records of invention, invention disclosures, trademarks (registered or unregistered), trademark applications (filed, unfiled or being prepared), trade names, copyrights (registered or unregistered), copyright applications (filed, unfiled or being prepared), service marks (registered or unregistered), service mark registrations, service mark applications (filed, unfiled or being prepared), all together with the goodwill associated with such marks or names, trade secrets, shop and royalty rights, technology, inventions, knowhow, processes and confidential and proprietary information, including any being developed (including but not limited to designs, manufacturing data, design data, test data,
Intellectual Property
 
operational data, and formulae), whether or not recorded in tangible form through drawings, software, reports, manuals or other tangible expressions, whether or not subject to statutory registration, whether foreign or domestic, and all rights to any of the foregoing.
 
"" shall mean the Joint Defense Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit N to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Joint Defense Agreement
 
"" shall mean (a) with respect to an individual, the actual knowledge of a particular fact or (b) with respect to a Person other than an individual, actual knowledge of a particular fact by an executive officer, division manager, refinery manager or terminal manager or by any individual serving in a similar capacity of such Person or individuals directly reporting to such individuals.
Knowledge
 
"" shall mean obligations, responsibilities and liabilities (whether based in common law or statute or arising under written contract or otherwise, known or unknown, fixed or contingent, real or potential, tangible or intangible, now existing or hereafter arising).
Liabilities
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, encumbrance, charge or security interest in or on such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities.
Lien
 
"" shall mean the Limited Liability Company Agreement of the Company in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A to the Master Formation Agreement.
LLC Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Loaned Employees
 
"" shall mean any loss, cost, Liability or expense, settlement, damage of any kind, judgment, obligation, charge, fee, fine, penalty, court cost and/or attorneys' and administrative fee or disbursement (at all levels, including appellate), but excluding a party's indirect corporate and administrative overhead costs.
Loss
 
"" shall mean the lowest overall obtainable cost to effect Remediation Activities or a correction of an Environmental Violation, as the case may be, taking into consideration the applicable Environmental Requirements or standards under applicable Environmental Laws, the nature and quantity of any Hazardous Substances being remediated, the location of any Environmental Contamination, the potential effect of any Environmental Contamination on health and safety, the difficulty of effecting the Remediation Activities, the expected duration of the Remediation Activities, the enforcement policies of the Governmental Authorities responsible for enforcing the applicable Environmental Requirements and Environmental Laws (subject to Section 9.8(h) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement), the reputation of the contractors available to effect the Remediation Activities and any potentially adverse effect on the operation of the Company's Business as a result of the Remediation Activities.
Lowest Remediation Cost
 
"" of a refinery shall mean a crude unit, a catalytic cracker, a reformer, a wastewater treatment plant and a desulfurization unit.
Major Unit
 
"" shall mean Marathon Oil Company, an Ohio corporation, or its successor.
Marathon
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(g) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Asset Leases
 
"" shall mean the letter from Marathon to Ashland and the Company dated the date of and relating to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Assumed Liabilities
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Audited Financial Statements
 
"" shall mean every Employee Benefit Plan sponsored, maintained, or contributed to, or required to be contributed to, by Marathon, or any ERISA Affiliate of Marathon, for the benefit of current or former employees of Marathon's Business in the United States.
Marathon Benefit Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Commercial Affiliates
 
"" shall mean any consent decrees, consent orders, agreed orders, notices of violation, judgments, decrees or similar orders or obligations entered into prior to the Closing Date or relating to any investigations of which Marathon had received notice from the appropriate Governmental Authority prior to the Closing Date.
Marathon Consent Decrees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(o) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Contracts
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Sublease Agreements in substantially the forms attached as Exhibit E to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Designated Sublease Agreements
 
"" shall mean any Environmental Contamination associated with, or discovered as part of, Marathon's 1998 underground storage tank upgrade program at the Marathon Service Stations set forth on Schedule 9.1(c) to the Marathon Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter under the heading "Marathon Designated UST Environmental Contamination."
Marathon Designated UST Environmental Contamination
 
"" shall mean any Environmental Loss to the extent arising out of, based on, or occurring in connection with Marathon's Business prior to Closing or related to the
Marathon Environmental Loss
 
ownership, use, operation or maintenance of, or related to the reporting practices associated with, the Marathon Transferred Assets prior to Closing, whether or not Asserted prior to Closing.
 
"" shall mean the amount owed for receipts by Marathon's Business of (i) Marathon and its Affiliates' equity crude oil with payment on the 20th day of the month following receipt and (ii) Marathon and its Affiliates' equity natural gas liquids with payment on the 10th day following receipt.
Marathon Equity Crude Payables
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Excluded Assets
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.4 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Excluded Liabilities
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(i) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Excluded Taxes
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Financial Statements
 
"" shall mean the General Assignment and Assumption Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon General Assignment and Assumption Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of USX dated September 1, 1996.
Marathon Group
 
"" shall mean the USX-Marathon Group Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share, of USX.
Marathon Group Stock
 
"" shall mean Marathon and its Affiliates and their respective employees, officers and directors.
Marathon Indemnified Persons
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.8 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Information Package
 
"" shall mean the Intellectual Property License Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C-1 to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Intellectual Property License Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.6(b) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Joint Contracts
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.6(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Joint Permits
 
"" shall mean the Lease Agreements in substantially the forms attached as Exhibit D to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Lease Agreements
 
"" shall mean the letter from Marathon to Ashland dated the date of and relating to the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Master Formation Agreement Disclosure Letter
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.9 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Material Contracts
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.3 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Material Permits
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Marathon Environmental Loss, Remediation Activities that either were commenced prior to Closing or relate to any investigation of which Marathon had received notice from the appropriate Governmental Authority prior to Closing.
Marathon Ongoing Remediation
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Sublease Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit F to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Other Sublease Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(h) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Other Real Property Rights
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(p) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Permits
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Pension Transfer Date
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(j) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Personal Property Leases
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(i) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Personal Property Owned
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Pipelines
 
"" shall mean Marathon Pipe Line Company.
Marathon Pipe Line
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Pipe Line Operating Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit G to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Pipe Line Operating Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.10(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Proprietary Rights
 
"" shall mean the Quitclaim Deeds in substantially the forms attached as Exhibit A to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Quitclaim Deeds
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(f) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Real Property Leases
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(f) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Real Property Leased
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(e) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Real Property Owned
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(s) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Records
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Refineries
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.6(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Restricted Asset
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.6(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Restricted Liability
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.6(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Restriction
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Retirement Plan
 
"" shall mean the unaudited balance sheet of the Marathon Group appearing in the Marathon September 30, 1997 Financial Statements.
Marathon September 30, 1997 Balance Sheet
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon September 30, 1997 Financial Statements
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(d) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Service Stations
 
"" shall mean those portions of shut down refineries of Marathon that are operating as terminals and are being leased to the Company pursuant to the Marathon Lease Agreements.
Marathon Shut-Down Refinery Assets
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Designated Sublease Agreements and the Marathon Other Sublease Agreement.
Marathon Sublease Agreements
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Subsidiaries
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.10 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Subsidiaries Interests
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Terminals
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.10 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Thrift Plan
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Trademark License Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C-2 to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Trademark License Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Transferred Assets
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1(c) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Transferred Employees
 
"" shall mean, collectively, the Marathon Real Property Owned and the Marathon Real Property Leased.
Marathon Transferred Real Property
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.11 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Transferring Affiliate Interests
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Transferring Affiliates
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 of the Master Formation Agreement.
Marathon Transferring Entities
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(g) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon Working Capital Shortfall
 
"" shall mean that portion of Marathon's business, tangible assets, intangible assets, rights, contracts, permits, licenses and other rights which comprise Marathon's petroleum supply, refining, marketing and transportation business (excluding the Marathon Excluded Assets and the Marathon Excluded Liabilities).
Marathon's Business
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Marathon's Target Capital Expenditures
 
"" shall mean the Master Formation Agreement, dated as of December 12, 1997, between Marathon and Ashland, including any appendices and exhibits to the Master Formation Agreement and the schedules to the Master Formation Agreement Disclosure Letters.
Master Formation Agreement
 
"" shall mean an effect on the business, operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, cash flows, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of Marathon's Business, Ashland's Business or the Company's Business which results in a Loss of $2,000,000 or more, or, if such Loss is not susceptible to being measured in monetary terms, is otherwise materially adverse to Marathon's Business, Ashland's Business or the Company's Business, as the case may be; provided that any such effect relating to or resulting from any change in the price of petroleum or petroleum byproducts, general economic conditions or local, regional, national or international industry conditions (including changes in financial or market conditions) shall be deemed not to constitute a Material Adverse Effect.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" shall mean Marathon and Ashland and any persons hereafter admitted as additional or substitute members of the Company pursuant to the LLC Agreement.
Members
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Member at any time, the limited liability company interest of such Member in the Company at such time, including the right of such Member to any and all benefits to which a Member may be entitled as provided in the LLC Agreement, together with the obligations of such Member to comply with all the terms and provisions of the LLC Agreement.
Membership Interest
 
"" shall mean The Bluegrass Funding, Inc. Master Lease Program and The Fayette Funding Limited Partnership Master Lease Program, collectively.
Merrill Lynch Master Lease Program
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(c) of the Master Formation Agreement.
Mutualized Formation Costs
 
"" shall mean an Environmental Loss arising from any new application after the Closing of the corrective action requirements of Section 3004(u) and (v) of RCRA.
New RCRA Environmental Loss
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Non-Retail DB Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.8 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Northwestern Refinery Pension Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(d) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Notice of Capital Expenditure Disagreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(d) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Notice of Working Capital Disagreement
 
"" shall mean Oil, Chemical & Atomic Workers International Union.
OCAW
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Offering Memorandum
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.04(a) of the LLC Agreement.
Offer Notice
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(b) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Opening Balance Sheet
 
"" shall mean the Parent Agreement, dated as of December 12, 1997, among USX, Marathon and Ashland, including any exhibit to the Parent Agreement.
Parent Agreement
 
"" shall mean the letter from USX to Ashland dated the date of and relating to the Parent Agreement.
Parent Agreement Disclosure Letter
 
"" shall mean the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
PBO
 
"" shall mean every benefit plan subject to Title IV of ERISA or the minimum funding requirements of Section 302 of ERISA.
Pension Benefit Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.01 of the LLC Agreement.
Percentage Interest
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.12 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Permian Plans
 
"" shall mean licenses, permits, registrations, approvals and franchises issued by any Governmental Authority.
Permits
 
"" shall mean (a) Liens for current taxes, assessments, governmental charges or levies not yet due; (b) workers' or unemployment compensation Liens arising in the ordinary course of business; (c) mechanic's, materialman's, supplier's, vendor's, garnishment or similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business for amounts not yet due; (d) security interests, pledges, Liens or other charges or encumbrances as may have arisen in the ordinary course of business, none of which individually or in the aggregate are material to the ownership, use or operation of the Marathon Transferred Assets or the Ashland Transferred Assets, as the case may be; (e) any state of facts which an accurate survey would show which does not materially detract from the value of or materially interfere with the use and operation of the Marathon Transferred Assets or the Ashland Transferred Assets, as the case may be; (f) any Liens, easements, rights-of-way, restrictions, rights, leases and other encumbrances affecting title thereto, whether or not of record, which do not materially detract from the value of or materially interfere with the use and operation of the Marathon Transferred Assets or the Ashland Transferred Assets, as the case may be; (g) legal highways, zoning and building laws, ordinances or regulations; (h) any liens for real estate Taxes which are not yet due and payable; and (i) except with respect to Permitted Encumbrances on the Marathon Refineries or the Ashland Refineries, Liens, if any, that do not have or would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Marathon's Business or Ashland's Business, as the case may be.
Permitted Encumbrances
 
"" or "" shall mean any natural person, trust, estate, unincorporated organization, firm, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, joint stock company, limited liability company or Governmental Authority, whether acting in an individual, fiduciary or other capacity.
Person
person
 
"" shall mean machinery and equipment, including tanks, pumps and other containers; furniture and fixtures; tools; leasehold improvements; vessels, barges and other marine transportation equipment; railcars, trucks and automobiles; computing and telecommunications equipment; and other items of tangible personal property (and interests in any of the foregoing).
Personal Property
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.06(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
PMRP
 
"" shall mean any Tax period (or portion thereof) ending on or before the close of business on the Closing Date.
Pre-Closing Tax Period
 
"" shall mean the prime rate per annum established by Citibank, N.A. or if Citibank, N.A. no longer establishes a prime rate for any reason, the prime rate per annum established by the largest U.S. bank measured by deposits from time to time as its base rate on corporate loans, automatically fluctuating upward or downward with each announcement of such prime rate.
Prime Rate
 
"" shall mean the Procedures for Dispute Resolution in substantially the form attached as Appendix B to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement, Appendix B to the Master Formation Agreement and Appendix B to the LLC Agreement.
Procedures for Dispute Resolution
 
"" shall mean the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B to the Master Formation Agreement.
Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement
 
"" shall mean the letters from USX, Marathon and Ashland, respectively, dated the date of and relating to the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement Disclosure Letters
 
"" shall mean the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended.
RCRA
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(g) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Reasonable Requested Action
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Registration Statement
 
"" shall mean (a) GAAP, (b) any pending Financial Accounting Standards Board exposure drafts or Emerging Issue Task Force minutes, (c) any relevant official pronouncement, release or staff accounting bulletin issued by the Commission, (d) any formal advice or statement by the Commission that it questions the ability of the parties to treat the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as a purchase by Marathon of Ashland's Business for accounting purposes or the ability of Marathon to consolidate the Company's Business in its financial statements or (e) if any other person has received formal advice, comment letter or a statement from the Commission that it questions the ability of such person to use purchase or consolidation accounting with respect to a similar transaction and such formal advice or statement leads Price Waterhouse to believe that the ability of Marathon and Ashland to treat the transactions contemplated by the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement as a purchase by Marathon of Ashland's Business for accounting purposes or the ability of Marathon to consolidate the Company's Business in its financial statements may be questioned or impaired.
Relevant Accounting Factors
 
"" shall mean any testing, investigation, assessment, cleanup, removal, response, remediation or other similar activities undertaken in connection with any Environmental Loss.
Remediation Activities
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.01 of the LLC Agreement.
Representative
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2(g) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Requested Action
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.7(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Retirement Pension Transfer Date
 
"" shall mean the Revolving Credit Agreement among Marathon, Ashland and the Company in substantially the form attached as Exhibit V to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Revolving Credit Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Securities Act
 
"" shall mean the Shared Services Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit U to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Shared Services Agreement
 
"" shall mean the projects listed on Schedule 7.2(k) to the Ashland Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement Disclosure Letter.
Special Environmental Projects
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Special Termination Price
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01 of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
Special Termination Right
 
"" shall mean the Marathon Sublease Agreements and the Ashland Sublease Agreements.
Sublease Agreements
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any person (herein referred to as the ""), any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association or other business entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or more than 50% of the general partner interests are, at the time any determination is being made, owned, controlled or held, or (b) that is, at the time any determination is made, otherwise controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
subsidiary
parent
 
"" shall mean the SuperAmerica division of Ashland.
SuperAmerica
 
"" shall mean any and all national, federal, state, provincial or local income, gross receipts, license, payroll, employment, excise, severance, stamp, occupation, premium, windfall profits, environmental, customs duties, capital stock, franchise, profits, withholding, social security (or similar), unemployment, disability, assets, real property, personal property, sales, use, transfer, registration, value added, alternative or add-on, minimum, estimated or other tax of any kind whatsoever, including any interest, penalty or addition thereto, whether disputed or not.
Tax
 
"" shall mean the amount of the reduction in an indemnified party's liability for Taxes (including reductions in Taxes attributable, in whole or in part, to positive basis adjustments) realized as a result of the payment or accrual of any loss, expense or Tax.
Tax Benefit
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.9(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Teamster Member Employees
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.9(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Teamsters Pension Fund
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.03 of the LLC Agreement.
Term of the Company
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Environmental Requirement (or discrete portion thereof) relating to Environmental Contamination, the earlier to occur of (a) the receipt by the Company, Marathon or Ashland, as applicable, of a no further action letter, or the substantial equivalent thereof, from the appropriate Governmental Authority or (b) the fifth anniversary date of the completion of Remediation Activities (which, for purposes of this definition, shall not include groundwater monitoring) undertaken as a result of or in connection with such Environmental Requirement (or discrete portion thereof) if during such five-year period no new Environmental Requirement relating to such Environmental Contamination (or discrete portion thereof) has been issued by an appropriate Governmental Authority.
Termination Event
 
"" shall mean a Claim that is not a Claim by Marathon, USX, Ashland, the Company or any of their Affiliates for its own Losses.
Third Party Claim
 
"" shall mean (i) the First Stage Throughput and Deficiency Agreement dated as of December 1, 1977, as amended by the First Amendment dated as of March 27, 1986, the Second Amendment dated as of January 1, 1989 and the Third Amendment dated as of September 11, 1991, among Ashland Inc. (formerly Ashland Oil, Inc.), Marathon Oil Company, Murphy Oil Corporation, Shell Oil Company, Texaco Inc. and LOOP LLC (formerly LOOP Inc.), (ii) the Initial Facility Throughput and Deficiency Agreement dated as of March 1, 1979, as amended by the First Amendment dated as of January 1, 1989, among Ashland Inc. (formerly Ashland Oil Inc.), Marathon Oil Company, Texaco Inc., Shell Oil Company and LOCAP Inc., and (iii) the Adjustment Agreement dated March 1, 1979, as amended by the First Amendment dated as of January 1, 1989, among Ashland Inc. (formerly Ashland Oil Inc.), Marathon Oil Company, Texaco Inc., Shell Oil Company and LOCAP Inc.
Throughput and Deficiency Agreements
 
"" shall mean the collective transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents.
Transaction
 
"" shall mean the Conveyance Documents, the Master Formation Agreement, the Parent Agreement, the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement, the LLC Agreement, the Indemnity Agreement and the Joint Defense Agreement.
Transaction Documents
 
"" shall mean any sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition, whether by merger or otherwise. When used as a verb, the term "Transfer" shall have a correlative meaning.
Transfer
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.4 of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Transfer Taxes
 
"" shall mean, with respect to Marathon and Ashland, the Marathon Transferred Assets and the Ashland Transferred Assets, respectively.
Transferred Assets
 
"" shall mean any insurance policy other than an insurance policy which is a captive insurance policy, a fronting insurance policy or an insurance policy for which the insured party is required to indemnify the insurer.
True Insurance Policy
 
"" shall mean USX Corporation, a Delaware corporation, any successor ultimate parent corporation of Marathon or, in the event Marathon is not a subsidiary of any other person, Marathon.
USX
 
"" shall mean the Valvoline Lube Oil Supply Agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit O to the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Valvoline Lube Oil Supply Agreement
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any person (herein referred to as the ""), any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association or other business entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing 100% of the equity or 100% of the ordinary voting power or 100% of the general partner interests are, at the time any determination is being made, owned, controlled or held, or (b) that is, at the time any determination is made, otherwise controlled, entirely by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
parent
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(e) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Working Capital Accounting Firm
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(d) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
Working Capital Deficiency Materiality Threshold
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of the Closing Date for the formation of the joint venture:
 
None
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of the Closing Date for the formation of the joint venture:
 
 
 
 
 
See Schedule 4.3 to the Master Formation Agreement for a listing of governmental approvals and consents required.
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of the Closing Date for the formation of the joint venture:
 
None
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of the Closing Date for the formation of the joint venture:
 
 
 
 
 
See Schedule 4.4 to the Master Formation Agreement for a listing of governmental approvals and consents required.
 
 
 
 
None of the following is a Competitive Business:
 
 
Arctic LNG Transportation Company
Badger Pipe Line Company
Colonial Pipeline Company
Eagle Sun Company Limited
Explorer Pipeline Company
Inventory Management and Distribution Company, L.L.
Kenai LNG Corporation
Polar LNG Shipping Corporation
The Pecos Carbon Dioxide Company
West Shore Pipe Line Company
Wolverine Pipe Line Company
 
the following activities:
 
acquisition of additional equity interests, the sale or exchange of any currently held or after-acquired equity interests, or participation in any merger, consolidation, combination, conversion, liquidation, transfer of assets or other reorganization involving any such equity interests;
 
exercise of voting rights, or participation in the management, via representation on the board of directors or comparable management body;
 
receipt of dividends or other participation in income or losses.
 
 
Assets
East Cameron Block 338 to Block 321 8" Crude
East Cameron Block 321 to Vermilion Block 265
Eugene Island 8" Crude
Eugene Island Pipeline
South Pass West Delta 12" Crude
South Marsh Island #155 System
Vermilion 8" Crude
 
 
Companies
Manta Ray Offshore Gathering Company, L.L.C.
Nautilus Pipeline Company, L.L.C.
Neptune Pipeline Company, L.L.C.
Ocean Breeze Pipeline Company, L.L.C.
Odyssey Pipeline L.L.C.
Poseidon Oil Pipeline, L.L.C.
 
In the case of the above or any other offshore pipelines, any offshore pipeline activity whatsoever, including but not limited to the unrestricted right to participate in future projects.
 
 
the sale or exchange of the equity interest and/or the expansion of the pipelines necessary to serve Marathon's upstream business.
 
 
 
1. The "Valvoline Business" as defined in Section 14.03(h) of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement.
 
2. Any activity whatsoever related to the parents, copyrights, know-how and related information set forth on Schedule 3.2(l) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
 
3. The marketing of petrochemicals by Ashland or an of its affiliates.
 
4. The ownership, operation and use of the service stations and bulk plants set forth on Schedule 3.2(a) of the Asset Transfer and Contribution Agreement.
 


