FILE:MRO/MRO-8K-20070907115047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01 Other Items
        As previously reported on April 25, 2007, Marathon Oil Corporation's Board of Directors declared a two-for-one split of Marathon's common stock. The stock split was effected in the form of a stock dividend distributed on June 18, 2007 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 23, 2007. Stockholders received one additional share of Marathon Oil Corporation common stock for each share of common stock held as of the close of business on the record date. In addition, shares of common stock issued or issuable for stock-based awards under Marathon's incentive compensation plans were proportionately increased in accordance with the terms of the plans.
        As an aid to investors, Marathon determined to republish each of the following on September 7, 2007, in each case to provide retroactive adjustments to reflect the stock split for all periods presented: (1) the consolidated financial statements which were included in Marathon's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 (the "2006 Form 10-K"); (2) the "Selected Financial Data" included in the 2006 Form 10-K; (3) the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the 2006 Form 10-K; (4) the disclosures under the caption "Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" in the 2006 Form 10-K, (5) the consolidated financial statements which were included in Marathon's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 (the "First Quarter Form 10-Q"); (6) the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in the First Quarter Form 10-Q; and (7) the disclosures under the caption "Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds" in the First Quarter Form 10-Q. The republished information is included as Exhibits 99.1 through 99.7 to this report, each of which is incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01. Except for providing revised share and per share disclosures, this report does not update the 2006 Form 10-K or the first quarter Form 10-Q or changes since their respective filing dates (e.g., new accounting pronouncements and developments in legal proceedings). Accordingly, this report should be read in conjunction with the 2006 Form 10-K and the First Quarter Form 10-Q and Marathon's subsequently filed quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2007.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
SIGNATURES
EXHIBIT INDEX

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 23.1
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements listed below of Marathon Oil Corporation of our report dated February 28, 2007, except for Note 31 as to which the date is September 6, 2007, relating to the financial statements, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 8-K:
/s/  
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
      
Houston, Texas September 6, 2007
QuickLinks
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.1
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
    MARATHON OIL CORPORATION
Index to 2006 Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
F-1
                   
Management's Responsibilities for Financial Statements
To the Stockholders of Marathon Oil Corporation:
        The accompanying consolidated financial statements of Marathon Oil Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Marathon") are the responsibility of management and have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. They necessarily include some amounts that are based on best judgments and estimates. The financial information displayed in other sections of Marathon's Annual Report on Form 10-K is consistent with these consolidated financial statements.
        Marathon seeks to assure the objectivity and integrity of its financial records by careful selection of its managers, by organizational arrangements that provide an appropriate division of responsibility and by communications programs aimed at assuring that its policies and methods are understood throughout the organization.
        The Board of Directors pursues its oversight role in the area of financial reporting and internal control over financial reporting through its Audit Committee. This Committee, composed solely of independent directors, regularly meets (jointly and separately) with the independent registered public accounting firm, management and internal auditors to monitor the proper discharge by each of their responsibilities relative to internal accounting controls and the consolidated financial statements.
                   
Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
To the Stockholders of Marathon Oil Corporation:
        Marathon's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a  15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). An evaluation of the design and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, based on the framework in
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, was conducted under the supervision and the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based on the results of this evaluation, Marathon's management concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006.
        Marathon's management assessment of the effectiveness of Marathon's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.
F-2
                   
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders of Marathon Oil Corporation:
        We have completed integrated audits of Marathon Oil Corporation's consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.
                   Consolidated financial statements
        In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Marathon Oil Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
        As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its methods of accounting for purchases and sales of inventory with the same counterparty and defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans in 2006 and its method of accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations in 2005.
                   Internal control over financial reporting
        Also, in our opinion, management's assessment, included in Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, appearing herein, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 based on criteria established in
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
issued by the COSO. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management's assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
        A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
        Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/  
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
      Houston, Texas February 28, 2007, except for Note 31 as to which the date is September 6, 2007
F-3
                   
Consolidated Statements of Income
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Amounts for all periods have been restated to reflect the June 18, 2007 two-for-one stock split as discussed in Note 31.
F-4
                   
Consolidated Balance Sheets
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Amounts for all periods have been restated to reflect the June 18, 2007 two-for-one stock split as discussed in Note 31.
F-5
                   
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                     The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
F-6
                   
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Amounts for all periods have been restated to reflect the June 18, 2007 two-for-one stock split as discussed in Note 31.
F-7
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Summary of Principal Accounting Policies
Marathon Oil Corporation ("Marathon" or the "Company") is engaged in worldwide exploration, production and marketing of crude oil and natural gas; domestic refining, marketing and transportation of crude oil and petroleum products; and worldwide marketing and transportation of products manufactured from natural gas, such as liquefied natural gas ("LNG") and methanol, and development of other projects to link stranded natural gas resources with key demand areas.
Principles applied in consolidation
    These consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the businesses comprising Marathon.
        Prior to June 30, 2005, Marathon owned a 62 percent interest in Marathon Petroleum Company LLC ("MPC"). After Marathon acquired the remaining 38 percent interest as described in Note 6, MPC became a wholly owned subsidiary of Marathon. The accounts of MPC are consolidated in these financial statements for all periods presented and the applicable minority interest has been recognized for activity prior to the acquisition date.
        Investments in unincorporated oil and natural gas joint ventures and undivided interests in certain pipelines, natural gas processing plants and LNG tankers are consolidated on a pro rata basis.
        Investments in variable interest entities ("VIEs") for which Marathon is the primary beneficiary are consolidated.
        Investments in entities over which Marathon has significant influence, but not control, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are carried at Marathon's share of net assets plus loans and advances. This includes entities in which Marathon holds majority ownership but the minority shareholders have substantive participating rights in the investee. Differences in the basis of the investments and the separate net asset values of the investees, if any, are amortized into net income over the remaining useful lives of the underlying assets, except for the excess related to goodwill. Income from equity method investments represents Marathon's proportionate share of net income generated by the equity method investees.
        Gains or losses from a change in ownership of a consolidated subsidiary or an unconsolidated investee are recognized in net income in the period of change.
Use of estimates
    The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the respective reporting periods.
Income per common share
    Basic income per share is calculated based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted income per share assumes exercise of stock options and warrants and conversion of convertible debt and preferred securities, provided the effect is not antidilutive.
Segment information
    Marathon's operations consist of three reportable operating segments:
 - 
Exploration and Production ("E&P")  explores for, produces and markets crude oil and natural gas on a worldwide basis;
 - 
Refining, Marketing and Transportation ("RM&T")  refines, markets and transports crude oil and petroleum products, primarily in the Midwest, the upper Great Plains and southeastern United States; and
 - 
Integrated Gas ("IG")  markets and transports products manufactured from natural gas, such as LNG and methanol, on a worldwide basis, and is developing other projects to link stranded natural gas resources with key demand areas.
        Management has determined that these are its operating segments because these are the components of Marathon (1) that engage in business activities from which revenues are earned and expenses are incurred, (2) whose operating results are regularly reviewed by Marathon's chief operating decision maker ("CODM") to make decisions about resources to be allocated and to assess performance and (3) for which discrete financial information is available. The CODM is responsible for allocating resources to and assessing performance of Marathon's operating segments. Information regarding assets by segment is not presented because it is not reviewed by the CODM. The CODM is the manager over the E&P and IG segments and the manager of the RM&T segment reports to the CODM. The segment managers are responsible for allocating resources within the segments, reviewing financial results of components within the segments and assessing the performance of the components. The components within the segments that are separately reviewed and assessed by the CODM in his role as segment manager are aggregable because they have similar economic characteristics. The CODM reviews the financial results of the RM&T segment at the segment level.
        Segment income represents income from continuing operations, net of minority interests and income taxes, attributable to the operating segments. Marathon's corporate general and administrative costs are not allocated to the operating segments. These costs primarily consist of employment costs (including pension effects), professional services, facilities and other costs associated with corporate activities. Non-cash gains and losses on two long-term natural gas sales contracts in the United Kingdom accounted for as derivative instruments, gains and losses on ownership changes in subsidiaries and certain non-operating or infrequently occurring items (as determined by the CODM) also are not allocated to operating segments. See the reconciliation of segment income to consolidated net income in Note 9.
Revenue recognition
    Revenues are recognized when products are shipped or services are provided to customers, title is transferred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Costs associated with revenues are recorded in cost of revenues.
F-8
        Marathon recognizes revenues from the production of oil and natural gas when title is transferred. In the continental United States, production volumes of liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas are sold immediately and transported via pipeline. In Alaska and international locations, production volumes may be stored as inventory and sold at a later time. Royalties on the production of oil and natural gas are either paid in cash or settled through the delivery of volumes. Marathon includes royalties in its revenues and cost of revenues when settlement of the royalties is paid in cash, while royalties settled by the delivery of volumes are excluded from revenues and cost of revenues.
        Rebates from vendors are recognized as a reduction of cost of revenues when the initiating transaction occurs. Incentives that are derived from contractual provisions are accrued based on past experience and recognized in cost of revenues.
        Marathon follows the sales method of accounting for crude oil and natural gas production imbalances and would recognize a liability if the existing proved reserves were not adequate to cover the current imbalance situation.
Matching buy/sell transactions
    In a typical matching buy/sell transaction, Marathon enters into a contract to sell a particular quantity and quality of crude oil or refined product at a specified location and date to a particular counterparty, and simultaneously agrees to buy a particular quantity and quality of the same commodity at a specified location on the same or another specified date from the same counterparty. The value of the purchased volumes rarely equals the sales value of the sold volumes. The value differences between purchases and sales are primarily due to (1) grade/quality differentials, (2) location differentials and/or (3) timing differences in those instances when the purchase and sale do not occur in the same month.
        For the E&P segment, Marathon enters into matching buy/sell transactions to reposition crude oil from one market center to another to maximize the value received for Marathon's crude oil production. For the RM&T segment, Marathon enters into crude oil matching buy/sell transactions to secure the most profitable refinery supply and enters into refined product matching buy/sell transactions to meet projected customer demand and to secure the required volumes in the most cost-effective manner.
        Prior to April 1, 2006, Marathon recorded all such matching buy/sell transactions in both revenues and cost of revenues as separate sale and purchase transactions. Effective April 1, 2006, upon adoption of the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 04-13, Marathon accounts for matching buy/sell arrangements entered into or modified as exchanges of inventory, except for those arrangements accounted for as derivative instruments.
        A portion of Marathon's matching buy/sell transactions are "nontraditional derivative instruments," which are described below. Effective for contracts entered into or modified on or after April 1, 2006, the income effects of matching buy/sell arrangements accounted for as nontraditional derivative instruments are recognized on a net basis as cost of revenues.
        See Note 2 for further information regarding Marathon's adoption of EITF Issue No. 04-13.
Consumer excise taxes
    Marathon is required by various governmental authorities, including countries, states and municipalities, to collect and remit taxes on certain consumer products. Such taxes are presented on a gross basis in revenues and costs and expenses in the consolidated statements of income.
Cash and cash equivalents
    Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and on deposit and investments in highly liquid debt instruments with maturities generally of three months or less.
Accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts
    Marathon's receivables primarily consist of customer accounts receivable, including proprietary credit card receivables. The allowance for doubtful accounts is the best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in Marathon's proprietary credit card receivables. Marathon determines the allowance based on historical write-off experience and the volume of proprietary credit card sales. Marathon reviews the allowance quarterly and past-due balances over 180 days are reviewed individually for collectibility.    All other customer receivables are recorded at the invoiced amounts and generally do not bear interest. Account balances for these customer receivables are charged directly to bad debt expense when it becomes probable the receivable will not be collected.
Inventories
    Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market value. Cost of inventories is determined primarily under the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method. An inventory market valuation reserve results when the recorded LIFO cost basis of crude oil and refined products inventories exceeds net realizable value. The reserve is decreased when market prices increase and inventories turn over and is increased when market prices decrease. Changes in the inventory market valuation reserve result in non-cash charges or credits to costs and expenses.
Traditional derivative instruments
    Marathon uses derivatives to manage its exposure to commodity price risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.    Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and combinations of options, including written or net written options, related to the purchase, production or sale of crude oil, natural gas, refined products and ethanol, the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, future interest expense and certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in the fair values of all traditional derivatives are recognized immediately in net income unless the derivative qualifies as a hedge of future cash flows or certain foreign currency exposures. Cash flows related to derivatives used to manage commodity price risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk related to operating expenditures are classified in operating activities with the underlying hedged transactions. Cash flows related to derivatives used to manage exchange rate risk related to capital expenditures denominated in foreign currencies are classified in investing activities with the underlying hedged transactions.
        For derivatives qualifying as hedges of future cash flows or certain foreign currency exposures, the effective portion of any changes in fair value is recognized in other comprehensive income and is reclassified to net income when the
F-9
underlying forecasted transaction is recognized in net income. Any ineffective portion of such hedges is recognized in net income as it occurs. For discontinued cash flow hedges, prospective changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized in net income. The accumulated gain or loss recognized in other comprehensive income at the time a hedge is discontinued continues to be deferred until the original forecasted transaction occurs. However, if it is determined that the likelihood of the original forecasted transaction occurring is no longer probable, the entire accumulated gain or loss recognized in other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified into net income.
        For derivatives designated as hedges of the fair value of recognized assets, liabilities or firm commitments, changes in the fair values of both the hedged item and the related derivative are recognized immediately in net income with an offsetting effect included in the basis of the hedged item. The net effect is to report in net income the extent to which the hedge is not effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value.
        Amounts reported in net income are classified as revenues, cost of revenues, depreciation, depletion and amortization or net interest and other financing costs or income based on the nature of the underlying transactions.
        As market conditions change, Marathon may use selective derivative instruments that assume market risk. For derivative instruments that are classified as trading, changes in fair value are recognized immediately in net income and are classified as other income. Any premium received is amortized into net income based on the underlying settlement terms of the derivative position. All related effects of a trading strategy, including physical settlement of the derivative position, are also recognized in net income and classified as other income.
Nontraditional derivative instruments
    Certain contracts involving the purchase or sale of commodities are not considered normal purchases or normal sales under generally accepted accounting principles and are required to be accounted for as derivative instruments. Marathon refers to such contracts as "nontraditional derivative instruments" because, unlike traditional derivative instruments, nontraditional derivative instruments have not been entered into to manage a risk exposure. Such contracts are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value and changes in fair values are recognized in net income and are classified as either revenues or cost of revenues.
        In the E&P segment, two long-term natural gas delivery commitment contracts in the United Kingdom are classified as nontraditional derivative instruments. These contracts contain pricing provisions that are not clearly and closely related to the underlying commodity and therefore must be accounted for as derivative instruments.
        In the RM&T segment, certain physical commodity contracts are classified as nontraditional derivative instruments because certain volumes under these contracts are physically netted at particular delivery locations. The netting process causes all contracts at that delivery location to be considered derivative instruments. Other physical contracts that management has chosen not to designate as a normal purchase or normal sale, which can include contracts that involve flash title, are also accounted for as nontraditional derivative instruments.
Investment in marketable securities
    Management determines the appropriate classification of investments in marketable debt and equity securities at the time of acquisition and re-evaluates such designation as of each subsequent balance sheet date. Securities classified as "available for sale" are carried at estimated fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. Marathon holds no securities classified as "held to maturity securities" or "trading securities." Realized and unrealized gains and losses are calculated using the specific identification method.
Property, plant and equipment
    Marathon uses the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities. Costs to acquire mineral interests in oil and natural gas properties, to drill and equip exploratory wells that find proved reserves and to drill and equip development wells are capitalized. Costs to drill exploratory wells that do not find proved reserves, geological and geophysical costs and costs of carrying and retaining unproved properties are expensed. Costs incurred for exploratory wells that find reserves that cannot yet be classified as proved are capitalized if (1) the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and (2) Marathon is making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. The status of suspended well costs is monitored continuously and reviewed not less than quarterly.
        Capitalized costs of producing oil and natural gas properties are depreciated and depleted by the units-of-production method. Support equipment and other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives.
        Marathon evaluates its oil and gas producing properties for impairment of value on a field-by-field basis or, in certain instances, by logical grouping of assets if there is significant shared infrastructure. Impairment of proved properties is required when the carrying value exceeds undiscounted future net cash flows based on total proved and risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves. Oil and gas producing properties deemed to be impaired are written down to their fair value, as determined by discounted future net cash flows based on total proved and risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves or, if available, comparable market values.
        Marathon evaluates its unproved property investment and impairs based on time or geologic factors in addition to the use of an undiscounted future net cash flow approach. Information such as drilling results, reservoir performance, seismic interpretation or future plans to develop acreage are also considered. Unproved property investments deemed to be impaired are written down to their fair value, as determined by discounted future net cash flows. Impairment expense for unproved oil and natural gas properties is reported in exploration expenses.
        Property, plant and equipment unrelated to oil and gas producing activities is recorded at cost and depreciated on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from 3 to 42 years. Such assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the sum of the expected future cash flows from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition is less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized based on the fair value of the asset.
F-10
        When property, plant and equipment depreciated on an individual basis are sold or otherwise disposed of, any gains or losses are reported in net income. Gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment are recognized when earned, which is generally at the time of closing. If a loss on disposal is expected, such losses are recognized when the assets are classified as held for sale. Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment depreciated on a group basis are credited to accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization with no immediate effect on net income.
Goodwill
    Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired in the acquisition of a business. Such goodwill is not amortized, but rather is tested for impairment annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit with goodwill has been reduced below carrying value. The impairment test requires allocating goodwill and other assets and liabilities to reporting units. Marathon has determined the components of the E&P segment have similar economic characteristics and therefore aggregates the components into a single reporting unit. The RM&T segment is composed of three reporting units: refining and marketing, pipeline transportation and retail marketing. The fair value of each reporting unit is determined and compared to the book value of the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the book value, including goodwill, then the recorded goodwill is impaired to its implied fair value with a charge to expense.
Intangible assets
    Intangible assets primarily include retail marketing tradenames, intangible contract rights and marketing branding agreements. Certain of the marketing tradenames have indefinite lives and therefore are not amortized, but rather are tested for impairment annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the intangible asset has been reduced below carrying value. The other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives or the expected lives of the related contracts, as applicable, which range from 2 to 22 years. Such assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the sum of the expected future cash flows from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition is less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized based on the fair value of the asset.
Environmental costs
    Environmental expenditures are capitalized if the costs mitigate or prevent future contamination or if the costs improve environmental safety or efficiency of the existing assets. Marathon provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs can be reasonably estimated. The timing of remediation accruals coincides with completion of a feasibility study or the commitment to a formal plan of action. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposure and are discounted when the estimated amounts are reasonably fixed and determinable. If recoveries of remediation costs from third parties are probable, a receivable is recorded and is discounted when the estimated amount is reasonably fixed and determinable.
Asset retirement obligations
    The fair values of asset retirement obligations are recognized in the period in which they are incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. For Marathon, asset retirement obligations primarily relate to the abandonment of oil and gas producing facilities. Asset retirement obligations for such facilities include costs to dismantle and relocate or dispose of production platforms, gathering systems, wells and related structures and restoration costs of land and seabed, including those leased. Estimates of these costs are developed for each property based on the type of production structure, depth of water, reservoir characteristics, depth of the reservoir, market demand for equipment, currently available procedures and consultations with construction and engineering professionals. Asset retirement obligations have not been recognized for certain of Marathon's international oil and gas producing facilities as Marathon currently does not have a legal obligation associated with the retirement of those facilities.
        Effective December 31, 2005, conditional asset retirement obligations for removal and disposal of fire-retardant material from certain refining facilities have been recognized. The amounts recorded for such obligations are based on the most probable current cost projections. Asset retirement obligations have not been recognized for the removal of materials and equipment from or the closure of certain refinery, pipeline and marketing assets because the fair value cannot be reasonably estimated due to an indeterminate settlement date of the obligation.
        Current inflation rates and credit-adjusted-risk-free interest rates are used to estimate the fair values of asset retirement obligations. Depreciation of capitalized asset retirement costs and accretion of asset retirement obligations are recorded over time. Depreciation is generally determined on a units-of-production basis for oil and gas production facilities and on a straight-line basis for refining facilities, while accretion escalates over the lives of the assets.
Deferred taxes
    Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases as reported in Marathon's filings with the respective taxing authorities. The realization of deferred tax assets is assessed periodically based on several interrelated factors. These factors include Marathon's expectation to generate sufficient future taxable income including future foreign source income, tax credits, operating loss carryforwards and management's intent regarding the permanent reinvestment of the income from certain foreign subsidiaries.
Pensions and other postretirement benefits
    Marathon uses a December 31 measurement date for its pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
Stock-based compensation arrangements
    Marathon adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment," as a revision of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," as of January 1, 2006. Marathon had previously adopted the fair value method under SFAS No. 123 for grants made, modified or settled on or after January 1, 2003.
F-11
        The fair value of stock options, stock options with tandem stock appreciation rights ("SARs") and stock-settled SARs ("stock option awards") is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The model employs various assumptions, based on management's best estimates at the time of grant, which impact the fair value calculated and ultimately, the expense that is recognized over the life of the stock option award. Of the required assumptions, the expected life of the stock option award and the expected volatility of Marathon's stock price have the most significant impact on the fair value calculation. Marathon has utilized historical data and analyzed current information which reasonably support these assumptions.
        The fair value of Marathon's restricted stock awards and common stock units is determined based on the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. Prior to adoption of SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," ("SFAS No. 123(R)") on January 1, 2006, the fair values of Marathon's stock-based performance awards were determined in the same manner as restricted stock awards. Under SFAS No. 123(R), on a prospective basis, these awards are required to be valued utilizing an option pricing model. See Note 2 for further information regarding Marathon's adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). No stock-based performance awards have been granted since May 2004.
        Effective January 1, 2006, Marathon's stock-based compensation expense is recognized based on management's best estimate of the awards that are expected to vest, using the straight-line attribution method for all service-based awards with a graded vesting feature. If actual forfeiture results are different than expected, adjustments to recognized compensation expense may be required in future periods. Unearned stock-based compensation is charged to stockholders' equity when restricted stock awards and stock-based performance awards are granted. Compensation expense is recognized over the balance of the vesting period and is adjusted if conditions of the restricted stock award or stock-based performance award are not met. Options with tandem SARs are classified as a liability and are remeasured at fair value each reporting period until settlement.
        Prior to January 1, 2006, Marathon recorded stock-based compensation expense over the stated vesting period for stock option awards that are subject to specific vesting conditions and specify (1) that an employee vests in the award upon becoming "retirement eligible" or (2) that the employee will continue to vest in the award after retirement without providing any additional service. Under SFAS No. 123(R), from the January 1, 2006 date of adoption, such compensation cost is recognized immediately for awards granted to retirement-eligible employees or over the period from the grant date to the retirement eligibility date if retirement eligibility will be reached during the stated vesting period. See Note 26 for more information on stock-based compensation expense, stock option award, stock-based performance award and restricted stock award activity, valuation assumptions and other information required to be disclosed under SFAS No. 123(R).
Concentrations of credit risk
    Marathon is exposed to credit risk in the event of nonpayment by counterparties, a significant portion of which are concentrated in energy-related industries. The creditworthiness of customers and other counterparties is subject to continuing review, including the use of master netting agreements, where appropriate. While no single customer accounts for more than 10 percent of annual revenues, Marathon has significant exposures to United States Steel arising from the transaction discussed in Note 3.
Reclassifications
    Certain reclassifications of prior years' data have been made to conform to 2006 classifications.
2. New Accounting Standards
SFAS No. 158
    In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)." This standard requires an employer to: (1) recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a plan's overfunded status or a liability for a plan's underfunded status; (2) measure a plan's assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer's fiscal year (with limited exceptions); and (3) recognize changes in the funded status of a plan in the year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income. The funded status of a plan is measured as the difference between plan assets at fair value and the benefit obligation. For a pension plan, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation and for any other postretirement plan it is the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. Marathon adopted SFAS No. 158 prospectively as of December 31, 2006 and has recognized the funded status of its plans in the consolidated balance sheet as of that date. The adoption of SFAS No. 158 had no impact on Marathon's measurement date as the Company has historically measured the plan assets and benefit obligations of its pension and other postretirement plans as of December 31. See Note 24 for additional disclosures regarding pensions and other postretirement plans required by SFAS No. 158.
F-12
        The following table illustrates the incremental effect of applying SFAS No. 158 on individual line items of the balance sheet as of December 31, 2006.
SAB No. 108
    In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 108, "Financial Statements  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements." SAB No. 108 addresses how a registrant should quantify the effect of an error in the financial statements for purposes of assessing materiality and requires that the effect be computed using both the current year income statement perspective ("rollover") and the year end balance sheet perspective ("iron curtain") methods for fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006. If a change in the method of quantifying errors is required under SAB No. 108, this represents a change in accounting policy; therefore, if the use of both methods results in a larger, material misstatement than the previously applied method, the financial statements must be adjusted. SAB No. 108 allows the cumulative effect of such adjustments to be made to opening retained earnings upon adoption. Marathon adopted SAB No. 108 for the year ended December 31, 2006, and adoption did not have an effect on Marathon's consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
EITF Issue No. 06-03
    In June 2006, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the EITF regarding Issue No. 06-03, "How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross versus Net Presentation)." Included in the scope of this issue are any taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction between a seller and a customer. The EITF concluded that the presentation of such taxes on a gross basis (included in revenues and costs) or a net basis (excluded from revenues) is an accounting policy decision that should be disclosed pursuant to Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 22, "Disclosure of Accounting Policies." In addition, the amounts of such taxes reported on a gross basis must be disclosed if those tax amounts are significant. The policy disclosures required by this consensus are included in Note 1 under the heading "Consumer excise taxes" and the taxes reported on a gross basis are presented separately as consumer excise taxes in the consolidated statements of income.
EITF Issue No. 04-13
    In September 2005, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the EITF on Issue No. 04-13, "Accounting for Purchases and Sales of Inventory with the Same Counterparty." The consensus establishes the circumstances under which two or more inventory purchase and sale transactions with the same counterparty should be recognized at fair value or viewed as a single exchange transaction subject to APB Opinion No. 29, "Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions." In general, two or more transactions with the same counterparty must be combined for purposes of applying APB Opinion No. 29 if they are entered into in contemplation of each other. The purchase and sale transactions may be pursuant to a single contractual arrangement or separate contractual arrangements and the inventory purchased or sold may be in the form of raw materials, work-in-process or finished goods.
        Effective April 1, 2006, Marathon adopted the provisions of EITF Issue No. 04-13 prospectively. EITF Issue No. 04-13 changes the accounting for matching buy/sell arrangements that are entered into or modified on or after April 1, 2006 (except for those accounted for as derivative instruments, which are discussed below). In a typical matching buy/sell transaction, Marathon enters into a contract to sell a particular quantity and quality of crude oil or refined product at a specified location and date to a particular counterparty and simultaneously agrees to buy a particular quantity and quality of the same commodity at a specified location on the same or another specified date from the same counterparty. Prior to adoption of EITF Issue No. 04-13, Marathon recorded such matching buy/sell transactions in both revenues and cost of revenues as separate sale and purchase transactions. Upon adoption, these transactions are accounted for as exchanges of inventory.
        The scope of EITF Issue No. 04-13 excludes matching buy/sell arrangements that are accounted for as derivative instruments. A portion of Marathon's matching buy/sell transactions are "nontraditional derivative instruments," which are discussed in Note 1. Although the accounting for nontraditional derivative instruments is outside the scope of EITF Issue No. 04-13, the conclusions reached in that consensus caused Marathon to reconsider the guidance in EITF Issue No. 03-11, "Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That Are Subject to FASB Statement No. 133 and Not "Held for Trading Purposes" as Defined in Issue No. 02-3." As a result, effective for contracts entered into or modified on or after April 1, 2006, the effects of matching buy/sell arrangements accounted for as nontraditional derivative instruments are recognized on a net basis in net income and are classified as cost of revenues. Prior to this change, Marathon recorded these transactions in both revenues and cost of revenues as separate sale and purchase transactions. This change in accounting principle is being applied on a prospective basis because it is impracticable to apply the change on a retrospective basis.
F-13
        Transactions arising from all matching buy/sell arrangements entered into before April 1, 2006 will continue to be reported as separate sale and purchase transactions.
        The adoption of EITF Issue No. 04-13 and the change in the accounting for nontraditional derivative instruments had no effect on net income. The amounts of revenues and cost of revenues recognized after April 1, 2006 are less than the amounts that would have been recognized under previous accounting practices.
SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004)
    In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment," as a revision of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." This statement requires entities to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the fair value of the award on the grant date. That cost is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award, usually the vesting period. In addition, awards classified as liabilities are remeasured at fair value each reporting period. Marathon had previously adopted the fair value method under SFAS No. 123 for grants made, modified or settled on or after January 1, 2003.
        SFAS No. 123(R) also requires a company to calculate the pool of excess tax benefits available to absorb tax deficiencies recognized subsequent to adopting the statement. In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP No. 123R-3, "Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards," to provide an alternative transition election (the "short-cut method") to account for the tax effects of share-based payment awards to employees. Marathon elected the long-form method to determine its pool of excess tax benefits as of January 1, 2006.
        Marathon adopted SFAS No. 123(R) as of January 1, 2006, for all awards granted, modified or cancelled after adoption and for the unvested portion of awards outstanding at January 1, 2006. At the date of adoption, SFAS No. 123(R) requires that an assumed forfeiture rate be applied to any unvested awards and that awards classified as liabilities be measured at fair value. Prior to adopting SFAS No. 123(R), Marathon recognized forfeitures as they occurred and applied the intrinsic value method to awards classified as liabilities. The adoption did not have a significant effect on Marathon's consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
SFAS No. 151
    Effective January 1, 2006, Marathon adopted SFAS No. 151, "Inventory Costs  an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4." This statement requires that items such as idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight and re-handling costs be recognized as a current-period charge. The adoption did not have a significant effect on Marathon's consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
SFAS No. 154
    Effective January 1, 2006, Marathon adopted SFAS No. 154, "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  A Replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3." SFAS No. 154 requires companies to recognize (1) voluntary changes in accounting principle and (2) changes required by a new accounting pronouncement, when the pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions, retrospectively to prior periods' financial statements, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change.
FIN No. 47
    In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation ("FIN") No. 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143." This interpretation clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a liability for a legal obligation to perform asset retirement activities when the retirement is conditional on a future event if the liability's fair value can be reasonably estimated. If the liability's fair value cannot be reasonably estimated, then the entity must disclose (1) a description of the obligation, (2) the fact that a liability has not been recognized because the fair value cannot be reasonably estimated and (3) the reasons why the fair value cannot be reasonably estimated. FIN No. 47 also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. Marathon adopted FIN No. 47 as of December 31, 2005. A charge of $19 million, net of taxes of $12 million, related to adopting FIN No. 47 was recognized as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in 2005. At the time of adoption, total assets increased $22 million and total liabilities increased $41 million.
        The pro forma net income and net income per share effect as if FIN No. 47 had been applied during 2005 and 2004 is not significantly different than amounts reported. The following summarizes the total amount of the liability for asset retirement obligations as if FIN No. 47 had been applied during all periods presented. The pro forma impact of the adoption of FIN No. 47 on these unaudited pro forma liability amounts has been measured using the information, assumptions and interest rates used to measure the obligation recognized upon adoption of FIN No. 47.
SFAS No. 153
    Marathon adopted SFAS No. 153, "Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets  an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29," on a prospective basis as of July 1, 2005. This amendment eliminates the APB Opinion No. 29 exception for fair value recognition of nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with an exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance.
FSP No. FAS 19-1
    Effective January 1, 2005, Marathon adopted FSP No. FAS 19-1, "Accounting for Suspended Well Costs," which amended the guidance for suspended exploratory well costs in SFAS No. 19, "Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies." SFAS No. 19 requires costs of drilling exploratory wells to be capitalized pending determination of whether the well has found proved reserves. When a classification of proved
F-14
reserves cannot yet be made, FSP No. FAS 19-1 allows exploratory well costs to continue to be capitalized when (1) the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify completion as a producing well and (2) the enterprise is making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Marathon's accounting policy for suspended exploratory well costs was in accordance with FSP No. FAS 19-1 prior to its adoption. FSP No. FAS 19-1 also requires certain disclosures to be made regarding capitalized exploratory well costs which are included in Note 15.
FSP No. FAS 109-1
    Effective December 21, 2004, Marathon adopted FSP No. FAS 109-1, "Application of FASB Statement No. 109,
Accounting for Income Taxes
, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004." FSP No. FAS 109-1 states the deduction, signed into law on October 22, 2004, of up to 9 percent (when fully phased-in) of the lesser of (1) "qualified production activities income," as defined in the Act, or (2) taxable income (after the deduction for the utilization of any net operating loss carryforwards) should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with SFAS No. 109. Accordingly, Marathon treats the deduction related to production activities income as a special deduction in the years taken.
FSP No. FAS 106-2
    Effective July 1, 2004, Marathon adopted FSP No. FAS 106-2, "Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003." FSP No. FAS 106-2 includes guidance on recognizing the effects of the new legislation under the various conditions surrounding the assessment of "actuarial equivalence." Marathon has determined, based on available regulatory guidance, that the postretirement plans' prescription drug benefits are actuarially equivalent to the Medicare "Part D" benefit under the Act. The subsidy-related reduction at July 1, 2004 in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for the Marathon postretirement benefit plans was $93 million. The combined favorable pretax effect of the subsidy-related reduction for 2004 on the measurement of the net periodic postretirement benefit cost related to service cost, interest cost and actuarial gain amortization was $7 million.
3. Information about United States Steel
The Separation
    Prior to December 31, 2001, Marathon had two outstanding classes of common stock: USX  Marathon Group common stock, which was intended to reflect the performance of Marathon's energy business, and USX  U.S. Steel Group common stock ("Steel Stock"), which was intended to reflect the performance of Marathon's steel business. On December 31, 2001, in a tax-free distribution to holders of Steel Stock, Marathon exchanged the common stock of United States Steel for all outstanding shares of Steel Stock on a one-for-one basis (the "Separation"). In connection with the Separation, Marathon and United States Steel entered into a number of agreements, including:
Financial Matters Agreement
    Marathon and United States Steel have entered into a Financial Matters Agreement that provides for United States Steel's assumption of certain industrial revenue bonds and certain other financial obligations of Marathon. The Financial Matters Agreement also provides that, on or before the tenth anniversary of the Separation, United States Steel will provide for Marathon's discharge from any remaining liability under any of the assumed industrial revenue bonds.
        Under the Financial Matters Agreement, United States Steel has all of the existing contractual rights under the leases assumed from Marathon, including all rights related to purchase options, prepayments or the grant or release of security interests. However, United States Steel has no right to increase amounts due under or lengthen the term of any of the assumed leases, other than extensions set forth in the terms of any of the assumed leases.
        United States Steel is the sole general partner of Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P., which owns certain cokemaking facilities formerly owned by United States Steel. Marathon has guaranteed to the limited partners all obligations of United States Steel under the partnership documents. The Financial Matters Agreement requires United States Steel to use commercially reasonable efforts to have Marathon released from its obligations under this guarantee. United States Steel may dissolve the partnership under certain circumstances, including if it is required to fund accumulated cash shortfalls of the partnership in excess of $150 million. In addition to the normal commitments of a general partner, United States Steel has indemnified the limited partners for certain income tax exposures.
        The Financial Matters Agreement requires Marathon to use commercially reasonable efforts to assure compliance with all covenants and other obligations to avoid the occurrence of a default or the acceleration of payments on the assumed obligations.
        United States Steel's obligations to Marathon under the Financial Matters Agreement are general unsecured obligations that rank equal to United States Steel's accounts payable and other general unsecured obligations. The Financial Matters Agreement does not contain any financial covenants and United States Steel is free to incur additional debt, grant mortgages on or security interests in its property and sell or transfer assets without Marathon's consent.
Tax Sharing Agreement
    Marathon and United States Steel have entered into a Tax Sharing Agreement that reflects each party's rights and obligations relating to payments and refunds of income, sales, transfer and other taxes that are attributable to periods beginning prior to and including the Separation date and taxes resulting from transactions effected in connection with the Separation.
        In 2006 and 2005, in accordance with the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement, Marathon paid $35 million and $6 million to United States Steel in connection with the settlement with the Internal Revenue Service of the consolidated federal income tax returns of USX Corporation for the years 1995 through 2001. The final payment of $13 million to United States Steel related to U.S. federal tax returns under the Tax Sharing Agreement was made in January 2007.
F-15
Amounts receivable from or payable to United States Steel arising from the Separation
    As previously discussed, Marathon remains primarily obligated for certain financings for which United States Steel has assumed responsibility for repayment under the terms of the Separation. When United States Steel makes payments on the principal of these financings, both the receivable from United States Steel and the obligation are reduced.
        At December 31, 2006 and 2005, amounts receivable from or payable to United States Steel included in the consolidated balance sheets were as follows:
        Marathon remains primarily obligated for $34 million of operating lease obligations assumed by United States Steel, of which $31 million has been assumed by third parties that purchased plants and operations divested by United States Steel.
        In addition, Marathon remains contingently liable for certain obligations of United States Steel. See Note 30 for further information regarding these guarantees.
4. Variable Interest Entities
Equatorial Guinea LNG Holdings Limited ("EGHoldings"), in which Marathon holds a 60 percent interest and which was formed for the purpose of constructing and operating an LNG production facility, is a VIE that is consolidated. As of December 31, 2006, total expenditures of $1.363 billion related to the LNG production facility, including $1.300 billion of capital expenditures, have been incurred. The Andersons Marathon Ethanol LLC, a joint venture in which Marathon and its partner each hold a 50 percent interest and which was formed in 2006 for the purpose of constructing and operating one or more ethanol production plants, is a VIE that is not consolidated. As of December 31, 2006, Marathon had contributed $11 million to The Andersons Marathon Ethanol LLC.
5. Related Party Transactions
Related parties during 2006, 2005 and 2004 include:
 - 
Sociedad Nacional de Gas de Guinea Ecuatorial ("SONAGAS"), which has held a 25 percent ownership interest in EGHoldings, a consolidated subsidiary, since November 14, 2006;
 - 
Mitsui & Co., Ltd. ("Mitsui") and Marubeni Corporation ("Marubeni"), which have held 8.5 percent and 6.5 percent ownership interests in EGHoldings since July 25, 2005;
 - 
Compania Nacional de Petroleos de Guinea Ecuatorial ("GEPetrol"), which held a 25 percent ownership interest in EGHoldings until November 14, 2006;
 - 
Ashland Inc. ("Ashland"), which held a 38 percent ownership interest in MPC, a consolidated subsidiary, until June 30, 2005; and
 - 
Equity method investees. See "Principal Unconsolidated Investees" on page F-42 for major investees.
Management believes that transactions with related parties were conducted under terms comparable to those with unrelated parties.
        Related party sales to Pilot Travel Centers LLC ("PTC") and Ashland consist primarily of petroleum products. Revenues from related parties were as follows:
         Purchases from related parties were as follows:
F-16
        Current receivables from related parties were as follows:
         Payables to related parties were as follows:
        MPC had a $190 million uncommitted revolving credit agreement with Ashland that terminated in March 2005. Interest paid to Ashland for borrowings under this agreement was less than $1 million in each of 2005 and 2004.
        Cash of $234 million held in escrow for future capital contributions from SONAGAS to EGHoldings is classified as restricted cash and is included in investments and long-term receivables as of December 31, 2006.
6. Acquisitions
Minority interest in MPC
    On June 30, 2005, Marathon acquired the 38 percent ownership interest in Marathon Ashland Petroleum LLC ("MAP") previously held by Ashland. In addition, Marathon acquired a portion of Ashland's Valvoline Instant Oil Change business, its maleic anhydride business, its interest in LOOP LLC, which owns and operates the only U.S. deepwater oil port, and its interest in LOCAP LLC, which owns a crude oil pipeline. As a result of the transactions (the "Acquisition"), MAP is now wholly owned by Marathon and its name was changed to Marathon Petroleum Company LLC ("MPC") effective September 1, 2005. The Acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and, as such, Marathon's results of operations include the results of the acquired businesses from June 30, 2005. The total consideration, including debt assumed, is as follows:
(a)
The MAP Limited Liability Company Agreement was amended to eliminate the requirement for MPC to make quarterly cash distributions to Marathon and Ashland between the date the principal transaction agreements were signed and the closing of the Acquisition. Cash and MPC accounts receivable above include $506 million representing Ashland's 38 percent of MPC's distributable cash as of June 30, 2005.
(a)
Ashland shareholders received 35.078 million shares valued at $27.23 per share, which was Marathon's average common stock price over the trading days between June 23 and June 29, 2005. The exchange ratio was designed to provide an aggregate number of Marathon shares worth $915 million based on Marathon's average common stock price for each of the 20 consecutive trading days ending with the third complete trading day prior to June 30, 2005.
(a)
Assumed debt was repaid on July 1, 2005.
(a)
Marathon is entitled to certain tax deductions related to businesses previously owned by Ashland. However, pursuant to the terms of the tax matters agreement, Marathon has agreed to reimburse Ashland for a portion of the tax benefits associated with these deductions. This additional consideration will be included in the purchase price as amounts owed to Ashland are identified. During 2006, an additional $17 million was included in the purchase price for such amounts.
F-17
        The primary reasons for the Acquisition and the principal factors that contributed to a purchase price that resulted in the recognition of goodwill were:
 - 
Marathon believed the outlook for the refining and marketing business was attractive in MPC's core areas of operation. Complete ownership of MPC provided Marathon the opportunity to leverage MPC's access to premium U.S. markets where Marathon expected the levels of demand to remain high for the foreseeable future;
 - 
The Acquisition increased Marathon's participation in the RM&T business without the risks commonly associated with integrating a newly acquired business;
 - 
MPC provided Marathon with an increased source of cash flow which Marathon believed enhanced the geographical balance in its overall risk portfolio;
 - 
Marathon anticipated the transaction would be accretive to income per share;
 - 
The Acquisition eliminated the timing and valuation uncertainties associated with the exercise of the Put/Call, Registration Rights and Standstill Agreement entered into with the formation of MPC in 1998, as well as the associated premium and discount; and
 - 
The Acquisition eliminated the possibility that a misalignment of Ashland's and Marathon's interests, as co-owners of MPC, could adversely affect MPC's future growth and financial performance.
        The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of June 30, 2005.
        The goodwill arising from the purchase price allocation was $853 million, which was assigned to the RM&T segment. None of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. Of the $112 million allocated to intangible assets, $49 million was allocated to retail marketing tradenames with indefinite lives.
        The purchase price allocated to equity method investments is $230 million higher than the underlying net assets of the investees. This excess will be amortized over the expected useful lives of the underlying assets except for $144 million of the excess related to goodwill.
Libya re-entry
    On December 29, 2005, Marathon, in conjunction with its partners in the former Oasis Group, entered into an agreement with the National Oil Corporation of Libya to return to its oil and natural gas exploration and production operations in the Waha concessions in Libya. Marathon holds a 16.33 percent interest in the Waha concessions and was required to cease operations there in 1986 to comply with U.S. government sanctions. Over time, Marathon had written off all its assets in Libya. The re-entry terms include a 25-year extension of the concessions to 2030 through 2034 and payments from Marathon of $520 million and $198 million, which were made in January and December 2006.
        The primary reasons for the transaction and the principal factors that contributed to a purchase price that resulted in the recognition of goodwill include the fact that the re-entry allows Marathon to expand its exploration and production operations without many of the risks commonly associated with integrating a newly acquired business including having a trained workforce in place that has maintained operations and added to the hydrocarbon resource during the absence of Marathon and its partners. The transaction also could assist Marathon in identifying and participating in potential future projects in Libya.
F-18
        The operational re-entry date under the terms of the agreement was January 1, 2006; therefore, Marathon's consolidated results of operations for 2005 do not include any results from the operations of the Waha concessions. The transaction was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.
        The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of December 29, 2005.
        The goodwill arising from the purchase price allocation was $309 million, which was assigned to the E&P segment. None of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes.
        The following unaudited pro forma data is as if the Acquisition and the re-entry to the Libya concessions had been consummated at the beginning of each period presented. The pro forma data is based on historical information and does not reflect the actual results that would have occurred nor is it indicative of future results of operations.
7. Discontinued Operations
        On June 2, 2006, Marathon sold its Russian oil exploration and production businesses in the Khanty-Mansiysk region of western Siberia. Under the terms of the agreement, Marathon received $787 million for these businesses, plus preliminary working capital and other closing adjustments of $56 million, for a total transaction value of $843 million. Proceeds net of transaction costs and cash held by the Russian businesses at the transaction date totaled $832 million. A gain on the sale of $243 million ($342 million before income taxes) was reported in discontinued operations for 2006. Income taxes on this gain were reduced by the utilization of a capital loss carryforward as discussed in Note 11. Exploration and Production segment goodwill of $21 million was allocated to the Russian assets and reduced the reported gain. The final adjustment to the sales price is expected to be made in 2007 and could affect the reported gain.
        The activities of the Russian businesses have been reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income and the consolidated statements of cash flows for all periods presented. Revenues applicable to discontinued operations were $173 million, $325 million and $133 million for 2006, 2005, and 2004. Pretax income from discontinued operations was $45 million and $61 million for 2006 and 2005. There was a pretax loss from discontinued operations of $45 million in 2004.
F-19
8. Income per Common Share
        Basic income per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted income per share assumes exercise of stock options, provided the effect is not antidilutive.
9. Segment Information
        Revenues by product line were:
        Matching buy/sell transactions by product line included above were:
        Effective January 1, 2006, Marathon revised its measure of segment income to include the effects of minority interests and income taxes related to the segments to facilitate comparison of segment results with Marathon's peers. In addition, the results of activities primarily associated with the marketing of the Company's equity natural gas production, which had been presented as part of the IG segment prior to 2006, are now included in the E&P segment as those activities are aligned with E&P operations. Segment information for all periods presented reflects these changes.
        As discussed in Note 7, the Russian businesses that were sold in June 2006 have been accounted for as discontinued operations. Segment information for all presented periods excludes the amounts for these Russian operations.
F-20
(a)
Management believes intersegment transactions were conducted under terms comparable to those with unrelated parties.
(b)
Differences between segment totals and Marathon totals represent amounts related to corporate administrative activities and other unallocated items and are included in Items not allocated to segments, net of income taxes in the reconciliation below.
(c)
Differences between segment totals and Marathon totals represent amounts related to corporate administrative activities.
F-21
        The following reconciles segment income to net income as reported in the consolidated statements of income.
(a)
Other deferred tax adjustments in 2006 represent a benefit recorded for cumulative income tax basis differences associated with prior periods.
        The following summarizes revenues from external customers by geographic area.
        The following summarizes certain long-lived assets by geographic area, including property, plant and equipment and investments.
10. Other Items
Net interest and other financing costs (income)
  
(a)
Excludes $33 million, $34 million and $40 million paid by United States Steel in 2006, 2005 and 2004 on assumed debt.
Foreign currency transactions
    Aggregate foreign currency gains (losses) were included in the consolidated statements of income as follows:
F-22
11. Income Taxes
        Income tax provisions (benefits) were:
        A reconciliation of the federal statutory tax rate (35 percent) applied to income from continuing operations before income taxes to the provision for income taxes follows:
(a)
In 2006, Marathon resumed operations in Libya where the statutory income tax rate is in excess of 90 percent.
(b)
See Note 2 regarding Marathon's adoption of FSP No. FAS 109-1. Marathon has treated the deduction, equal to 3 percent of "qualified production activities income" under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as a special deduction beginning in 2005.
(c)
The 2006 adjustment of prior years' federal income taxes is primarily related to a $93 million credit recorded in the fourth quarter of 2006 as a result of a deferred tax analysis of the tax consequences attributable to prior years' differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
        Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulted from the following:
(a)
Capital loss carryforwards were utilized in conjunction with the sale of Marathon's Russian oil exploration and production businesses in June 2006 as discussed in Note 7. The reversal of the related valuation allowance reduced income taxes attributable to discontinued operations by $79 million.
(b)
For 2006, foreign operating loss carryforwards primarily include $684 million for Norway regular income tax, $1.006 billion for Norway special petroleum tax and $250 million for Angola income tax. The Norway and Angola operating loss carryforwards have no expiration dates. The remainder of foreign carryforwards are in several other foreign jurisdictions and expire in 2007 through 2019. State operating loss carryforwards of $1.352 billion expire in 2007 through 2021. The state operating loss carryforwards primarily relate the period prior to the Separation and are offset by valuation allowances.
(c)
Marathon expects to generate sufficient future taxable income to realize these credits. The ability to realize the benefit of foreign tax credits is based on certain assumptions concerning future operating conditions (particularly as related to prevailing commodity prices), income generated from foreign sources and Marathon's tax profile in the years that such credits may be claimed.
(d)
Federal valuation allowances increased by $63 million in 2005 and decreased by $10 million in 2004. The 2005 increase reflected valuation allowances established for deferred tax assets generated in 2005, primarily related to Marathon's re-entry into Libya of $38 million and excess capital losses related to certain derivative instruments and an asset sale of $30 million.
(e)
Foreign valuation allowances increased by $176 million, $70 million and $82 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004 primarily as a result of net operating loss carryforwards generated in those years in Norway, Angola and several other jurisdictions.
F-23
        Net deferred tax liabilities were classified in the consolidated balance sheet as follows:
        Marathon is continuously undergoing examination of its federal income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service. Audits of the Company's 1998 through 2003 income tax returns have been completed and agreed upon by all parties. A $46 million refund was received from the 1998 through 2001 audit, $35 million of which was paid to United States Steel in accordance with the tax sharing agreement discussed in Note 3. The audit for tax years 2004 and 2005 commenced in May 2006. Marathon believes it has made adequate provision for federal income taxes and interest which may become payable for years not yet settled. Further, the Company is routinely involved in state and local income tax audits and foreign jurisdiction tax audits. Marathon believes all other audits will be resolved within the amounts paid and/or provided for these liabilities.
        Pretax income from continuing operations included amounts attributable to foreign sources of $3.570 billion in 2006, $1.061 billion in 2005 and $579 million in 2004.
        Undistributed income of certain consolidated foreign subsidiaries at December 31, 2006 amounted to $1.581 billion for which no deferred U.S. income tax provision has been made because Marathon intends to permanently reinvest such income in those foreign operations. If such income was not permanently reinvested, a tax expense of $554 million would have been incurred.
12. Business Transformation
        During 2003, Marathon implemented an organizational realignment plan that included streamlining Marathon's business processes and services, realigning reporting relationships to reduce costs across all organizations, consolidating organizations in Houston, Texas and reducing the workforce. During 2004, Marathon entered into two outsourcing agreements to achieve further business process improvements and cost reductions.
        During 2004, Marathon recorded $43 million of costs as general and administrative expenses related to these business transformation programs. These charges included employee severance and benefit costs, relocation costs and net benefit plans settlement and curtailment losses.
        There were minimal charges to expense during 2005. As of December 31, 2005, no accrual remained related to the business transformation programs. The following table sets forth the significant components and activity in the business transformation programs during 2004.
13. Inventories
        The LIFO method accounted for 90 percent and 92 percent of total inventory value at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Current acquisition costs were estimated to exceed the LIFO inventory values at December 31, 2006 and 2005 by $1.682 billion and $1.535 billion.
F-24
14. Investments and Long-Term Receivables
        Summarized financial information of investees accounted for by the equity method of accounting follows:
        Marathon's carrying value of its equity method investments is $250 million higher than the underlying net assets of investees. This basis difference is being amortized into net income over the remaining useful lives of the underlying net assets except for $144 million of the excess related to goodwill.
        Dividends and partnership distributions received from equity method investees (excluding distributions that represented a return of capital previously contributed) were $191 million in 2006, $200 million in 2005 and $152 million in 2004.
15. Property, Plant and Equipment
        Property, plant and equipment includes gross assets acquired under capital leases of $79 million and $78 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, with related amounts in accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization of $10 million and $6 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005.
F-25
        Deferred exploratory well costs were as follows:
        Exploratory well costs capitalized greater than one year after completion of drilling as of December 31, 2006 included $46 million for the Ozona prospect that was primarily incurred in 2001 and 2002, $17 million for the Flathead prospect that was primarily incurred in 2001 and $30 million related to wells in Equatorial Guinea (primarily Corona and Gardenia) that was primarily incurred in 2004. Both Ozona and Flathead are located in the Gulf of Mexico.
        Marathon is continuing to evaluate options to develop the Ozona Prospect. Commercial terms were secured in 2005 after protracted negotiations with offset operators to allow this sub-sea well to be tied back to existing oil and gas infrastructure. A sidetrack well was planned for 2006; however, a deepwater rig could not be obtained due to a partner disposition of interest in the prospect and a shortage of deepwater rigs resulting from hurricane damage in 2005 and increased deepwater drilling activity. During 2006, Marathon continued its efforts to advance the Ozona Prospect by reprocessing existing seismic data to optimize the next well location. Marathon has also continued to actively search for rig availability.
        Technical evaluations are complete on the Flathead Prospect and commercial evaluations continued in 2006. The drilling of this prospect is delayed due to the shortage of available deepwater rigs. Marathon continues to pursue partnering opportunities with other oil and gas companies with deepwater rigs under contract that will ultimately result in a well being drilled by 2008.
        The Equatorial Guinea discovery wells will be part of Marathon's long-term LNG sales strategy. These resources will be developed when the natural gas supply from the nearby Alba Fields starts to decline or additional LNG markets are obtained that require increased natural gas supply.
        The net changes in deferred exploratory well costs were as follows:
F-26
16. Goodwill
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, were as follows:
(a)
Reflects adjustments related to additional consideration payable and prior period income tax adjustments.
(b)
Exploration and Production segment goodwill allocated to the Russian businesses that were sold in June 2006 as discussed in Note 7.
        The E&P segment tests goodwill for impairment in the second quarter of each year. The RM&T segment tests goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of each year. No impairment in the carrying value of goodwill has been identified.
17. Intangible Assets
Intangible assets were as follows:
        Amortization expense related to intangibles during 2006, 2005 and 2004 totaled $19 million, $16 million and $7 million. Estimated amortization expense for the years 2007-2011 is $16 million, $14 million, $13 million, $12 million and $10 million.
F-27
18. Derivative Instruments
The following table sets forth quantitative information by category of derivative instrument at December 31, 2006 and 2005. These amounts are reported on a gross basis by individual derivative instrument.
(a)
The fair value and carrying value of a derivative instrument are the same. The fair values for OTC commodity positions are determined using option-pricing models or dealer quotes. The fair values of exchange-traded commodity positions are based on market quotes derived from major exchanges. The fair values of interest rate and foreign currency swaps are based on dealer quotes. Marathon's consolidated balance sheet is reported on a net basis by brokerage firm, as permitted by master netting agreements.
(b)
There was no ineffectiveness associated with fair value hedges for 2006 or 2005 because the hedging instruments and the existing firm commitment contracts are priced on the same underlying index. Derivative instruments used in the fair value hedges mature between 2007 and 2008.
(c)
The contract price under the long-term U.K. natural gas contracts is reset annually and is indexed to a basket of costs of living and energy commodity indices for the previous twelve months. The fair value of these contracts is determined by applying the difference between the contract price and the U.K. forward gas strip price to the expected sales volumes under these contracts for the next 18 months. The 18-month period represents approximately 90 percent of market liquidity in that region.
(d)
Certain physical commodity contracts are classified as nontraditional derivative instruments because certain volumes covered by these contracts are physically netted at particular delivery locations. Additionally, other physical contracts that management has chosen not to designate as normal purchases or normal sales, which can include contracts that involve flash title, are accounted for as nontraditional derivative instruments.
(e)
The fair value of OTC interest rate swaps excludes accrued interest amounts not yet settled. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, accrued interest approximated $4 million and $3 million. The net fair value of the OTC interest rate swaps as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 is included in long-term debt. See Note 21.
(f)
The ineffective portion of the changes in fair value of cash flow hedges was $3 million during 2006 and less than $1 million during 2005 on a pretax basis. Of the unrealized gains and losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss as of December 31, 2006, a net gain of $2 million is expected to be reclassified to net income in 2007.
F-28
19. Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The fair value of the financial instruments disclosed herein is not necessarily representative of the amount that could be realized or settled, nor does the fair value amount consider the tax consequences of realization or settlement. The following table summarizes financial instruments, excluding derivative financial instruments disclosed in Note 18, by individual balance sheet line item. Marathon's financial instruments at December 31, 2006 and 2005 were:
(a)
Excludes equity method investments and derivatives.
(b)
Excludes capital leases.
        The fair value of financial instruments classified as current assets or liabilities approximates carrying value due to the short-term maturity of the instruments. The fair value of investments and long-term receivables was based on discounted cash flows or other specific instrument analysis. The fair value of long-term debt instruments was based on market prices where available or current borrowing rates available for financings with similar terms and maturities. The fair value of the receivables from United States Steel was estimated using market prices for United States Steel debt assuming the industrial revenue bonds are redeemed on or before the tenth anniversary of the Separation per the Financial Matters Agreement.
20. Short-Term Debt
Marathon has a commercial paper program that is supported by the unused and available credit on the Marathon five-year revolving credit facility discussed in Note 21. At December 31, 2006, there were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding.
        Additionally, as part of the Acquisition on June 30, 2005 discussed in Note 6, Marathon assumed $1.920 billion in debt which was repaid on July 1, 2005.
F-29
21. Long-Term Debt
(a)
In May 2006, Marathon entered into an amendment of its $1.5 billion five-year revolving credit agreement, expanding the size of the facility to $2 billion and extending the termination date from May 2009 to May 2011. The facility requires a representation at an initial borrowing that there has been no change in Marathon's consolidated financial position or operations, considered as a whole, that would materially and adversely affect its ability to perform its obligations under the revolving credit facility. Interest on the facility is based on defined short-term market rates. During the term of the agreement, Marathon is obligated to pay a variable facility fee on the total commitment, which at December 31, 2006 was 0.08 percent. At December 31, 2006, there were no borrowings outstanding under this facility.
(b)
These notes contain a make-whole provision allowing Marathon the right to repay the debt at a premium to market price.
(c)
During 2006, Marathon extinguished portions of this debt. Debt with a total face value of $162 million was repurchased at a weighted average price equal to 122 percent of face value. The total premium of $35 million is reflected as loss on early extinguishment of debt in the consolidated statement of income for 2006.
(d)
United States Steel has assumed responsibility for repayment of $415 million of these obligations. The Financial Matters Agreement provides that, on or before the tenth anniversary of the Separation, United States Steel will provide for Marathon's dischage from any remaining liability under any of the assumed industrial revenue bonds.
(e)
This sale-leaseback financing arrangement relates to a lease of a slab caster at United States Steel's Fairfield Works facility in Alabama. Marathon is the primary obligor under this lease. Under the Financial Matters Agreement, United States Steel has assumed responsibility for all obligations under this lease. This lease is an amortizing financing with a final maturity of 2012, subject to additional extensions.
(f)
This obligation relates to a lease of equipment at United States Steel's Clairton Works cokemaking facility in Pennsylvania. Marathon is the primary obligor under this lease. Under the Financial Matters Agreement, United States Steel has assumed responsibility for all obligations under this lease. This lease is an amortizing financing with a final maturity of 2012.
(g)
MPC's $500 million five-year revolving credit agreement was terminated concurrent with the May 2006 amendment of Marathon's revolving credit facility.
(h)
Required payments of long-term debt for the years 2008-2011 are $417 million, $19 million, $21 million and $164 million. Of these amounts, payments assumed by United States Steel are $14 million, $15 million, $17 million and $161 million.
(i)
In the event of a change in control of Marathon, as defined in the related agreements, debt obligations totaling $1.183 billion at December 31, 2006, may be declared immediately due and payable.
(j)
See Note 18 for information on interest rate swaps.
         In 2006, Marathon entered into a loan agreement which provides for borrowings of up to $525 million from the Norwegian export credit agency based upon the amount of qualifying purchases by Marathon of goods and services from Norwegian suppliers. The loan agreement allows Marathon to select either a fixed or LIBOR-based floating interest rate at the time of the initial drawdown and a five-year or eight and one half-year repayment term. If Marathon elects to borrow under this agreement, the initial drawdown must occur in June 2007 with one subsequent drawdown allowed in December 2007.
F-30
22. MPC Receivables Purchase and Sale Facility
On July 1, 2005, MPC entered into a $200 million, three-year Receivables Purchase and Sale Agreement with certain purchasers. The program was structured to allow MPC to periodically sell a participating interest in pools of eligible accounts receivable. During 2006, the facility was terminated. No receivables were sold under the agreement during its term.
23. Supplemental Cash Flow Information
24. Defined Benefit and Other Postretirement Plans
Marathon has noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all domestic employees as well as international employees located in Ireland, Norway and the United Kingdom. Benefits under these plans are based primarily on years of service and final average pensionable earnings. Marathon adopted SFAS No. 158, which applies to such plans, prospectively as of December 31, 2006.
        Marathon also has defined benefit plans for other postretirement benefits covering most employees. Health care benefits are provided through comprehensive hospital, surgical and major medical benefit provisions subject to various cost sharing features. Life insurance benefits are provided to certain nonunion and union-represented retiree beneficiaries. Other postretirement benefits have not been funded in advance.
F-31
Obligations and funded status
    The following summarizes the obligations and funded status for Marathon's defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans:
(a)
Includes the impact of an increase in the discount rate to 5.80 percent from 5.50 percent and demographic assumption changes, which decreased the obligation by $112 million.
(b)
Includes the impact of decreasing the retirement age assumption by two years and increasing the lump sum election rate assumption from 90 percent to 96 percent based on changing trends in Marathon's experience, which increased the obligation by $109 million.
(c)
Includes the impact of plan design changes related to the update of the mortality table used in the plans' definition of actuarial equivalence and lump sum calculations and a 20 percent retiree cost of living adjustment for annuitants.
(d)
Includes the addition of certain employees of the maleic anhydride business acquired as part of the Acquisition.
(e)
Benefits paid include the $3 million Medicare Subsidy received.
(f)
Excludes amounts related to LOOP LLC, an equity method investee with defined benefit pension and postretirement plans for which a net loss of $6 million is reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income as a result of adopting SFAS No. 158 as of December 31, 2006, reflecting Marathon's 51 percent share.
         The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $1.912 billion and $1.748 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Marathon's international subsidiaries do not sponsor any defined benefit postretirement plans other than pension plans.
        The following summarizes all of Marathon's defined benefit pension plans that have accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets.
F-32
        On June 30, 2005, as a result of the Acquisition, MPC's defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan obligations were remeasured using current discount rates and plan assumptions. The discount rate was decreased to 5.25 percent from 5.75 percent. As part of the application of the purchase method of accounting, MPC recognized 38 percent of its unrecognized net transition gain, prior service costs and actuarial losses related to its defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. As a result, obligations related to the defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans increased by $264 million and $28 million.
Components of net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income
    The following summarizes the net periodic benefit costs and the amounts recognized as other comprehensive income for Marathon's defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
(a)
Includes business transformation costs.
        The estimated net loss and prior service cost for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost in 2007 are $21 million and $13 million. The estimated net loss and prior service credit for the other defined benefit postretirement plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost in 2007 are $11 million and $10 million.
Plan assumptions
    The following summarizes the assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and net periodic benefit cost for Marathon's defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
(a)
On July 31, 2006, due to an interim remeasurement, the discount rate for the U.S. pension plans was increased to 6.00 percent from 5.50 percent. Also, on June 30, 2005 due to the Acquisition, the discount rate for the MPC pension plan was decreased to 5.25 percent from 5.75 percent.
F-33
Expected long-term return on plan assets
        
U.S. Plans 
Historical markets are studied and long-term historical relationships between equities and fixed income securities are preserved consistent with the widely accepted capital market principle that assets with higher volatility generate a greater return over the long term. Certain components of the asset mix are modeled with various assumptions regarding inflation, debt returns and stock yields. The assumptions are compared to those of peer companies and to historical returns for reasonableness and appropriateness.
        
International Plans 
The overall expected long-term return on plan assets is derived using the expected returns on the individual asset classes, weighted by holdings as of year end. The long-term rate of return on equity investments is assumed to be 2.5 percent greater than the yield on local government bonds. Expected returns on debt securities are estimated directly at market yields and on cash are estimated at the local currency base rate.
Assumed health care cost trend 
 The following summarizes the assumed health care cost trend rates.
(a)
Prior to 2006, the assumed cost trend rate and the year that it would reach the ultimate trend rate for prescription drugs were the same as those for other medical costs.
        Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for defined benefit retiree health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
Plan assets
    The following summarizes the defined benefit pension plans' weighted-average asset allocations by asset category.
Plan investment policies and strategies
        
U.S. Plans 
The investment policy reflects the funded status of the plans and Marathon's future ability to make further contributions. Historical performance and future expectations suggest that common stocks will provide higher total investment returns than fixed-income securities over a long-term investment horizon. As a result, equity investments will likely continue to exceed 50 percent of the value of the fund. Accordingly, bond and other fixed-income investments will comprise the remainder of the fund. Short-term investments shall reflect the liquidity requirements for making pension payments. The plans' targeted asset allocation is comprised of 75 percent equity securities and 25 percent fixed-income and real estate-related securities. Management of the plans' assets is delegated to the United States Steel and Carnegie Pension Fund. The fund manager has limited discretion to move away from the target allocations based upon the manager's judgment as to current confidence or concern for the capital markets. Investments are diversified by industry and type, limited by grade and maturity. The policy prohibits investments in any securities in the steel industry and allows derivatives subject to strict guidelines, such that derivatives may only be written against equity securities in the portfolio. Investment performance and risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through quarterly investment meetings and periodic asset and liability studies.
        
International Plans 
The objective of the investment policy is to achieve a long-term return which is consistent with assumptions made by the actuary in determining the funding requirements of the plans. The target asset allocation is approximately 75 percent equity securities and 25 percent debt securities. The day-to-day management of
F-34
the plans' assets is delegated to several professional investment managers. The spread of assets by type and the investment managers' policies on investing in individual securities within each type provide adequate diversification of investments. The use of derivatives by the investment managers is permitted and plan specific, subject to strict guidelines. Investment performance and risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies.
Cash flows
        
Plan Contributions 
Marathon expects to make contributions to the Company's funded pension plans of approximately $50 million in 2007. Cash contributions to be paid from the general assets of the Company for the unfunded pension and postretirement benefit plans are expected to be approximately $8 million and $41 million in 2007.
        
Estimated Future Benefit Payments 
The following gross benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid in the years indicated:
(a)
Expected Medicare reimbursements for 2007 through 2016 total $64 million.
        
Other Plan Contributions
  Marathon also contributes to several defined contribution plans for eligible employees. Contributions to these plans totaled $47 million in 2006, $39 million in 2005 and $35 million in 2004.
25. Asset Retirement Obligations
The following summarizes the changes in asset retirement obligations:
26. Stock-Based Compensation Plans
Description of the plans
    The Marathon Oil Corporation 2003 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") authorizes the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors to grant stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards, cash awards and performance awards to employees. The Plan also allows Marathon to provide equity compensation to its non-employee directors. No more than 40,000,000 shares of common stock may be issued under the Plan, and no more than 17,000,000 of those shares may be used for awards other than stock options or stock appreciation rights. Shares subject to awards that are forfeited, terminated, settled in cash, exchanged for other awards, tendered to satisfy the purchase price of an award or withheld to satisfy tax obligations or that expire unexercised or otherwise lapse become available for future grants. Shares issued as a result of awards granted under the Plan are generally funded out of common stock held in treasury, except to the extent there are insufficient treasury shares, in which case new common shares are issued.
        The Plan replaced the 1990 Stock Plan, the Non-Officer Restricted Stock Plan, the Non-Employee Director Stock Plan, the deferred stock benefit provision of the Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, the Senior Executive Officer Annual Incentive Compensation Plan and the Annual Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Prior Plans"). No new grants will be made from the Prior Plans. Any awards previously granted under the Prior Plans shall continue to vest and/or be exercisable in accordance with their original terms and conditions.
Stock-based awards under the Plan
        
Stock options
  Marathon grants stock options under the Plan. Marathon's stock options represent the right to purchase shares of common stock at the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant. Through 2004, certain options were granted with a tandem stock appreciation right, which allows the recipient to instead elect to receive cash and/or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of shares of common stock, as determined in accordance with the Plan, over the option price of the shares. Most stock options granted under the Plan vest ratably over a three-year period and have a maximum term of ten years from the date they are granted.
F-35
        
Stock appreciation rights
  Prior to 2005, Marathon granted SARs under the Plan. Similar to stock options, stock appreciation rights represent the right to receive a payment equal to the excess of the fair market value of shares of common stock on the date the right is exercised over the grant price. Certain SARs were granted as stock-settled SARs and others were granted in tandem with stock options. In general, SARs that have been granted under the Plan vest ratably over a three-year period and have a maximum term of ten years from the date they are granted.
        
Stock-based performance awards
  In 2003 and 2004, the Compensation Committee granted stock-based performance awards to certain officers of Marathon and its consolidated subsidiaries under the Plan. Beginning in 2005, Marathon discontinued granting stock-based performance awards and instead grants cash-settled performance units to officers. The stock-based performance awards represent shares of common stock that are subject to forfeiture provisions and restrictions on transfer. Those restrictions may be removed if certain pre-established performance measures are met. The stock-based performance awards granted under the Plan will vest at the end of a 36-month performance period to the extent that the performance targets are achieved and the recipient is employed by Marathon on that date. Additional shares could be granted at the end of this performance period should performance exceed the targets. Prior to vesting, the recipients have the right to vote and receive dividends on the target number of shares awarded. However, the shares are not transferable until after they vest.
        
Restricted stock 
Marathon grants restricted stock and restricted stock units under the Plan. In 2005, the Compensation Committee began granting time-based restricted stock to officers as part of their annual long-term incentive package. The restricted stock awards to officers vest three years from the date of grant, contingent on the recipient's continued employment. Marathon also grants restricted stock to certain non-officer employees and restricted stock units to certain international non-officer employees (together with the restricted stock granted to officers above, "restricted stock awards") based on their performance within certain guidelines and for retention purposes. The restricted stock awards to non-officers generally vest in one-third increments over a three-year period, contingent on the recipient's continued employment. Prior to vesting, all restricted stock recipients have the right to vote such stock and receive dividends thereon. The non-vested shares are not transferable and are held by the Company's transfer agent.
        
Common stock units 
Marathon maintains an equity compensation program for its non-employee directors under the Plan. All non-employee directors other than the Chairman receive annual grants of common stock units under the Plan and they are required to hold those units until they leave the Board of Directors. When dividends are paid on Marathon common stock, directors receive dividend equivalents in the form of additional common stock units. Prior to January 1, 2006, non-employee directors had the opportunity to receive a matching grant of up to 1,000 shares of common stock if they purchased an equivalent number of shares within 60 days of joining the Board.
Stock-based compensation expense
    Total employee stock-based compensation expense was $83 million, $111 million and $61 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004. The total related income tax benefits were $31 million, $39 million and $22 million. In 2006, cash received upon exercise of stock option awards was $50 million. Tax benefits realized for deductions during 2006 that were in excess of the stock-based compensation expense recorded for options exercised and other stock-based awards vested during the period totaled $36 million. Cash settlements of stock option awards totaled $3 million in 2006.
Stock option awards granted
    During 2006, 2005 and 2004, Marathon granted stock option awards to both officer and non-officer employees. The weighted average grant date fair values of these awards were based on the following Black-Scholes assumptions:
F-36
Outstanding stock-based awards 
 The following is a summary of stock option award activity.
(a)
Of the stock option awards outstanding as of December 31, 2006, 10,152,370 and 838,620 were outstanding under the 2003 Incentive Compensation Plan and 1990 Stock Plan, including 979,382 stock options with tandem SARs.
        The intrinsic value of stock option awards exercised during 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $107 million, $90 million and $27 million. Of those amounts, $32 million, $61 million and $19 million relate to stock options with tandem SARs.
        The following table presents information on stock option awards at December 31, 2006:
        As of December 31, 2006, the aggregate intrinsic value of stock option awards outstanding was $237 million. The aggregate intrinsic value and weighted average remaining contractual life of stock option awards currently exercisable were $122 million and 7 years. As of December 31, 2006, the number of fully-vested stock option awards and stock option awards expected to vest was 10,123,612. The weighted average exercise price and weighted average remaining contractual life of these stock option awards were $24.26 and 8 years and the aggregate intrinsic value was $223 million. As of December 31, 2006, unrecognized compensation cost related to stock option awards was $32 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2 years.
        The following is a summary of stock-based performance award and restricted stock award activity.
(a)
Additional shares were issued in 2006 because the performance targets were exceeded for the 36-month performance period related to the 2003 grant.
        During 2006, 2005 and 2004 the weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock awards was $40.45, $27.21 and $18.28. During 2004, the weighted average grant date fair value of stock-based performance awards was $16.81. The vesting date fair value of stock-based performance awards which vested during 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $21 million, $5 million and $4 million. The vesting date fair value of restricted stock awards which vested during 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $32 million, $13 million and $7 million.
        As of December 31, 2006, there was $29 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock-based performance awards and restricted stock awards which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of two years.
F-37
27. Stock Repurchase Program
On January 29, 2006, Marathon's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2 billion of common stock. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had acquired 41.4 million common shares at a cost of $1.698 billion. On January 28, 2007, Marathon's Board of Directors authorized an extension of the share repurchase program by an additional $500 million. Purchases under the program may be in either open market transactions, including block purchases, or in privately negotiated transactions. The Company will use cash on hand, cash generated from operations or cash from available borrowings to acquire shares. This program may be changed based upon our financial condition or changes in market conditions and is subject to termination prior to completion.
28. Leases
Marathon leases a wide variety of facilities and equipment under operating leases, including land and building space, office equipment, production facilities and transportation equipment. Most long-term leases include renewal options and, in certain leases, purchase options. Future minimum commitments for capital lease obligations (including sale-leasebacks accounted for as financings) and for operating lease obligations having remaining noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year are as follows:
        In connection with past sales of various plants and operations, Marathon assigned and the purchasers assumed certain leases of major equipment used in the divested plants and operations of United States Steel. In the event of a default by any of the purchasers, United States Steel has assumed these obligations; however, Marathon remains primarily obligated for payments under these leases. Minimum lease payments under these operating lease obligations of $31 million have been included above and an equal amount has been reported as sublease rentals.
        Of the $163 million present value of net minimum capital lease payments, $104 million was related to obligations assumed by United States Steel under the Financial Matters Agreement. Of the $851 million total minimum operating lease payments, $3 million was assumed by United States Steel under the Financial Matters Agreement.
        Operating lease rental expense was:
(a)
Excludes $9 million, $10 million and $11 million paid by United States Steel in 2006, 2005 and 2004 on assumed leases.
F-38
29. Sale of Minority Interests in EGHoldings
In connection with the formation of Equatorial Guinea LNG Holdings Limited, GEPetrol was given certain contractual rights that gave GEPetrol the option to purchase and resell a 13 percent interest in EGHoldings held by Marathon to a third party. On July 25, 2005, GEPetrol exercised these rights and reimbursed Marathon for its actual costs incurred up to the date of closing, plus an additional specified rate of return. Marathon and GEPetrol entered into agreements under which Mitsui and a subsidiary of Marubeni acquired 8.5 percent and 6.5 percent interests in EGHoldings. As part of these agreements, Marathon sold a 2 percent interest in EGHoldings to Mitsui for its actual costs incurred up to the date of closing, plus a specified rate of return, as well as a premium and future consideration based upon the performance of EGHoldings. Following the transaction, Marathon held a 60 percent interest in EGHoldings, GEPetrol held a 25 percent interest and Mitsui and Marubeni held the remaining interests.
        During 2005, Marathon received net proceeds of $163 million in connection with the transactions and recorded a gain, which is included in other income.
30. Contingencies and Commitments
Marathon is the subject of, or party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are discussed below. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to Marathon's consolidated financial statements. However, management believes that Marathon will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably.
Environmental matters
    Marathon is subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the environment. These laws generally provide for control of pollutants released into the environment and require responsible parties to undertake remediation of hazardous waste disposal sites. Penalties may be imposed for noncompliance. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, accrued liabilities for remediation totaled $101 million and $103 million. It is not presently possible to estimate the ultimate amount of all remediation costs that might be incurred or the penalties that may be imposed. Receivables for recoverable costs from certain states, under programs to assist companies in cleanup efforts related to underground storage tanks at retail marketing outlets, were $66 million and $68 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005.
        On May 11, 2001, MPC entered into a consent decree with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency which commits it to complete certain agreed upon environmental projects over an eight-year period primarily aimed at reducing air emissions at its seven refineries. The court approved this consent decree on August 28, 2001. The total one-time expenditures for these environmental projects are estimated to be approximately $425 million over the eight-year period, with about $365 million incurred through December 31, 2006. In addition, MPC has been working on certain agreed upon supplemental environmental projects as part of this settlement of an enforcement action for alleged CAA violations and these have been substantially completed.
F-39
Guarantees
    Marathon has issued the following guarantees:
(a)
Marathon holds interests in an offshore oil port, LOOP LLC ("LOOP"), and a crude oil pipeline system, LOCAP LLC ("LOCAP"). Both LOOP and LOCAP have secured various project financings with throughput and deficiency agreements. Under the agreements, Marathon is required to advance funds if the investees are unable to service debt. Any such advances are considered prepayments of future transportation charges. The terms of the agreements vary but tend to follow the terms of the underlying debt. Included in the underlying debt are a LOOP revolving credit facility of $25 million and a LOCAP revolving credit facility of $23 million.
(b)
Marathon holds an interest in a refined products pipeline, Centennial Pipeline LLC ("Centennial"), and has guaranteed the repayment of Centennial's outstanding balance under a Master Shelf Agreement, which expires in 2024, and a Credit Agreement, which expires in 2007. The guarantees arose in order to obtain adequate financing. Prior to expiration of the Master Shelf Agreement, Marathon could be relinquished from responsibility under the guarantee should Centennial meet certain financial tests.
(c)
In conjunction with the sale of its Russian businesses as discussed in Note 7, Marathon guaranteed the purchaser with regard to unknown obligations and inaccuracies in representations, warranties, covenants and agreements by Marathon. These indemnifications are part of the normal course of selling assets. Under the agreement, the maximum potential amount of future payments associated with these guarantees is equivalent to the proceeds from the sale.
(d)
In 2003, Marathon sold its interest in the Yates field and gathering system. In accordance with this transaction, Marathon indemnified the purchaser from inaccuracies in Marathon's representations, warranties, covenants and agreements.
(e)
In conjunction with the sale of certain Canadian assets during 2003, Marathon guaranteed the purchaser with regards to unknown environmental obligations and inaccuracies in Marathon's representations, warranties, covenants and agreements.
(f)
Marathon entered into certain performance and general guarantees and environmental and general indemnifications in connection with certain asset sales.
(g)
United States Steel is the sole general partner of Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P., which owns certain cokemaking facilities formerly owned by United States Steel. Marathon has guaranteed to the limited partners all obligations of United States Steel under the partnership documents. In addition to the commitment to fund operating cash shortfalls of the partnership discussed in Note 3, United States Steel, under certain circumstances, is required to indemnify the limited partners if the partnership's product sales fail to qualify for the credit under Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code. United States Steel has estimated the maximum potential amount of this indemnity obligation, including interest and tax gross-up, was approximately $680 million. Furthermore, United States Steel under certain circumstances has indemnified the partnership for environmental obligations.
(h)
The agreement between Centennial and its members allows each member to contribute cash in lieu of Centennial procuring separate insurance in the event of third-party liability arising from a catastrophic event. Each member is to contribute cash in proportion to its ownership interest.
(i)
Marathon is a party to a long-term transportation services agreement with Alliance Pipeline L.P. ("Alliance"). The agreement requires Marathon to pay minimum annual charges of approximately $7 million through 2015. The payments are required even if the transportation facility is not utilized. This contract has been used by Alliance to secure its financing. As a result of the Canadian asset sale discussed above, Husky has indemnified Marathon for any claims related to these guarantees.
(j)
Marathon is an equity investor in Kenai Kachemak Pipeline LLC ("KKPL"), holding a 60 percent, noncontrolling interest. In April 2003, Marathon guaranteed KKPL's performance to properly construct, operate, maintain and abandon the pipeline in accordance with the Alaska Pipeline Act and the Right of Way Lease Agreement with the State of Alaska. The major obligations covered under the guarantee include maintaining the right-of-way, satisfying any liabilities caused by operation of the pipeline, and providing for the abandonment costs. Obligations that could arise under the guarantee would vary according to the circumstances triggering payment.
(k)
Marathon has entered into leases of corporate assets containing general lease indemnities and guaranteed residual value clauses.
Contract commitments
    At December 31, 2006 and 2005, Marathon's contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $1.703 billion and $668 million. The $1.035 billion increase is primarily due to commitments related to the Garyville refinery expansion.
Agreements with joint owners
    As part of the formation of PTC, MPC and Pilot Corporation ("Pilot") entered into a Put/Call and Registration Rights Agreement (the "Agreement"). The Agreement provides that any time after
F-40
September 1, 2008, Pilot will have the right to sell its interest in PTC to MPC for an amount of cash and/or Marathon, MPC or Ashland equity securities equal to the product of 90 percent (95 percent if paid in securities) of the fair market value of PTC at the time multiplied by Pilot's percentage interest in PTC. At any time after September 1, 2011, under certain conditions, MPC will have the right to purchase Pilot's interest in PTC for an amount of cash and/or Marathon, MPC or Ashland equity securities equal to the product of 105 percent (110 percent if paid in securities) of the fair market value of PTC at the time multiplied by Pilot's percentage interest in PTC. Under the Agreement, MPC would determine the form of consideration to be paid upon exercise of the rights.
Other contingencies
    In November 2006, the government of Equatorial Guinea enacted a new hydrocarbon law governing petroleum operations in Equatorial Guinea. The transitional provision of the law provides that all contractors and the terms of any contract to which they are a party will be subject to the law. The governmental agency responsible for the energy industry was given the authority to renegotiate any contract for the purpose of adapting any terms and conditions that are inconsistent with the new law. Marathon is in the process of determining what impact this law may have on its existing operations in Equatorial Guinea.
31. Subsequent Events
On April 25, 2007, Marathon's stockholders approved an increase in the number of authorized shares of common stock from 550 million to 1.1 billion shares, and the Company's Board of Directors subsequently declared a two-for-one split of the Company's common stock. The stock split was effected in the form of a stock dividend distributed on June 18, 2007, to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 23, 2007. Stockholders received one additional share of Marathon Oil Corporation common stock for each share of common stock held as of the close of business on the record date. In addition, shares of common stock issued or issuable for stock-based awards under Marathon's incentive compensation plans were proportionately increased in accordance with the terms of the plans. Common stock and per share (except par value) information for all periods presented has been restated in the consolidated financial statements and notes to reflect the stock split.
        In July 2007, Marathon entered an agreement to purchase Western Oil Sands Inc. ("Western"). Under the terms of the agreement, Western shareholders will receive cash of 3.808 billion Canadian dollars and 34.3 million shares of Marathon common stock and securities exchangeable for Marathon common stock. The agreement requires Western to spin off a wholly-owned subsidiary with interests in the Federal Region of Kurdistan in northern Iraq prior to closing. The transaction is contingent upon Western shareholder approval and applicable regulatory approvals and is anticipated to close in the fourth quarter of 2007.
        The stock repurchase program discussed in Note 27 was extended by $2 billion in July 2007, for a total authorized program of $5 billion. Purchases under the program may be in either open market transactions, including block purchases, or in privately negotiated transactions. The Company will use cash on hand, cash generated from operations, proceeds from potential asset sales or cash from available borrowings to acquire shares. This program may be changed based upon the Company's financial condition or changes in market conditions and is subject to termination prior to completion. The repurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables.
32. Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." This statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. It requires that unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected be recorded in net income. The statement also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. For Marathon, SFAS No. 159 will be effective January 1, 2008, and retrospective application is not permitted. Should Marathon elect to apply the fair value option to any eligible items that exist at January 1, 2008, the effect of the first remeasurement to fair value would be reported as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. Marathon is currently evaluating the provisions of this statement.
        In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements." This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements but may require some entities to change their measurement practices. For Marathon, SFAS No. 157 will be effective January 1, 2008, with early application permitted. Marathon is currently evaluating the provisions of this statement.
        In September 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. AUG AIR-1, "Accounting for Planned Major Maintenance Activities." This FSP prohibits the use of the accrue-in-advance method of accounting for planned major maintenance activities in annual and interim financial reporting periods. Marathon expenses such costs in the same annual period as incurred; however, estimated annual major maintenance costs are recognized as expense throughout the year on a pro rata basis. As such, adoption of FSP No. AUG AIR-1 will have no impact on Marathon's annual consolidated financial statements. Marathon is required to adopt the FSP effective January 1, 2007. Marathon does not
F-41
believe the provisions of FSP No. AUG AIR-1 will have a significant impact on its interim consolidated financial statements.
        In July 2006, the FASB issued FIN No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109." FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." FIN No. 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The new standard also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, transition and disclosure. For Marathon, the provisions of FIN No. 48 are effective January 1, 2007. Marathon does not believe adoption of this statement will have a significant effect on its consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
        In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, "Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets  An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 140." This statement amends SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities," with respect to the accounting for separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities. Marathon is required to adopt SFAS No. 156 effective January 1, 2007. Marathon does not expect adoption of this statement to have a significant effect on its consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
        In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, "Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140." SFAS No. 155 simplifies the accounting for certain hybrid financial instruments, eliminates the interim FASB guidance which provides that beneficial interests in securitized financial assets are not subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," and eliminates the restriction on the passive derivative instruments that a qualifying special-purpose entity may hold. For Marathon, SFAS No. 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued on or after January 1, 2007. Marathon does not expect adoption of this statement to have a significant effect on its consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
F-42
Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
(a)
Prices are based on the composite tape for the indicated periods and have not been adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split on June 18, 2007.
Principal Unconsolidated Investees (Unaudited)
(a)
Represents a noncontrolling interest.
F-43
Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)
        The supplementary information is disclosed by the following geographic areas: the United States; Europe, which primarily includes activities in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Norway; Africa, which primarily includes activities in Angola, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and Libya; and Other International, which includes activities in Canada, the Russian Federation and other international locations outside of Europe and Africa. Discontinued operations represent Marathon's Russian oil exploration and production businesses that were sold in 2006.
Capitalized Costs and Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization
(a)
(a)
Includes capitalized asset retirement costs and the associated accumulated amortization.
Costs Incurred for Property Acquisition, Exploration and Development
(a)
(a)
Includes costs incurred whether capitalized or expensed.
(b)
Includes $12 million, $12 million and $8 million of costs incurred prior to assignment of proved reserves in 2006, 2005 and 2004. The associated reserves were awaiting full project sanction at the end of the applicable year.
(c)
Includes the effect of foreign currency fluctuations.
F-44
Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities
(a)
Excludes noncash effects of changes in the fair value of certain long-term natural gas sales contracts in the United Kingdom.
(b)
Includes net gains on asset dispositions.
(c)
Includes the cost to prepare and move liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas to their points of sale.
(d)
Includes revenues, net of associated costs, from activities that are an integral part of Marathon's production operations which may include processing and/or transportation of third-party production, the purchase and subsequent resale of natural gas utilized for reservoir management and providing storage capacity.
F-45
Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities
        The following reconciles results of continuing operations for oil and gas producing activities to E&P segment income:
Average Production Costs
(a)
(a)
Computed using production costs, excluding transportation costs, as disclosed in the Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities and as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Natural gas volumes were converted to barrels of oil equivalent using a conversion factor of six mcf of natural gas to one barrel of oil.
Average Realizations
(a)
Excludes the resale of purchased natural gas utilized for reservoir management.
F-46
Estimated Quantities of Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
        Estimates of the proved reserves have been prepared in-house teams of reservoir engineers and geoscience professionals. Reserve estimates are periodically reviewed by Marathon's Corporate Reserves Group to assure that rigorous professional standards and the reserves definitions prescribed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") are consistently applied throughout the Company.
        Proved reserves are the estimated quantities of oil and natural gas that geologic and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Estimates of proved reserves may change, either positively or negatively, as additional information becomes available and as contractual, economic and political conditions change.
        Marathon's net proved reserve estimates have been adjusted as necessary to reflect all contractual agreements, royalty obligations and interests owned by others at the time of the estimate. Only reserves that are estimated to be recovered during the term of the current contract have been included in the proved reserve estimate unless there is a clear and consistent history of contract extension. Reserves from properties governed by production sharing contracts have been calculated using the "economic interest" method prescribed by the SEC. Reserves that are not currently considered proved, such as those that may result from extensions of currently proved areas or that may result from applying secondary or tertiary recovery processes not yet tested and determined to be economic are excluded. Purchased natural gas utilized in reservoir management and subsequently resold is also excluded. Marathon does not have any quantities of oil and gas reserves subject to long-term supply agreements with foreign governments or authorities in which Marathon acts as producer.
        Proved developed reserves are the quantities of oil and gas expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. In some cases, proved undeveloped reserves may require substantial new investments in additional wells and related facilities. Production volumes shown are sales volumes, net of any products consumed during production activities.
F-47
Estimated Quantities of Proved Oil and Gas Reserves (continued)
(a)
Consists of estimated reserves from properties governed by production sharing contracts.
(b)
The net positive or negative balance of proved reserves acquired or relinquished in property trades within the same geographic area is reported as purchases of reserves in place or sales of reserves in place, respectively.
(c)
Excludes the resale of purchased gas utilized in reservoir management.
F-48
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows and Changes Therein Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
        
Future cash inflows
are computed by applying year-end prices of oil and natural gas relating to Marathon's proved reserves to the year-end quantities of those reserves. Future price changes are considered only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year-end.
        The assumptions used to compute the proved reserve valuation do not necessarily reflect Marathon's expectations of actual revenues to be derived from those reserves or their present worth. Assigning monetary values to the estimated quantities of reserves, described on the preceding page, does not reduce the subjective and ever-changing nature of such reserve estimates.
        Additional subjectivity occurs when determining present values because the rate of producing the reserves must be estimated. In addition to uncertainties inherent in predicting the future, variations from the expected production rate also could result directly or indirectly from factors outside of Marathon's control, such as unintentional delays in development, environmental concerns, changes in prices or regulatory controls.
        The reserve valuation assumes that all reserves will be disposed of by production. However, if reserves are sold in place or subjected to participation by foreign governments, additional economic considerations could also affect the amount of cash eventually realized.
        
Future production, transportation and administrative costs and development costs
are computed by estimating the expenditures to be incurred in developing and producing the proved oil and gas reserves at the end of the year, based on year-end costs and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions.
        
Future income tax expenses
are computed by applying the appropriate year-end statutory tax rates, with consideration of future tax rates already legislated, to the future pretax net cash flows relating to Marathon's proved oil and gas reserves. Oil and gas related tax credits and allowances are recognized.
        
Discount
was derived by using a discount rate of 10 percent annually.
F-49
Summary of Changes in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
F-50
Supplemental Statistics (Unaudited)
(a)
Amounts represent net sales after royalties, except for Ireland where amounts are before royalties.
(b)
Includes natural gas acquired for injection and subsequent resale of 46 mmcfd, 38 mmcfd and 19 mmcfd in 2006, 2005 and 2004. Effective July 1, 2005, the methodology for allocating sales volumes between natural gas produced from the Brae complex and third-party natural gas production was modified, resulting in an increase in volumes representing natural gas acquired for injection and subsequent resale.
(c)
Excludes gains and losses on traditional derivative instruments and the unrealized effects of long-term U.K. natural gas contracts that are accounted for as derivatives.
F-51
(a)
RM&T segment income for 2005 and 2004 is net of $376 million and $539 million pretax minority interest in MPC. RM&T capital expenditures include MPC at 100 percent for all periods.
(b)
Other deferred tax adjustments in 2006 represent a benefit recorded for cumulative income tax basis differences associated with prior periods.
(c)
Includes Equatorial Guinea LNG Holdings at 100 percent.
(d)
Total average daily volumes of refined product sales to wholesale, branded and retail (SSA) customers.
(e)
As a result of the change in accounting for matching buy/sell arrangements on April 1, 2006, the reported sales volumes will be lower than the volumes determined under the previous accounting practices. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
(f)
Sales revenue less cost of refinery inputs, purchased products and manufacturing expenses, including depreciation. As a result of the change in accounting for matching buy/sell transactions on April 1, 2006, the resulting per gallon statistic will be higher than the statistic that would have been calculated from amounts determined under previous accounting practices. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
F-52
QuickLinks
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Index to 2006 Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Management's Responsibilities for Financial Statements
Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Consolidated Statements of Income
Consolidated Balance Sheets
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
1. Summary of Principal Accounting Policies
2. New Accounting Standards
3. Information about United States Steel
4. Variable Interest Entities
5. Related Party Transactions
6. Acquisitions
7. Discontinued Operations
8. Income per Common Share
9. Segment Information
10. Other Items
11. Income Taxes
12. Business Transformation
13. Inventories
14. Investments and Long-Term Receivables
15. Property, Plant and Equipment
16. Goodwill
17. Intangible Assets
18. Derivative Instruments
19. Fair Value of Financial Instruments
20. Short-Term Debt
21. Long-Term Debt
22. MPC Receivables Purchase and Sale Facility
23. Supplemental Cash Flow Information
24. Defined Benefit and Other Postretirement Plans
25. Asset Retirement Obligations
26. Stock-Based Compensation Plans
27. Stock Repurchase Program
28. Leases
29. Sale of Minority Interests in EGHoldings
30. Contingencies and Commitments
31. Subsequent Events
32. Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted
Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
Principal Unconsolidated Investees (Unaudited)
Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities (Unaudited)
Capitalized Costs and Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization
(a)
Costs Incurred for Property Acquisition, Exploration and Development
(a)
Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities
Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities
Average Production Costs
(a)
Average Realizations
Estimated Quantities of Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
Estimated Quantities of Proved Oil and Gas Reserves (continued)
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows and Changes Therein Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
Summary of Changes in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
Supplemental Statistics (Unaudited)

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.2
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
        On April 25, 2007, Marathon's stockholders approved an increase in the number of authorized shares of common stock from 550 million to 1.1 billion shares, and our Board of Directors declared a two-for-one split of our common stock. The split was effected in the form of a stock dividend distributed on June 18, 2007, to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 23, 2007. Stockholders received one additional share of Marathon Oil Corporation common stock for each share of common stock held as of the close of business on the record date. The per share data below has been restated to reflect the stock split.
(a)
On June 30, 2005, Marathon acquired the 38 percent ownership interest in MPC previously held by Ashland, making it wholly-owned by Marathon. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
(b)
Effective April 1, 2006, Marathon changed its accounting for matching buy/sell transactions. This change had no effect on income from continuing operations or net income, but the revenues and cost of revenues recognized after April 1, 2006 are less than the amounts that would have been recognized under previous accounting practices. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
QuickLinks
Item 6. Selected Financial Data

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.3
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
        Marathon is engaged in worldwide exploration, production and marketing of crude oil and natural gas; domestic refining, marketing and transportation of crude oil and petroleum products, primarily in the Midwest, the upper Great Plains and southeastern United States; and worldwide marketing and transportation of products manufactured from natural gas, such as LNG and methanol, and development of other projects to link stranded natural gas resources with key demand areas. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with Item 1. Business, Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 6. Selected Financial Data and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
        Certain sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations include forward-looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting our business. These statements typically contain words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "targets," "plans," "projects," "could," "may," "should," "would" or similar words indicating that future outcomes are uncertain. In accordance with "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, which could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
        Unless specifically noted, amounts for the refining, marketing and transportation segment include the 38 percent interest in MPC held by Ashland prior to the Acquisition on June 30, 2005, and amounts for the integrated gas segment include the 25 percent interest held by SONAGAS (previously held by GEPetrol) in all periods and the 8.5 percent interest held by Mitsui and the 6.5 percent interest held by Marubeni since July 25, 2005.
        Effective January 1, 2006, we revised our measure of segment income to include the effects of minority interests and income taxes related to the segments. In addition, the results of activities primarily associated with the marketing of our equity natural gas production, which had been presented as part of the Integrated Gas segment prior to 2006, are now included in the Exploration and Production segment. Segment results for all periods presented reflect these changes.
Overview
Exploration and Production
        Exploration and production segment revenues correlate closely with prevailing prices for the various qualities of crude oil and natural gas we produce. The increase in our E&P segment revenues in 2006 is primarily related to increased production, particularly from Libya where the first liquid hydrocarbon sales occurred in the first quarter of 2006; however, our 2006 revenues also tracked the changes in market prices for commodities. Higher prices for crude oil early in 2006 reflected concerns about international supply due to unrest in oil-producing countries and the potential for hurricane damage in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. As hurricane season came to an end without a major storm in the Gulf of Mexico and in the absence of significant international supply shortfalls or disruptions, crude oil prices declined. The average spot price during 2006 for West Texas Intermediate ("WTI"), a benchmark crude oil, was $66.25 per barrel, up from an average of $56.70 in 2005, and ended the year at $61.05. The average differential between WTI and Brent (an international benchmark crude oil) narrowed to $1.07 in 2006 from $2.18 in 2005. Our domestic crude oil production is on average heavier and higher in sulfur content than light sweet WTI. Heavier and higher sulfur crude oil (commonly referred to as heavy sour crude oil) sells at a discount to light sweet crude oil. Our international crude oil production is relatively sweet and is generally sold in relation to the Brent crude benchmark.
        Natural gas prices were lower in 2006 compared to 2005. A significant portion of our United States lower 48 natural gas production is sold at bid-week prices or first-of-month indices relative to our specific producing areas. The average Henry Hub first-of-month price index was $1.41 per mcf lower in 2006 than the 2005 average. Our natural gas prices in Alaska are largely contractual, while natural gas sales there are seasonal in nature, trending down during the second and third quarters of each year and increasing during the fourth and first quarters. Our other major natural gas-producing regions are Europe and Equatorial Guinea, where large portions of our natural gas are sold at contractual prices, making realized prices in these areas less volatile.
        For information on commodity price risk management, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk."
        E&P segment income during 2006 was up approximately 6 percent from 2005 levels, impacted by increased liquid hydrocarbon sales volumes, primarily due to the resumption of production in Libya, and the higher liquid hydrocarbon prices discussed above, partially offset by higher income taxes, primarily in Libya, operating costs and exploration expenses and decreases in natural gas sales volumes.
Refining, Marketing and Transportation
        RM&T segment income depends largely on our refining and wholesale marketing gross margin, refinery throughputs, retail marketing gross margins for gasoline, distillates and merchandise, and the profitability of our pipeline transportation operations.
        The refining and wholesale marketing gross margin is the difference between the prices of refined products sold and the costs of crude oil and other charge and blendstocks refined, the costs of purchased products and manufacturing expenses, including depreciation. We purchase crude oil to satisfy our refineries' throughput requirements. As a result, our refining and wholesale marketing gross margin could be adversely affected by rising crude oil and other charge and blendstock prices that are not recovered in the marketplace. The crack spread, which is generally a measure of the difference between spot market gasoline and distillate prices and spot market crude oil costs, is a commonly used industry indicator of refining margins. In addition to changes in the crack spread, our refining and wholesale marketing gross margin is impacted by the types of crude oil and other charge and blendstocks we process, the selling prices we realize for all the refined products we sell, the cost of purchased product and our level of manufacturing costs. We process significant amounts of sour crude oil which enhances our competitive position in the industry as sour crude oil typically can be purchased at a discount to sweet crude oil. Over the last three years, approximately 60 percent of the crude oil throughput at our refineries has been sour crude oil. As one of the largest U.S. producers of asphalt, our refining and wholesale marketing gross margin is also impacted by the selling price of asphalt. Sales of asphalt increase during the highway construction season in our market area, which is typically in the second and third quarters of each year. The selling price of asphalt is dependent on the cost of crude oil, the price of alternative paving materials and the level of construction activity in both the private and public sectors. We supplement our refining production by purchasing gasolines and distillates in the spot market to resell at wholesale. In addition, we purchase ethanol for blending with gasoline. Our refining and wholesale marketing gross margin is impacted by the cost of these purchased products, which varies with available supply and demand. Finally, our refining and wholesale marketing gross margin is impacted by changes in manufacturing costs from period to period, which are primarily driven by the level of maintenance activities at the refineries and the price of purchased natural gas used for plant fuel. Our refining and wholesale marketing gross margin has been historically volatile and varies with the level of economic activity in our various marketing areas, the regulatory climate, logistical capabilities and expectations regarding the adequacy of refined product, ethanol and raw material supplies.
        Together with our June 30, 2005 acquisition of the 38 percent minority interest in MPC, our improved refining and wholesale marketing gross margin in 2006 was the key driver of the 72 percent increase in RM&T segment income over 2005. The average refining and wholesale marketing gross margin increased to 22.88 cents per gallon in 2006 from 15.82 cents per gallon in 2005.
        For information on commodity price risk management, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk."
        Our seven refineries have an aggregate refining capacity of 974 mbpd of crude oil. During 2006, our refineries processed 980 mbpd of crude oil and 234 mbpd of other charge and blend stocks for a crude oil capacity utilization rate of 101 percent.
        Our retail marketing gross margin for gasoline and distillates, which is the difference between the ultimate price paid by consumers and the cost of the refined products, including secondary transportation and consumer excise taxes, also plays an important part in RM&T segment profitability. Factors affecting our retail gasoline and distillate gross margin include competition, seasonal demand fluctuations, the available wholesale supply, the level of economic activity in our marketing areas and weather situations that impact driving conditions. Gross margins on merchandise sold at retail outlets tend to be less volatile than the gross margins from the retail sale of gasoline and distillates. Factors affecting the gross margin on retail merchandise sales include consumer demand for merchandise items, the impact of competition and the level of economic activity in our marketing areas.
        The profitability of our pipeline transportation operations is primarily dependent on the volumes shipped through the pipelines. The volume of crude oil that we transport is directly affected by the supply of, and refiner demand for, crude oil in the markets served directly by our crude oil pipelines. Key factors in this supply and demand balance are the production levels of crude oil by producers, the availability and cost of alternative modes of transportation, and refinery and transportation system maintenance levels. The volume of refined products that we transport is directly affected by the production levels of, and user demand for, refined products in the markets served by our refined product pipelines. In most of our markets, demand for gasoline peaks during the summer driving season, which extends from May through September of each year, and declines during the fall and winter months. The seasonal pattern for distillates is the reverse of this, helping to level overall variability on an annual basis. As with crude oil, other transportation alternatives and system maintenance levels influence refined product movements.
2
Integrated Gas
        Our long-term integrated gas strategy is to link stranded natural gas resources with areas where a supply gap is emerging due to declining production and growing demand. LNG, particularly in regard to our operations in Equatorial Guinea, is a key component of this integrated gas strategy. Our integrated gas operations include marketing and transportation of products manufactured from natural gas, such as LNG and methanol, primarily in the United States, Europe and West Africa. Also included in the financial results of the IG segment are the costs associated with ongoing development of certain integrated gas projects. Methanol spot pricing is volatile largely because global methanol demand is 35 million tons and any major unplanned shutdown of or addition to production capacity can have a significant impact on the supply-demand balance.
Corporate
        On April 25, 2007, our Board of Directors declared a two-for-one split of our common stock. The stock split was effected in the form of a stock dividend distributed on June 18, 2007, to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 23, 2007. Stockholders received one additional share of our common stock for each share of common stock held as of the close of business on the record date. Common stock and per share (except par value) information for all periods presented has been restated throughout this document to reflect the stock split.
2006 Operating Highlights
 - 
We announced seven discoveries in Angola and Norway and continued our major development projects, enhancing our E&P operations by:
 - 
Resuming operations and achieving first crude oil liftings in Libya;
 - 
Acquiring leasehold positions in the Bakken Shale in North Dakota and eastern Montana and the Piceance Basin of Colorado and adding acreage in the Barnett Shale in north central Texas;
 - 
Progressing the Alvheim/Vilje development offshore Norway and receiving Norwegian Government approval of the Volund field plan for development and operation that includes its tie-back to Alvheim;
 - 
Progressing the Neptune deepwater Gulf of Mexico development;
 - 
Signing a production sharing contract for the 1.2 million acre Pasangkayu exploration block in Indonesia; and
 - 
Completing the sale of our Russian oil exploration and production businesses at a gain.
 - 
We added net proved oil and natural gas reserves of 146 million boe, excluding 45 million boe of dispositions, while producing 134 million boe during 2006. Over the past three years, we have added net proved reserves of 648 million boe, excluding dispositions of approximately 46 million boe, while producing approximately 380 million boe.
 - 
We achieved record refinery crude oil and total throughput and strengthened our RM&T business by:
 - 
Authorizing the projected $3.2 billion expansion of our Garyville refinery;
 - 
Completing the Tier II ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel projects on time and under budget;
 - 
Forming an ethanol joint venture and beginning construction of the venture's first ethanol plant in Greenville, Ohio;
 - 
Awarding a FEED contract at the Detroit refinery and launching a feasibility study at the Catlettsburg refinery for potential heavy oil upgrading projects; and
 - 
Acquiring strategic marine and terminal assets.
 - 
We increased Marathon Brand gasoline and diesel sales volumes 6 percent in 2006.
 - 
We increased Speedway SuperAmerica's (SSA) same store gasoline and diesel sales volume 2 percent and merchandise sales 8 percent over 2005.
 - 
We advanced our integrated gas strategy by:
 - 
Progressing our Equatorial Guinea LNG production facility to near completion, with commissioning begun in late 2006; and
 - 
Awarding a FEED contract to evaluate a possible second LNG production facility in Equatorial Guinea.
3
 - 
We issued a request for proposals for a potential Canadian oil sands venture.
Critical Accounting Estimates
        The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the respective reporting periods. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
        Certain accounting estimates are considered to be critical if (1) the nature of the estimates and assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change; and (2) the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material.
Estimated Net Recoverable Quantities of Oil and Natural Gas
        We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas producing activities. The successful efforts method inherently relies on the estimation of proved oil and natural gas reserves, both developed and undeveloped. The existence and the estimated amount of proved reserves affect, among other things, whether certain costs are capitalized or expensed, the amount and timing of costs depreciated, depleted or amortized into net income and the presentation of supplemental information on oil and gas producing activities. Both the expected future cash flows to be generated by oil and gas producing properties used in testing such properties for impairment and the expected future taxable income available to realize deferred tax assets also rely, in part, on estimates of net recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas.
        Proved reserves are the estimated quantities of oil and natural gas that geologic and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Estimates of proved reserves may change, either positively or negatively, as additional information becomes available and as contractual, economic and political conditions change. During 2006, net revisions of previous estimates increased total proved reserves by 83 million boe (6 percent of the beginning-of-the-year reserves estimate). Positive revisions of 98 million boe were partially offset by 15 million boe in negative revisions.
        Our estimation of net recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas is a highly technical process performed by in-house teams of reservoir engineers and geoscience professionals. All estimates prepared by these teams are made in compliance with SEC Rule 4-10(a)(2),(3) and (4) of Regulation S-X and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 25, "Suspension of Certain Accounting Requirements for Oil and Gas Producing Companies (an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 19)," and disclosed in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 69, "Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities (an Amendment of FASB Statements 19, 25, 33 and 39)." All reserve estimates are reviewed and approved by members of our Corporate Reserves Group. Any change to proved reserves estimates in excess of 2.5 million boe on a total-field basis, within a single month, must be approved by the Director of Corporate Reserves, who reports to our Chief Financial Officer. The Corporate Reserves Group may also perform separate, detailed technical reviews of reserve estimates for significant fields that were acquired recently or for properties with problematic indicators such as excessively long lives, sudden changes in performance or changes in economic or operating conditions.
        Third-party consultants are engaged to prepare independent reserve estimates for fields that make up 80 percent of our reserves over a rolling four-year period. At December 31, 2006 we had met this goal. For 2006, Marathon established a tolerance level of 10 percent for third-party reserve estimates such that the third-party consultants discontinue their estimation activities once their results are within 10 percent of Marathon's internal estimates. Should the third-party consultants' initial analysis fail to reach our tolerance level, the consultants re-examine the information provided, request additional data and refine their analysis if appropriate. If, after this re-examination, the third-party consultants cannot arrive at estimates within our tolerance, we would adjust our reserve estimates as necessary. This independent third-party reserve estimation process did not result in significant changes to our reserve estimates in 2006, 2005 or 2004.
        The reserves of the Alba field in Equatorial Guinea comprise approximately 40 percent of our total proved oil and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2006. The next five largest oil and gas producing asset groups  the Waha concessions in Libya, the Alvheim development offshore Norway, the Brae area complex offshore the United Kingdom,
4
the Kenai field in Alaska and the Oregon Basin field in the Rocky Mountain area of the United States  comprise a total of approximately 30 percent of our total proved oil and natural gas reserves.
        Depreciation and depletion of producing oil and natural gas properties is determined by the units-of-production method and could change with revisions to estimated proved developed reserves. The change in the depreciation and depletion rate over the past three years due to revisions of previous reserve estimates has not been significant. A five percent increase in the amount of oil and natural gas reserves would change the depreciation and depletion rate from $6.92 per barrel to $6.59 per barrel, which would increase pretax income by approximately $45 million annually, based on 2006 production. A five percent decrease in the amount of oil and natural gas reserves would change the depreciation and depletion rate from $6.92 per barrel to $7.28 per barrel and would result in a decrease in pretax income of approximately $50 million annually, based on 2006 production.
Fair Value Estimates
        We are required to develop estimates of fair value to allocate the purchase prices paid to acquire businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in those acquisitions, to assess impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets and to record non-exchange traded derivative instruments. Other items which require fair value estimates include asset retirement obligations, guarantee obligations and stock-based compensation.
        Under the purchase method of accounting, the purchase price paid to acquire a business is allocated to its assets and liabilities based on the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. The most difficult estimations of individual fair values are those involving property, plant and equipment and identifiable intangible assets. We use all available information to make these fair value determinations and, for certain acquisitions, engage third-party consultants for assistance. During 2005, we made two significant acquisitions with an aggregate purchase price of $3.156 billion that was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for information on these acquisitions. We did not make any significant acquisitions in 2006. As of December 31, 2006, our recorded goodwill was $1.398 billion. Such goodwill is not amortized, but rather is tested for impairment annually, and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit with goodwill has been reduced below its carrying value.
        The fair values used to allocate the purchase price of an acquisition and to test goodwill for impairment are often estimated using the expected present value of future cash flows method, which requires us to project related future revenues and expenses and apply an appropriate discount rate. The estimates used in determining fair values are based on assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Accordingly, actual results may differ from the projected results used to determine fair value.
        Long-lived assets used in operations are assessed for impairment whenever changes in facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. For purposes of impairment evaluation, long-lived assets must be grouped at the lowest level for which independent cash flows can be identified, which generally is field-by-field for E&P assets, refinery and associated distribution system level or pipeline system level for refining and transportation assets, or site level for retail stores. If the sum of the undiscounted estimated pretax cash flows is less than the carrying value of an asset group, the carrying value is written down to the estimated fair value.
        Estimating the expected future cash flows from our oil and gas producing asset groups requires assumptions about matters such as future oil and natural gas prices, estimated recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas, expected field performance and the political environment in the host country. An impairment of any of our large oil and gas producing properties could have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.
        We evaluate our unproved property investment for impairment based on time or geologic factors in addition to the use of an undiscounted future net cash flow approach. Information such as drilling results, reservoir performance, seismic interpretation or future plans to develop acreage are also considered. The expected future cash flows from our RM&T assets require assumptions about matters such as future refined product prices, future crude oil and other feedstock costs, estimated remaining lives of the assets and future expenditures necessary to maintain the assets' existing service potential.
        During 2006, we recorded impairments of $25 million, including $20 million related to the Camden Hills field in the Gulf of Mexico and the associated Canyon Express pipeline. Natural gas production from the Camden Hills field ended during 2006 as a result of increased water production from the well. We did not have significant impairment
5
charges during 2005. During 2004, we recorded an impairment of $32 million related to unproved properties and $12 million related to producing properties primarily as a result of unsuccessful developmental drilling activity in Russia.
        We record all derivative instruments at fair value. We have two long-term contracts for the sale of natural gas in the United Kingdom that are accounted for as derivative instruments. These contracts expire in September 2009. These contracts were entered into in the early 1990s in support of our investments in the East Brae field and the SAGE pipeline. Contract prices are linked to a basket of energy and other indices. The contract price is reset annually in October based on the previous twelve-month changes in the basket of indices. Consequently, the prices under these contracts do not track forward natural gas prices. The fair value of these contracts is determined by applying the difference between the contract price and the U.K. forward natural gas strip price to the expected sales volumes under these contracts for the next 18 months. Adjustments to the fair value of these contracts result in non-cash charges or credits to income from operations. The difference between the contract price and the U.K. forward natural gas strip price may fluctuate widely from time to time and may significantly affect income from operations. In 2006, the non-cash gains related to changes in fair value recognized in income from operations were $454 million. Non-cash losses of $386 million and $99 million were recognized in 2005 and 2004. These effects are primarily due to the U.K. 18-month forward natural gas price curve weakening 44 percent in 2006, while it strengthened 90 percent and 36 percent during 2005 and 2004.
Expected Future Taxable Income
        We must estimate our expected future taxable income to assess the realizability of our deferred income tax assets. As of December 31, 2006, we reported net deferred tax assets of $1.865 billion, which represented gross assets of $2.554 billion net of valuation allowances of $689 million.
        Numerous assumptions are inherent in the estimation of future taxable income, including assumptions about matters that are dependent on future events, such as future operating conditions (particularly as related to prevailing oil and natural gas prices) and future financial conditions. The estimates and assumptions used in determining future taxable income are consistent with those used in our internal budgets, forecasts and strategic plans.
        In determining our overall estimated future taxable income for purposes of assessing the need for additional valuation allowances, we consider proved and risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves related to our existing producing properties, as well as estimated quantities of oil and natural gas related to undeveloped discoveries if, in our judgment, it is likely that development plans will be approved in the foreseeable future. In assessing the propriety of releasing an existing valuation allowance, we consider the preponderance of evidence concerning the realization of the impaired deferred tax asset.
        Additionally, we must consider any prudent and feasible tax planning strategies that might minimize the amount of deferred tax liabilities recognized or the amount of any valuation allowance recognized against deferred tax assets, if we can implement these strategies and if we expect to implement these strategies in the event the forecasted conditions actually occurred. The principal tax planning strategy available to us relates to the permanent reinvestment of the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. Assumptions related to the permanent reinvestment of the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are reconsidered quarterly to give effect to changes in our portfolio of producing properties and in our tax profile.
Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Obligations
        Accounting for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations involves numerous assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the following:
 - 
the discount rate for measuring the present value of future plan obligations;
 - 
the expected long-term return on plan assets;
 - 
the rate of future increases in compensation levels; and
 - 
health care cost projections.
        We develop our demographics and utilize the work of third-party actuaries to assist in the measurement of these obligations. We have selected different discount rates for our funded U.S. pension plans and our unfunded U.S. retiree health plans due to the different projected liability durations of 9 years and 13 years. In determining the assumed discount rates, our methods include a review of market yields on high-quality corporate debt and use of our third-party actuary's discount rate modeling tool. This tool applies a yield curve to the projected benefit plan cash flows
6
using a hypothetical Aa yield curve. The yield curve represents a series of annualized individual discount rates from 1.5 to 30 years. The bonds used are rated Aa or higher by a recognized rating agency and only non-callable bonds are included. Each issue is required to have at least $150 million par value outstanding. The top quartile bonds are selected within each maturity group to construct the yield curve.
        The asset rate of return assumption considers the asset mix of the plans (currently targeted at approximately 75 percent equity securities and 25 percent debt securities for the funded pension plans), past performance and other factors. Certain components of the asset mix are modeled with various assumptions regarding inflation, debt returns and stock yields. Our assumptions are compared to those of peer companies and to historical returns for reasonableness and appropriateness.
        Compensation increase assumptions are based on historical experience, anticipated future management actions and demographics of the benefit plans.
        Health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends.
        Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements includes detailed information about the assumptions used to calculate the components of our defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan expense for 2006, 2005 and 2004, as well as the obligations and accumulated other comprehensive income reported on the balance sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005.
        Of the assumptions used to measure the December 31, 2006 obligations and estimated 2007 net periodic benefit cost, the discount rate has the most significant effect on the periodic benefit cost reported for the plans. A 0.25 percent decrease in the discount rates of 5.80 percent for our U.S. pension plans and 5.90 percent for our other U.S. postretirement benefit plans would increase pension obligations and other postretirement benefit plan obligations by $93 million and $28 million and would increase defined benefit pension expense and other postretirement plan expense by $13 million and $2 million.
        In 2006, we made certain plan design changes which included an update of the mortality table used in the plans' definition of actuarial equivalence and lump sum calculations and a 20 percent retiree cost of living adjustment for annuitants. This change increased our benefit obligations by $117 million. In 2005, we decreased our retirement age assumption by two years and also increased our lump sum election rate from 90 percent to 96 percent based on changing trends in our experience. This change increased our benefit obligations by $109 million.
Contingent Liabilities
        We accrue contingent liabilities for income and other tax deficiencies, environmental remediation, product liability claims and litigation claims when such contingencies are probable and estimable. Actual costs can differ from estimates for many reasons. For instance, the costs from settlement of claims and litigation can vary from estimates based on differing interpretations of laws, opinions on responsibility and assessments of the amount of damages. Similarly, liabilities for environmental remediation may vary because of changes in laws, regulations and their interpretation; the determination of additional information on the extent and nature of site contamination; and improvements in technology. Our in-house legal counsel regularly assesses these contingent liabilities. In certain circumstances, outside legal counsel is utilized.
        A liability is recorded for these types of contingencies if we determine the loss to be both probable and estimable. We generally record these losses as cost of revenues or selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income, except for tax contingencies, which are recorded as other taxes or provision for income taxes. For additional information on contingent liabilities, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies."
        An estimate of the sensitivity to net income if other assumptions had been used in recording these liabilities is not practical because of the number of contingencies that must be assessed, the number of underlying assumptions and the wide range of reasonably possible outcomes, in terms of both the probability of loss and the estimates of such loss.
7
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations
Change in Accounting for Matching Buy/Sell Transactions
        Matching buy/sell transactions arise from arrangements in which we agree to buy a specified quantity and quality of crude oil or refined product to be delivered to a specified location while simultaneously agreeing to sell a specified quantity and quality of the same commodity at a specified location to the same counterparty. Prior to April 1, 2006, all matching buy/sell transactions were recorded as separate sale and purchase transactions, or on a "gross" basis. Effective for contracts entered into or modified on or after April 1, 2006, the income effects of matching buy/sell transactions are reported in cost of revenues, or on a "net" basis. Transactions under contracts entered into before April 1, 2006 will continue to be reported on a "gross" basis.
        Each purchase and sale transaction has the characteristics of a separate legal transaction, including separate invoicing and cash settlement. Accordingly, we believed that we were required to account for these transactions separately. An accounting interpretation clarified the circumstances under which a matching buy/sell transaction should be viewed as a single transaction involving the exchange of inventory. For a further description of the accounting requirements and how they apply to matching buy/sell transactions, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
        This accounting change had no effect on net income but the amounts of revenues and cost of revenues recognized after April 1, 2006 are less than the amounts that would have been recognized under previous accounting practices.
        Additionally, this accounting change impacts the comparability of certain operating statistics, most notably "refining and wholesale marketing gross margin per gallon." While this change does not have an effect on the refining and wholesale marketing gross margin (the numerator for calculating this statistic), sales volumes (the denominator for calculating this statistic) recognized after April 1, 2006 are less than the amount that would have been recognized under previous accounting practices because volumes related to matching buy/sell transactions under contracts entered into or modified on or after April 1, 2006 have been excluded. Accordingly, the resulting refining and wholesale marketing gross margin per gallon statistic will be higher than that same statistic calculated from amounts determined under previous accounting practices. The effect of this change on the refining and wholesale marketing gross margin per gallon for 2006 was not significant.
Consolidated Results of Operations
        
Revenues
for each of the last three years are summarized in the following table:
        
E&P segment revenues
increased $1.001 billion in 2006 from 2005 and $1.597 billion in 2005 from 2004. The 2006 increase was primarily in international revenues due to higher realized liquid hydrocarbon prices and sales volumes as illustrated in the table below. The largest liquid hydrocarbon sales volume increase was in Libya, where the first crude oil sales occurred in the first quarter of 2006 and where sales volumes averaged 54 mbpd in 2006, including a total of 8 mbpd that were owed to our account upon the resumption of our operations there. Revenues from domestic operations were flat from year to year. An 8 percent decrease in domestic net natural gas sales volumes, primarily as the result of the Camden Hills field in the Gulf of Mexico ceasing production in early 2006, almost completely offset the benefit of higher liquid hydrocarbon prices in 2006.
8
        The 2005 increase in E&P segment revenues over 2004 was primarily the result of higher worldwide liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas prices and international liquid hydrocarbon sales volumes partially offset by lower domestic natural gas and liquid hydrocarbon sales volumes as illustrated in the table below. The decline in domestic volumes in 2005 resulted primarily from weather-related downtime in the Gulf of Mexico and natural declines in field production rates.
E&P Operating Statistics
(a)
Includes crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
(b)
Represents equity tanker liftings and direct deliveries of liquid hydrocarbons. The amounts correspond with the basis for fiscal settlements with governments. Crude oil purchases, if any, from host governments are excluded.
(c)
Represents Marathon's Russian oil exploration and production businesses that were sold in June 2006.
(d)
Represents net sales after royalties, except for Ireland where amounts are before royalties.
(e)
Includes natural gas acquired for injection and subsequent resale of 46, 38, and 19 mmcfd in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Effective July 1, 2005, the methodology for allocating sales volumes between natural gas produced from the Brae complex and third-party natural gas production was modified, resulting in an increase in volumes representing natural gas acquired for injection and subsequent resale.
(f)
Excludes gains and losses on traditional derivative instruments and the unrealized effects of long-term U.K. natural gas contracts that are accounted for as derivatives.
        E&P segment revenues included derivative gains of $25 million and $7 million in 2006 and 2005, and derivative losses of $152 million in 2004. Excluded from E&P segment revenues were gains of $454 million in 2006 and losses of $386 million and $99 million in 2005 and 2004 related to long-term natural gas sales contracts in the United Kingdom that are accounted for as derivative instruments. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" on page 56.
9
        
RM&T segment revenues
decreased by $62 million in 2006 from 2005 and increased by $12.373 billion in 2005 from 2004. The portion of RM&T revenues reported for matching buy/sell transactions decreased $7.072 billion and increased $3.438 billion in the same periods. The decrease in revenues from matching buy/sell transactions in 2006 was a result of the change in accounting for these transactions effective April 1, 2006, discussed above. Excluding matching buy/sell transactions, 2006 revenues increased primarily as a result of higher refined product prices and sales volumes. The 2005 increase primarily reflected higher refined product and crude oil prices and increased refined product sales volumes, partially offset by decreased crude oil sales volumes.
        For additional information on segment results see page 43.
        
Income from equity method investments
increased by $126 million in 2006 from 2005 and increased by $98 million in 2005 from 2004. Income from our LPG operations in Equatorial Guinea increased in both periods due to higher sales volumes as a result of the plant expansions completed in 2005. The increase in 2005 also included higher PTC income as a result of higher distillate gross margins.
        
Cost of revenues
increased $4.609 billion in 2006 from 2005 and $7.106 billion in 2005 from 2004. In both periods the increases were primarily in the RM&T segment and resulted from increases in acquisition costs of crude oil, refinery charge and blend stocks and purchased refined products. The increase in both periods was also impacted by higher manufacturing expenses, primarily the result of higher contract services and labor costs in 2006 and higher purchased energy costs in 2005.
        
Purchases related to matching buy/sell transactions
decreased $6.968 billion in 2006 from 2005 and increased $3.314 billion in 2005 from 2004, mostly in the RM&T segment. The decrease in 2006 was primarily related to the change in accounting for matching buy/sell transactions discussed above. The increase in 2005 was primarily due to increased crude oil prices.
        
Depreciation, depletion and amortization
increased $215 million in 2006 from 2005 and $125 million in 2005 from 2004. RM&T segment depreciation expense increased in both years as a result of the increase in asset value recorded for our acquisition of the 38 percent interest in MPC on June 30, 2005. In addition, the Detroit refinery expansion completed in the fourth quarter of 2005 contributed to the RM&T depreciation expense increase in 2006. E&P segment depreciation expense for 2006 included a $20 million impairment of capitalized costs related to the Camden Hills field in the Gulf of Mexico and the associated Canyon Express pipeline. Natural gas production from the Camden Hills field ended in 2006 as a result of increased water production from the well.
        
Selling, general and administrative expenses
increased $73 million in 2006 from 2005 and $134 million in 2005 from 2004. The 2006 increase was primarily because personnel and staffing costs increased throughout the year primarily as a result of variable compensation arrangements and increased business activity. Partially offsetting these increases were reductions in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in 2005 was primarily a result of increased stock-based compensation expense, due to the increase in our stock price during that year as well as an increase in equity-based awards, which was partially offset by a decrease in expense as a result of severance and pension plan curtailment charges and start-up costs related to EGHoldings in 2004.
        
Exploration expenses
increased $148 million in 2006 from 2005 and $59 million in 2005 from 2004. Exploration expense related to dry wells and other write-offs totaled $166 million, $111 million and $47 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004. Exploration expense in 2006 also included $47 million for exiting the Cortland and Empire leases in Nova Scotia.
        
Net interest and other financing costs (income)
reflected a net $37 million of income for 2006, a favorable change of $183 million from the net $146 million expense in 2005. Net interest and other financing costs decreased $16 million in 2005 from 2004. The favorable changes in 2006 included increased interest income due to higher interest rates and average cash balances, foreign currency exchange gains, adjustments to interest on tax issues and greater capitalized interest. The decrease in expense for 2005 was primarily a result of increased interest income on higher average cash balances and greater capitalized interest, partially offset by increased interest on potential tax deficiencies and higher foreign exchange losses. Included in net interest and other financing costs (income) are foreign currency gains of $16 million, losses of $17 million and gains of $9 million for 2006, 2005 and 2004.
        
Minority interest in income of MPC
decreased $148 million in 2005 from 2004 due to our acquisition of the 38 percent interest in MPC on June 30, 2005.
        
Provision for income taxes
increased $2.308 billion in 2006 from 2005 and $979 million in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to the $4.259 billion and $2.691 billion increases in income from continuing operations before income taxes. The increase in our effective income tax rate in 2006 was primarily a result of the income taxes related to our Libyan operations, where the statutory income tax rate is in excess of 90 percent. The following is an analysis of the effective income tax rates for continuing operations for 2006, 2005 and 2004. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.
10
        
Discontinued operations
for all periods reflects the operations of our former Russian oil exploration and production businesses which were sold in June 2006. An after-tax gain on the disposal of $243 million is included in discontinued operations for 2006. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Also included in 2004 is a $4 million adjustment to the gain on the 2003 sale of our exploration and production operations in western Canada.
        
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle
in 2005 was an unfavorable effect of $19 million, net of taxes of $12 million, representing the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation ("FIN") No. 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143," as of December 31, 2005.
Segment Results
        Effective January 1, 2006, we revised our measure of segment income to include the effects of minority interests and income taxes related to the segments. In addition, the results of activities primarily associated with the marketing of our equity natural gas production, which had been presented as part of the integrated gas segment prior to 2006, are now included in the exploration and production segment. Segment results for all periods presented reflect these changes.
        As discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, we sold our Russian oil exploration and production businesses during 2006. The activities of these operations have been reported as discontinued operations and therefore are excluded from segment results for all periods presented.
        
Segment income
for each of the last three years is summarized and reconciled to net income in the following table.
(a)
Amounts relate to long-term natural gas contracts in the United Kingdom that are accounted for as derivative instruments and recorded at fair value. See "Critical Accounting Estimates  Fair Value Estimates" on page 37 for further discussion.
(b)
Other deferred tax adjustments in 2006 represent a benefit recorded for cumulative income tax basis differences associated with prior periods.
(c)
Insurance expense in 2004 related to estimated future obligations to make certain insurance premium payments related to past loss experience.
        
United States E&P income
decreased $110 million in 2006 from 2005. This was the result of a $182 million decline in pretax income, partially offset by a slight reduction in the effective income tax rate from 37 percent in 2005 to 36 percent in 2006. The decrease in pretax income was due to increases in variable production costs, exploration expenses, property impairments and depreciation, depletion and amortization. Exploration expenses in 2006 were $51 million higher than in 2005, with half of the increase related to a Gulf of Mexico exploratory dry well. As discussed above, U.S. E&P revenues were flat from 2005 to 2006.
        U.S. E&P income increased $309 million in 2005 from 2004. This was the result of a $917 million pretax income increase primarily due to higher revenues as discussed above. The effective income tax rate was 37 percent in both
11
years. Our cost of storm-related repairs as a result of 2005 hurricane activity in the Gulf of Mexico was not significant and our Gulf of Mexico production quickly returned to pre-storm levels. In late September 2004, certain production platforms in the Gulf of Mexico were evacuated due to hurricane activity. All facilities were back on line by October 1, 2004 with the exception of the Petronius platform which came back on line in March 2005. As a result of the damage to the Petronius platform, we recorded expense of $11 million in 2004 representing repair costs incurred, partially offset by the net effects of the property damage insurance recoveries and the related retrospective insurance premiums. We recorded income of $53 million in 2005 and $34 million in 2004 for business interruption insurance recoveries.
        
International E&P income
increased $226 million in 2006 from 2005, reflecting an increase in pretax income of $1.639 billion and an increase in the effective tax rate from 34 percent in 2005 to 62 percent in 2006. The revenue increase discussed above, primarily related to higher liquid hydrocarbon sales volumes and prices in Libya, had the most significant impact on pretax income. Depreciation, depletion and amortization and other variable costs increased with increased production to partially offset the revenue increase. Exploration expenses also increased $97 million in 2006 compared to 2005. Exploration expense related to dry wells and other write-offs was $68 million in 2006 and $44 million in 2005. Also included in 2006 exploration expense was $47 million for exiting the Cortland and Empire leases in Nova Scotia. The increase in the effective income tax rate was primarily the result of the income taxes related to our Libyan operations, where the statutory income tax rate is in excess of 90 percent, and the 2006 increase in the U.K. supplemental corporation tax rate from 10 percent to 20 percent.
        International E&P income increased $488 million in 2005 from 2004, reflecting an increase in pretax income of $740 million and an effective income tax rate of 37 percent in both years. The revenue increase discussed above had the most significant impact on pretax income. Increases in production costs and depletion, depreciation and amortization related primarily to increased production partially offset the benefit of higher revenue. Exploration expenses were also higher in 2005.
        
RM&T segment income
increased $1.167 billion in 2006 from 2005 and $1.060 billion in 2005 from 2004. Segment income in 2006 and 2005 benefited from the 38 percent minority interest in MPC that we acquired on June 30, 2005. Pre-tax income increased by $1.802 billion in 2006 from 2005 and $1.766 billion in 2005 from 2004. The pretax earnings reduction related to the minority interest was $376 million in 2005 and $539 million in 2004. The key driver of the increase in RM&T pretax income in both years was our refining and wholesale marketing gross margin which averaged 22.88 cents per gallon in 2006 compared to 15.82 cents in 2005 and 8.77 cents in 2004. The increase in the margin for 2006 reflected wider crack spreads, improved refined product sales realizations, the favorable effects of our ethanol blending program and increased refinery throughputs. In 2005, the margin improved initially due to wider sweet/sour crude oil differentials and later due to the temporary impact that Hurricanes Katrina and Rita had on refined product prices and concerns about the adequacy of distillate supplies heading into that winter.
        Included in the refining and wholesale marketing gross margin were pretax gains of $400 million in 2006 and pretax losses of $238 million in 2005 and $272 million in 2004 related to derivatives utilized primarily to manage price risk. These derivative gains and losses are largely offset by gains and losses on the physical commodity transactions related to these derivative positions. The change from derivative losses to derivative gains reflects both improvements in the realized effects of our derivatives programs as well as unrealized effects as a result of marking open derivatives positions to market. See further discussion under "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk."
        We averaged 980 mbpd of crude oil throughput in 2006, or 101 percent of system capacity. We averaged 973 mbpd of crude oil throughput in 2005 and 939 mbpd in 2004, representing 102 percent and 99 percent of system capacity for those years. Our capacity increased in 2005 as a result of the Detroit refinery expansion from 74 to 100 mbpd.
        The following table includes certain key operating statistics for the RM&T segment for each of the last three years.
RM&T Operating Statistics
(a)
Sales revenue less cost of refinery inputs, purchased products and manufacturing expenses, including depreciation.
(b)
Total average daily volumes of refined product sales to wholesale, branded and retail (SSA) customers.
(c)
On April 1, 2006, we changed our accounting for matching buy/sell transactions as a result of a new accounting standard. This change resulted in lower refined product sales volumes for the remainder of 2006 than would have been reported under the previous accounting practices. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
12
        
IG segment income
decreased $39 million in 2006 from 2005 compared to an increase of $18 million in 2005 from 2004. In 2006, a $17 million pretax loss was recognized as a result of the renegotiation of a technology agreement and income from our equity method investment in AMPCO was lower due to plant downtime during a planned turnaround and subsequent compressor repair, partially offset by higher realized methanol prices. The provision for income taxes also increased $15 million in 2006.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity
Financial Condition
        Net property, plant and equipment increased $1.642 billion in 2006 primarily as a result of the capital expenditures and the additional capitalized asset retirement costs discussed below. Net property, plant and equipment as of the end of the last two years is summarized in the following table.
        Asset retirement obligations increased $333 million in 2006 from 2005 primarily due to upward revisions of previous estimates related to increasing cost estimates, primarily in the United Kingdom, and to the accrual of obligations for new properties, primarily the Alvheim/Vilje development in Norway and the LNG production facility in Equatorial Guinea.
Cash Flows
        
Net cash provided from operating activities
totaled $5.488 billion in 2006, compared with $4.738 billion in 2005 and $3.766 billion in 2004. The $750 million increase in 2006 primarily reflects the impact of higher net income, partially offset by contributions of $635 million to our funded defined benefit pension plans and working capital changes. The 2005 increase mainly resulted from higher net income, partially offset by the effects of receivables which were transferred to Ashland at the Acquisition date.
        
Net cash used in investing activities
totaled $2.955 billion in 2006, compared with $3.127 billion in 2005 and $2.324 billion in 2004. Significant investing activities include capital expenditures, acquisitions of businesses and asset disposals.
        
Capital expenditures
by segment for continuing operations for each of the last three years are summarized in the following table.
        The $637 million increase in capital expenditures in 2006 over 2005 primarily resulted from increased spending in the E&P segment and primarily relates to significant acreage acquisitions in the Bakken Shale in North Dakota and eastern Montana and the Piceance Basin of Colorado, as well as to continued work on the Alvheim/Vilje development offshore Norway and the Neptune development in the Gulf of Mexico. The $264 million decrease in integrated gas spending reflects the fact that the LNG production facility in Equatorial Guinea is nearing completion. The $655 million increase in 2005 capital expenditures over 2004 mainly resulted from increased spending related to the Alvheim development and the Equatorial Guinea LNG production facility.
13
        
Acquisitions
in 2006 primarily included cash payments of $718 million associated with our re-entry into Libya. Acquisitions in 2005 included cash payments of $506 million for the acquisition of Ashland's 38 percent ownership in MPC. For further discussion of acquisitions, see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
        
Disposal of assets and of discontinued operations
totaled $966 million in 2006, compared with $131 million in 2005 and $76 million in 2004. Proceeds of $832 million from the disposal of discontinued operations in 2006 related to the sale of our Russian exploration and production businesses in June 2006. In 2006, other disposals of assets included proceeds from the sale of 90 percent of our interest in Syrian natural gas fields, SSA stores and other domestic production and transportation assets. In 2005 and 2004, proceeds were primarily from the sale of various domestic producing properties and SSA stores.
        
Net cash used in financing activities
totaled $2.581 billion in 2006, compared with $2.345 billion in 2005, and net cash provided of $527 million in 2004. Significant uses of cash in financing activities during 2006 included common stock repurchases under a previously announced plan, which is discussed under Liquidity and Capital Resources, dividend payments, the repayment of our 6.65% notes that matured during 2006 and the early extinguishment of portions of our outstanding debt. The most significant use of cash in 2005 was related to the repayment of $1.920 billion of debt assumed as a part of the acquisition of Ashland's 38 percent of MPC. In 2004, cash provided from financing activities was primarily related to the issuance of 69,000,000 shares of common stock on March 31, 2004, resulting in net proceeds of $1.004 billion. The change from 2004 to 2005 also included an increase in dividends paid and distributions to the minority shareholder of MPC prior to the Acquisition, net of an increase in contributions from the minority shareholders of EGHoldings.
Derivative Instruments
        See "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" on page 56, for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk.
Dividends to Stockholders
        Dividends of $0.76 per common share or $548 million were paid during 2006. On January 29, 2007, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.20 cents per share on our common stock, payable March 12, 2007, to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 21, 2007.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
        Our main sources of liquidity and capital resources are internally generated cash flow from operations, committed credit facilities and access to both the debt and equity capital markets. Our ability to access the debt capital market is supported by our investment grade credit ratings. Our senior unsecured debt is currently rated investment grade by Standard and Poor's Corporation, Moody's Investor Services, Inc. and Fitch Ratings with ratings of BBB+, Baa1, and BBB+. Because of the liquidity and capital resource alternatives available to us, including internally generated cash flow, we believe that our short-term and long-term liquidity is adequate to fund operations, including our capital spending programs, stock repurchase program, repayment of debt maturities and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies.
        During 2006, we entered into an amendment to our $1.5 billion five-year revolving credit agreement, expanding the size of the facility to $2.0 billion and extending the termination date from May 2009 to May 2011. Concurrent with this amendment, the $500 million MPC revolving credit facility was terminated. At December 31, 2006, there were no borrowings against this facility. At December 31, 2006, we had no commercial paper outstanding under our U.S. commercial paper program that is backed by the five-year revolving credit facility.
        During 2006 we entered into a loan agreement which allows borrowings of up to $525 million from the Norwegian export credit agency based upon the amount of qualifying purchases by Marathon of goods and services from Norwegian suppliers. The loan agreement provides for either a fixed or floating interest rate option at the time of the initial drawdown. Should we elect to borrow under the agreement, the initial drawdown can only occur in June 2007.
        As a condition of the closing agreements for the Acquisition, we are required to maintain MPC on a stand-alone basis financially through June 30, 2007. During this period of time, capital contributions into MPC are prohibited and MPC is prohibited from incurring additional debt, except for borrowings under an existing intercompany loan facility to fund an expansion project at MPC's Detroit refinery and in the event of limited extraordinary circumstances. There are no restrictions against MPC making intercompany loans or declaring dividends to its parent. We believe that the
14
existing cash balances of MPC and cash provided from its operations will be adequate to meet its stand-alone liquidity requirements over the remainder of this two-year period.
        As of December 31, 2006, there was $1.7 billion aggregate amount of common stock, preferred stock and other equity securities, debt securities, trust preferred securities or other securities, including securities convertible into or exchangeable for other equity or debt securities available to be issued under the $2.7 billion universal shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2002.
        Our cash-adjusted debt-to-capital ratio (total-debt-minus-cash to total-debt-plus-equity-minus-cash) was six percent at December 31, 2006, compared to 11 percent at year-end 2005 as shown below. This includes $519 million of debt that is serviced by United States Steel.
        During 2006, we extinguished portions of our outstanding debt with a total face value of $162 million. The debt was repurchased at a weighted average price equal to 122 percent of face value. We will continue to evaluate debt repurchase opportunities as they arise.
        Our opinions concerning liquidity and our ability to avail ourselves in the future of the financing options mentioned in the above forward-looking statements are based on currently available information. If this information proves to be inaccurate, future availability of financing may be adversely affected. Factors that affect the availability of financing include our performance (as measured by various factors including cash provided from operating activities), the state of worldwide debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations of past and future performance, the global financial climate, and, in particular, with respect to borrowings, the levels of our outstanding debt and credit ratings by rating agencies.
Stock Repurchase Program
        In January 2006, we announced a $2 billion share repurchase program. In January 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the extension of this share repurchase program by an additional $500 million. As of February 21, 2007, we had repurchased 48.3 million common shares at a cost of $2 billion. We anticipate completing the additional $500 million in share repurchases during the first half of 2007. Purchases under the program may be in either open market transactions, including block purchases, or in privately negotiated transactions. We will use cash on hand, cash generated from operations or cash from available borrowings to acquire shares. This program may be changed based upon our financial condition or changes in market conditions and is subject to termination prior to completion.
        The forward-looking statements about our common stock repurchase program are based on current expectations, estimates and projections and are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations, estimates and projections and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are changes in prices of and demand for crude oil, natural gas and refined products, actions of competitors, disruptions or interruptions of our production or refining operations due to unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, acts of war or terrorist acts and the governmental or military response, and other operating and economic considerations.
15
Contractual Cash Obligations
        The table below provides aggregated information on our obligations to make future payments under existing contracts as of December 31, 2006.
(a)
Upon the Separation, United States Steel assumed certain debt and lease obligations. Such amounts are included in the above table because Marathon remains primarily liable.
(b)
We anticipate cash payments for interest of $227 million for 2007, $364 million for 2008-2009, $357 million for 2010-2011 and $1.387 billion for the remaining years for a total of $2.335 billion.
(c)
The majority of these contractual obligations as of December 31, 2006 relate to contracts to be satisfied within the first 180 days of 2007. These contracts include variable price arrangements and some contracts are accounted for as nontraditional derivatives.
(d)
We have acquired the right to deliver 58 bcf of natural gas per year to the Elba Island LNG re-gasification terminal. The agreement's primary term ends in 2021. Pursuant to this agreement, we are also committed to pay for a portion of the operating costs of the terminal.
(e)
Service and materials contracts include contracts to purchase services such as utilities, supplies and various other maintenance and operating services.
(f)
We are a party to a long-term transportation services agreement with Alliance Pipeline. This agreement is used by Alliance Pipeline to secure its financing. This arrangement represents an indirect guarantee of indebtedness. Therefore, this amount has also been disclosed as a guarantee. See Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of our guarantee.
(g)
Commitments for oil and gas exploration (non-capital) include estimated costs related to contractually obligated exploratory work programs that are expensed immediately, such as geological and geophysical costs.
(h)
We have obligations consisting of pensions and other postretirement benefits including medical and life insurance. We have estimated projected funding requirements through 2016.
(i)
Includes $581 million of contractual cash obligations that have been assumed by United States Steel. For additional information, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity  Obligations Associated with the Separation of United States Steel  Summary of Contractual Cash Obligations Assumed by United States Steel" on page 49.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
        Off-balance sheet arrangements comprise those arrangements that may potentially impact our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations, even though such arrangements are not recorded as liabilities under generally accepted accounting principles. Although off-balance sheet arrangements serve a variety of our business purposes, we are not dependent on these arrangements to maintain our liquidity and capital resources; and we are not aware of any circumstances that are reasonably likely to cause the off-balance sheet arrangements to have a material adverse effect on liquidity and capital resources.
        We have provided various forms of guarantees to unconsolidated affiliates, United States Steel and others. These arrangements are described in Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
16
We are a party to an agreement that would require us to purchase, under certain circumstances, the interest in Pilot Travel Centers LLC ("PTC") not currently owned. This put/call agreement is described in Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
Nonrecourse Indebtedness of Investees
        Certain of our investees have incurred indebtedness that we do not support through guarantees or otherwise. If we were obligated to share in this debt on a pro rata ownership basis, our share would have been $340 million as of December 31, 2006. Of this amount, $217 million relates to PTC. If any of these investees default, we have no obligation to support the debt. Our partner in PTC has guaranteed $75 million of the total PTC debt.
Obligations Associated with the Separation of United States Steel
        On December 31, 2001, we disposed of our steel business through a tax-free distribution of the common stock of our wholly owned subsidiary, United States Steel, to holders of our USX  U. S. Steel Group class of common stock in exchange for all outstanding shares of Steel Stock on a one-for-one basis.
        We remain obligated (primarily or contingently) for certain debt and other financial arrangements for which United States Steel has assumed responsibility for repayment under the terms of the Separation. United States Steel's obligations to Marathon are general unsecured obligations that rank equal to United States Steel's accounts payable and other general unsecured obligations. If United States Steel fails to satisfy these obligations, we would become responsible for repayment. Under the Financial Matters Agreement, United States Steel has all of the existing contractual rights under the leases assumed from Marathon, including all rights related to purchase options, prepayments or the grant or release of security interests. However, United States Steel has no right to increase amounts due under or lengthen the term of any of the assumed leases, other than extensions set forth in the terms of the assumed leases.
        As of December 31, 2006, we have identified the following obligations totaling $564 million that have been assumed by United States Steel:
 - 
$415 million of industrial revenue bonds related to environmental improvement projects for current and former United States Steel facilities, with maturities ranging from 2009 through 2033. Accrued interest payable on these bonds was $11 million at December 31, 2006.
 - 
$60 million of sale-leaseback financing under a lease for equipment at United States Steel's Fairfield Works, with a term extending to 2012, subject to extensions. There was no accrued interest payable on this financing at December 31, 2006.
 - 
$44 million of obligations under a lease for equipment at United States Steel's Clairton coke-making facility, with a term extending to 2012. There was no accrued interest payable on this financing at December 31, 2006.
 - 
$34 million of operating lease obligations, $31 million of which was in turn assumed by purchasers of major equipment used in plants and operations divested by United States Steel.
 - 
A guarantee of all obligations of United States Steel as general partner of Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. to the limited partners. United States Steel has reported that it currently has no unpaid outstanding obligations to the limited partners. For further discussion of the Clairton 1314B guarantee, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
        Of the total $564 million, obligations of $530 million and corresponding receivables from United States Steel were recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2006 (current portion  $32 million; long-term portion  $498 million). The remaining $34 million was related to off-balance sheet arrangements and contingent liabilities of United States Steel.
17
        The table below provides aggregated information on the portion of our obligations to make future payments under existing contracts that have been assumed by United States Steel as of December 31, 2006:
(a)
We anticipate cash payments for interest of $23 million for 2007, $46 million for 2008-2009, $45 million for 2010-2011 and $239 million for the later years to be assumed by United States Steel.
        Marathon and United States Steel have entered into a tax sharing agreement that allocates tax liabilities relating to taxable periods ended on or before December 31, 2001. In 2006 and 2005, in accordance with the terms of the tax sharing agreement, we paid $35 million and $6 million to United States Steel in connection with the settlement with the Internal Revenue Service of the consolidated federal income tax returns of USX Corporation for the years 1995 through 2001. The final payment of $13 million to United States Steel related to U.S. federal income tax returns under the tax sharing agreement was made in January 2007.
        United States Steel reported in its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, that it has significant restrictive covenants related to its indebtedness including cross-default and cross-acceleration clauses on selected debt that could have an adverse effect on its financial position and liquidity. However, United States Steel management believes that its liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future.
Transactions with Related Parties
        We own a 63 percent working interest in the Alba field offshore Equatorial Guinea. We own a 52 percent interest in an onshore LPG processing plant in EG through an equity method investee, Alba Plant LLC. Additionally, we own a 45 percent interest in an onshore methanol production plant through AMPCO, an equity method investee. We sell our marketed natural gas from the Alba field to Alba Plant LLC and AMPCO. AMPCO uses the natural gas to manufacture methanol and sells the methanol through another equity method investee, AMPCO Marketing LLC.
        Sales to our 50 percent equity method investee, PTC, which consists primarily of refined petroleum products, accounted for two percent or less of our total sales revenue for 2006, 2005 and 2004. PTC is the largest travel center network in the United States and operates 269 travel centers in the United States and Canada. Prior to the Acquisition on June 30, 2005, Ashland was a related party as a result of its 38 percent minority interest in MPC. During that time, we sold refined petroleum products consisting mainly of petrochemicals, base lube oils and asphalt to Ashland. Our sales to Ashland accounted for less than one percent of our total sales revenue for 2005 and 2004. We believe that these transactions were conducted under terms comparable to those with unrelated parties.
        Marathon holds a 60 percent interest, SONAGAS holds a 25 percent interest, Mitsui holds an 8.5 percent interest and Marubeni holds a 6.5 percent interest in EGHoldings. As of December 31, 2006, total expenditures of $1.363 billion, including $1.300 billion of capital expenditures, related to the Equatorial Guinea LNG production facility have been incurred. Cash of $234 million held in escrow to fund future contributions from SONAGAS to EGHoldings is classified as restricted cash and is included in investments and long-term receivables as of December 31, 2006. Our current receivables from and payables to the interest holders in EGHoldings are $13 million and $232 million as of December 31, 2006, including a payable to SONAGAS of $229 million.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies
        We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. If these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our operating results will be adversely affected. We believe that substantially all of our competitors must comply with similar environmental laws and regulations. However, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and
18
location of its operating facilities, marketing areas, production processes and whether it is also engaged in the petrochemical business or the marine transportation of crude oil and refined products.
        Our environmental expenditures for each of the last three years were:
(a)
(a)
Amounts are determined based on American Petroleum Institute survey guidelines.
(b)
These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, where permissible, but exclude non-cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation.
        Our environmental capital expenditures accounted for 5 percent of capital expenditures for continuing operations in 2006, 14 percent in 2005 and 20 percent in 2004.
        We accrue for environmental remediation activities when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs can be reasonably estimated. As environmental remediation matters proceed toward ultimate resolution or as additional remediation obligations arise, charges in excess of those previously accrued may be required.
        New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase our environmental costs, may arise in the future. We comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since not all of them are fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation or regulations, it is not possible to predict all of the ultimate costs of compliance, including remediation costs that may be incurred and penalties that may be imposed.
        Our environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $159 million or 8 percent of capital expenditures in 2007. Predictions beyond 2007 can only be broad-based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies, among other matters. Based on currently identified projects, we anticipate that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $277 million in 2008; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed.
        Of particular significance to our refining operations were U.S. EPA regulations that required reduced sulfur levels starting in 2004 for gasoline and 2006 for diesel fuel. We achieved compliance with these regulations and began production of ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel for on-road use prior to the June 1, 2006 deadline. The cost of achieving compliance with these regulations was approximately $850 million. We will also be spending approximately $250 million from 2006 through 2010 to produce ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel for off-road use. Further, we estimate that we will spend approximately $400 million over a four-year period beginning in 2008 to comply with Mobile Source Air Toxics II regulations relating to benzene. This is a preliminary estimate as the Mobile Source Air Toxics II regulations should be finalized in the first half of 2007.
        During 2001, MPC entered into a New Source Review consent decree and settlement of alleged Clean Air Act and other violations with the EPA covering all of its refineries. The settlement committed MPC to specific control technologies and implementation schedules for environmental expenditures and improvements to its refineries over approximately an eight-year period. In addition, MPC has been working on certain agreed upon supplemental environmental projects as part of this settlement of an enforcement action for alleged CAA violations and these have been substantially completed.
        The oil industry across the U.K. continental shelf is making reductions in the amount of oil in its produced water discharges pursuant to the Department of Trade and Industry initiative under the Oil Pollution Prevention and Control Regulations ("OSPAR") of 2005. In compliance with these regulations, we have almost completed our OSPAR project for the Brae field to make the required reductions of oil in its produced water discharges. Our share of capital costs for the project is $7 million.
        For information on legal proceedings related to environmental matters, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings."
19
Outlook
Capital, Investment and Exploration Budget
        We approved a capital, investment and exploration budget of $4.242 billion for 2007, which includes budgeted capital expenditures of $3.886 billion. This represents a 16 percent increase over 2006 actual spending. The primary focus of the 2007 budget is to find additional oil and natural gas reserves, develop existing fields, strengthen RM&T assets and continue implementation of the integrated gas strategy. The budget includes worldwide production spending of $1.429 billion primarily in the United States, Norway, Libya and Ireland. The worldwide exploration budget of $802 million includes plans to drill 14 to 17 significant exploration or appraisal wells. Other activities will focus primarily on areas within or adjacent to our onshore producing properties in the United States. The budget includes $1.464 billion for RM&T, primarily for refining projects including the 180 mbpd Garyville refinery expansion project and the FEED for a potential Detroit refinery heavy oil upgrading project which would allow us to process increased volumes of Canadian oil sands production. The RM&T budget also includes increased investments in transportation and logistics, a strategically important area of the business, including the expansion of our ethanol blending capabilities at terminals in the Midwest and Southeast. The integrated gas budget of $331 million is primarily for completion of the LNG processing facility in Equatorial Guinea, as well as FEED expenditures associated with a potential expansion of that facility. The remaining $216 million is designated for capitalized interest and corporate activities.
Exploration and Production
        The seven announced discoveries in 2006 (six in deepwater Angola and one in Norway) resulted from our balanced exploration strategy which places an emphasis on near-term production opportunities, while retaining an appropriate exposure to longer-term options. Major exploration activities, which are currently underway or under evaluation, include those:
 - 
offshore Angola, where we have participated in 13 discoveries on Block 31, in which we hold a 10 percent outside-operated interest. In 2006, we announced the Urano, Titania and Terra discoveries, as well as an unnamed discovery. Current plans call for a potential development area in the northeastern part of Block 31, which encompasses the Plutao, Saturno, Marte, Venus and Terra discoveries. The remaining discoveries are being evaluated for potential development. We have secured rig capacity for and plan to participate in exploration wells on Block 31 during 2007;
 - 
offshore Angola on Block 32 in which we hold a 30 percent outside-operated interest and where we participated in five discoveries through 2006, Gindungo, Canela, Gengibre, Mostarda and Salsa, and announced two additional discoveries in 2007, Manjericao and Caril. These discoveries move Block 32 closer toward establishment of a commercial development. We have secured rig capacity for and plan to participate in exploration wells on Block 32 during 2007;
 - 
in Equatorial Guinea, where we are evaluating development scenarios for the Deep Luba and Gardenia discoveries on the Alba Block, one of which includes production through the Alba field infrastructure and the future LNG production facility on Bioko Island. We own a 63 percent interest in the Alba Block and serve as operator;
 - 
in Norway, where we now own interests in 15 licenses in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea and plan to drill one or two exploration wells during 2007; and
 - 
in the Gulf of Mexico, where we plan to participate in two to three exploration wells during 2007. We have secured rig capacity to drill two wells and our ability to drill the third well depends upon securing additional rig capacity.
        During 2006, we continued to make progress in advancing key development projects that will help serve as the basis for our production growth profile in the coming years. Major development and production activities currently underway or under evaluation include those:
 - 
in Libya, where we re-entered the Waha concessions at the end of 2005 and achieved first production in January 2006. We continue to work with our partners to maximize the potential of this major asset. We own a 16.33 percent outside-operated interest in the approximately 13 million acre Waha concessions;
 - 
in Norway, where our Alvheim/Vilje development will consist of a floating production, storage and offloading vessel with subsea infrastructure for five drill centers and associated flow lines. Construction on the project is nearly complete and commissioning has commenced. First production is expected during the second quarter 2007, at which time four wells will be available, and drilling activities will continue into 2008. A peak net production rate of 75 mboepd is expected in early 2008. The Alvheim development includes the Kneler, Boa
20
and Kameleon fields in which we own a 65 percent interest and serve as operator. We own a 47 percent outside-operated interest in the nearby Vilje discovery. Also, plans for development of the Volund discovery as a tie-back to the Alvheim development were approved by the Norwegian Government in early 2007. First production is expected from Volund in the second quarter of 2009. We own a 65 percent interest in Volund and serve as operator;
 - 
in the Gulf of Mexico, where the Neptune development is on target for first production by early 2008. We own a 30 percent outside-operated interest in Neptune;
 - 
in Ireland, where the Corrib natural gas development project has re-commenced and we expect first production in 2009. We own a 19 percent outside-operated interest in Corrib;
 - 
in the Piceance Basin where we plan to drill approximately 700 wells over the next ten years, with first production expected in late 2007; and
 - 
in the Bakken Shale where we plan to drill approximately 300 locations over the next five years.
        We estimate that our 2007 production available for sale will average approximately 390 to 425 mboepd, excluding the impact of acquisitions and dispositions. With the developments we have under construction, we estimate our production available for sale will grow to 465 to 520 mboepd by 2010, excluding acquisitions and dispositions. Projected liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production available for sale is based on a number of assumptions, including (among others) pricing, supply and demand for petroleum products, the amount of capital available for exploration and development, regulatory constraints, production decline rates of mature fields, timing of commencing production from new wells, drilling rig availability, inability or delay in obtaining necessary government and third-party approvals and permits, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, acts of war or terrorist acts and the government or military response, and other geological, operating and economic considerations. These assumptions may prove to be inaccurate.
        In 2006, we issued a request for proposals to engage interested parties in a process that could lead to a Canadian oil sands venture. This process is intended to explore various commercial arrangements under which we would provide heavy Canadian oil sands crude oil processing capacity in exchange for an equity interest in a Canadian oil sands project through a joint venture, or other alternative business arrangements that potential partners may choose to propose.
        The above discussion includes forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future exploratory and development drilling, the possibility of developing Blocks 31 and 32 offshore Angola, the timing of production from the Neptune development, the Piceance Basin, the combined Alvheim/Vilje development, the Volund field and the Corrib project. Some factors which could potentially affect these forward-looking statements include pricing, supply and demand for petroleum products, the amount of capital available for exploration and development, regulatory constraints, drilling rig availability, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, acts of war or terrorist acts and the governmental or military response, and other geological, operating and economic considerations. Except for the Alvheim/Vilje and Volund developments, the foregoing forward-looking statements may be further affected by the inability to or delay in obtaining necessary government and third-party approvals and permits. The possible developments in Blocks 31 and 32 could further be affected by presently known data concerning size and character of reservoirs, economic recoverability, future drilling success and production experience. The above discussion also contains forward-looking statements concerning a potential Canadian oil sands venture. Factors that could affect the formation of a Canadian oil sands venture include unforeseen difficulty in negotiation of definitive agreements, results of front-end engineering and design work, inability or delay in obtaining necessary government and third-party approvals, continued favorable investment climate, and other geological, operating and economic considerations. The foregoing factors (among others) could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
Refining, Marketing and Transportation
        Throughout 2006, we remained focused on our strategy of leveraging refining and marketing investments in core markets, as well as expanding and enhancing our asset base while controlling costs. Our 2006 average daily crude oil throughput exceeded the record throughput achieved in 2005.
        In 2006, our Board of Directors approved a projected $3.2 billion expansion of our Garyville refinery by 180 mbpd to 425 mbpd, which will increase our total refining capacity to 1.154 mmbpd. We recently received air permit approval from the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality for this project and construction is expected to begin in mid-2007, with startup planned for the fourth quarter of 2009. When completed, this expansion will enable the refinery to provide an additional 7.5 million gallons of clean transportation fuels to the market each day.
21
        We have also commenced front-end engineering and design for a potential heavy oil upgrading project at our Detroit refinery which would allow us to process increased volumes of Canadian oil sand production and are undertaking a feasibility study for a similar upgrading project at our Catlettsburg refinery.
        In 2006, we signed a definitive agreement forming a joint venture that will construct and operate one or more ethanol production plants. Our partner in the joint venture will provide the day-to-day management of the plants, as well as grain procurement, and distillers dried grain marketing and ethanol management services. This venture will enable us to maintain the reliability of a portion of our future ethanol supplies. Together with our partner, we selected the venture's initial plan site, Greenville, Ohio, and construction has commenced on a 110 million gallon per year ethanol facility. The facility is expected to be operational as soon as the first quarter of 2008.
        The above discussion includes forward-looking statements concerning the planned expansion of the Garyville refinery, potential heavy oil refining upgrading projects and a joint venture that would construct and operate ethanol plants. Some factors that could affect the Garyville expansion project and the ethanol plant construction, management and development include necessary government and third party approvals, transportation logistics, availability of materials and labor, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions and other risks customarily associated with construction projects. The Garyville project may be further affected by crude oil supply. These factors (among others) could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect the heavy oil refining upgrading projects include unforeseen difficulty in negotiation of definitive agreements, results of front-end engineering and design work, approval of our Board of Directors, inability or delay in obtaining necessary government and third-party approvals, continued favorable investment climate, and other geological, operating and economic considerations.
Integrated Gas
        Construction of the LNG production facility in Equatorial Guinea continues ahead of its original schedule with the first shipments of LNG projected for the second quarter of 2007. Construction is nearly complete and commissioning has commenced. We own a 60 percent interest in Equatorial Guinea LNG Holdings Limited. We are currently seeking additional natural gas supplies to allow full utilization of this LNG facility, which is designed to have a higher capacity and a longer life than the current contract to supply 3.4 million metric tons per year for 17 years.
        Once the Equatorial Guinea LNG production facility commences its principal operations and begins to generate revenue, we must assess whether or not EGHoldings continues to be a variable interest entity ("VIE"). We consolidate EGHoldings because it is a VIE and we are its primary beneficiary. Despite the fact that we hold majority ownership, we would not consolidate EGHoldings if it ceased to be a VIE because the minority shareholders have substantive participating rights. If EGHoldings ceased to be a VIE, we would account for our interest using the equity method of accounting.
        In 2006, with our project partners, we awarded a FEED contract for initial work related to a potential second LNG production facility on Bioko Island, Equatorial Guinea. The FEED work is expected to be completed during 2007. The scope of the FEED work for the potential 4.4 million metric tones per annum LNG facility includes feed gas metering, liquefaction, refrigeration, ethylene storage, boil off gas compression, product transfer to storage and LNG product metering. A final investment decision is expected in early 2008.
        Atlantic Methanol Production Company LLC underwent a scheduled maintenance shutdown in 2006, during which bottlenecks in several parts of the plant were also removed. Deliveries resumed in October 2006 and AMPCO expects to reach its full expansion capacity during 2007.
        The above discussion contains forward looking statements with respect to the timing and levels of production associated with the LNG production facility and the possible expansion thereof. Factors that could affect the LNG production facility include unforeseen problems arising from commissioning of the facilities, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions and other operating considerations such as shipping the LNG. In addition to these factors, other factors that could potentially affect the possible expansion of the current LNG production facility and the development of additional LNG capacity through additional projects include partner approvals, access to sufficient natural gas volumes through exploration or commercial negotiations with other resource owners and access to sufficient regasification capacity. The foregoing factors (among others) could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
22
Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted
        In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." This statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. It requires that unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected be recorded in net income. The statement also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. For us, SFAS No. 159 will be effective January 1, 2008, and retrospective application is not permitted. Should we elect to apply the fair value option to any eligible items that exist at January 1, 2008, the effect of the first remeasurement to fair value would be reported as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. We are currently evaluating the provisions of this statement.
        In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements." This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements but may require some entities to change their measurement practices. For us, SFAS No. 157 will be effective January 1, 2008, with early application permitted. We are currently evaluating the provisions of this statement.
        In September 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. AUG AIR-1, "Accounting for Planned Major Maintenance Activities." This FSP prohibits the use of the accrue-in-advance method of accounting for planned major maintenance activities in annual and interim financial reporting periods. We expense such costs in the same annual period as incurred; however, estimated annual major maintenance costs are recognized as expense throughout the year on a pro rata basis. As such, adoption of FSP No. AUG AIR-1 will have no impact on our annual consolidated financial statements. We are required to adopt the FSP effective January 1, 2007. We do not believe the provisions of FSP No. AUG AIR-1 will have a significant impact on our interim consolidated financial statements.
        In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109." FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." FIN No. 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The new standard also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, transition and disclosure. For us, the provisions of FIN No. 48 are effective January 1, 2007. We do not believe adoption of this statement will have a significant effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
        In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, "Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets  An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 140." This statement amends SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities," with respect to the accounting for separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities. We are required to adopt SFAS No. 156 effective January 1, 2007. We do not expect adoption of this statement to have a significant effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
        In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, "Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140." SFAS No. 155 simplifies the accounting for certain hybrid financial instruments, eliminates the interim FASB guidance which provides that beneficial interests in securitized financial assets are not subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," and eliminates the restriction on the passive derivative instruments that a qualifying special-purpose entity may hold. For us, SFAS No. 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued on or after January 1, 2007. We do not expect adoption of this statement to have a significant effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
23
QuickLinks
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Overview
2006 Operating Highlights
Critical Accounting Estimates
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations
E&P Operating Statistics
RM&T Operating Statistics
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity
Summary of Contractual Cash Obligations
Summary of Contractual Cash Obligations Assumed by United States Steel
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies
Outlook
Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.4
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchase of Equity Securities
        The principal market on which Marathon's common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. Marathon's common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales prices for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in "Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page F-42.
        As of January 31, 2007, there were 64,646 registered holders of Marathon common stock.
        The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on Marathon common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of Marathon Oil Corporation, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation to do so. In determining its dividend policy with respect to Marathon common stock, the Board will rely on the consolidated financial statements of Marathon. Dividends on Marathon common stock are limited to legally available funds of Marathon.
        The following table provides information about purchases by Marathon and its affiliated purchaser during the quarter ended December 31, 2006 of equity securities that are registered by Marathon pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act:
(a)
46,872 shares of restricted stock were delivered by employees to Marathon, upon vesting, to satisfy tax withholding requirements.
(b)
Under the terms of the Acquisition, Marathon paid Ashland shareholders cash in lieu of issuing fractional shares of Marathon's common stock to which such holder would otherwise be entitled. Marathon acquired 7 shares due to Acquisition exchanges and Ashland share transfers pending at the time of closing of the Acquisition.
(c)
15,711 shares were repurchased in open-market transactions to satisfy the requirements for dividend reinvestment under the Marathon Oil Corporation Dividend Reinvestment and Direct Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan") by the administrator of the Plan. Stock needed to meet the requirements of the Plan are either purchased in the open market or issued directly by Marathon.
(d)
In January 2006, we announced a $2 billion share repurchase program. In January 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the extension of this program by an additional $500 million. As of February 21, 2007, the Company had repurchased 48.3 million split-adjusted common shares at a cost of $2 billion.
QuickLinks
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchase of Equity Securities
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.5
Part I  Financial Information Item 1. Financial Statements
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Amounts for all periods have been restated to reflect the June 18, 2007 two-for-one stock split as discussed in Note 13.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Amounts for all periods have been restated to reflect the June 18, 2007 two-for-one stock split as discussed in Note 13.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
1.     Basis of Presentation
These consolidated financial statements are unaudited but, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the periods reported. All such adjustments are of a normal recurring nature unless disclosed otherwise. These consolidated financial statements, including selected notes, have been prepared in accordance with the applicable rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and do not include all of the information and disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for complete financial statements. Certain reclassifications of prior year data have been made to conform to 2007 classifications. These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Marathon Oil Corporation ("Marathon" or the "Company") 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
2.     New Accounting Standards
In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. AUG AIR-1, "Accounting for Planned Major Maintenance Activities." This FSP prohibits the use of the accrue-in-advance method of accounting for planned major maintenance activities in annual and interim financial reporting periods. Marathon adopted FSP No. AUG AIR-1 effective January 1, 2007. Prior to adoption, Marathon expensed such costs in the same annual period as incurred; however, estimated annual major maintenance costs were recognized as expense throughout the year on a pro rata basis. As such, the adoption of this FSP has no impact on Marathon's annual consolidated financial statements. The FSP has not been applied retrospectively because the impact on the Company's prior interim consolidated financial statements was not significant.
In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109." FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." FIN No. 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The new standard also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, transition and disclosure. Marathon adopted FIN No. 48 effective January 1, 2007, and adoption did not have a significant effect on its consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. See Note 7 for other disclosures required by FIN No. 48.
In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, "Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets  An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 140." This statement amends SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities," with respect to the accounting for separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities. Marathon adopted SFAS No. 156 effective January 1, 2007, and adoption did not have a significant effect on its consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, "Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140." SFAS No. 155 simplifies the accounting for certain hybrid financial instruments, eliminates the interim FASB guidance which provides that beneficial interests in securitized financial assets are not subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," and eliminates the restriction on the passive derivative instruments that a qualifying special-purpose entity may hold. Effective January 1, 2007, Marathon adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 155 prospectively for all financial instruments acquired or issued on or after January 1, 2007. Adoption of this statement did not have a significant effect on Marathon's consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
3.     Discontinued Operations
On June 2, 2006, Marathon sold its Russian oil exploration and production businesses in the Khanty-Mansiysk region of western Siberia. A gain on the sale of $243 million ($342 million before income taxes) was reported in discontinued operations in the second quarter of 2006. The final adjustment to the sales price is expected to be made in 2007 and could affect the reported gain.
The activities of the Russian businesses have been reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income and cash flows for the first quarter of 2006. Revenues applicable to discontinued operations were $98 million and pretax income from discontinued operations was $21 million for the first quarter of 2006.
4.     Income per Common Share
Basic income per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted income per share assumes exercise of stock options, provided the effect is not antidilutive.
5.     Segment Information
Marathon's operations consist of three reportable operating segments:
1)
Exploration and Production ("E&P")  explores for, produces and markets crude oil and natural gas on a worldwide basis;
2)
Refining, Marketing and Transportation ("RM&T")  refines, markets and transports crude oil and petroleum products, primarily in the Midwest, the upper Great Plains and southeastern United States; and
3)
Integrated Gas ("IG")  markets and transports products manufactured from natural gas, such as liquefied natural gas ("LNG") and methanol, on a worldwide basis, and is developing other projects to link stranded natural gas resources with key demand areas.
As discussed in Note 3 above, the Russian businesses sold in June 2006 were accounted for as discontinued operations. Segment information for the first quarter of 2006 excludes the amounts for these Russian operations.
(a)
Management believes intersegment transactions were conducted under terms comparable to those with unrelated parties.
(b)
Differences between segment totals and Marathon totals represent amounts related to corporate administrative activities and other unallocated items and are included in "Items not allocated to segments, net of income taxes" in the reconciliation below.
(c)
Differences between segment totals and Marathon totals represent amounts related to corporate administrative activities.
The following reconciles segment income to net income as reported in the consolidated statements of income:
6.     Defined Benefit Postretirement Plans
The following summarizes the components of net periodic benefit cost:
During the first quarter of 2007, Marathon made contributions of $40 million to its international funded pension plans. Marathon expects to make additional contributions of approximately $10 million to its funded pension plans over the remainder of 2007. Contributions made from the general assets of Marathon to cover current benefit payments related to unfunded pension and other postretirement benefit plans were $2 million and $7 million during the first quarter of 2007.
7.     Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes for interim periods is based on management's best estimate of the effective income tax rate expected to be applicable for the year plus any adjustments arising from a change in the estimated amount of taxes related to prior periods. The following is an analysis of the effective income tax rates for the periods presented:
As of January 1, 2007, total unrecognized tax benefits were $48 million. If these amounts were recognized, $30 million would affect Marathon's effective income tax rate. There are no uncertain income tax positions as of January 1, 2007 for which it is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits would significantly increase or decrease during 2007.
Marathon is continuously undergoing examination of its U.S. federal income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service. The audit of the 2004 and 2005 U.S. federal income tax returns commenced in May 2006 and is ongoing. Marathon believes it has made adequate provision for federal income taxes and interest which may become payable for years not yet settled. Further, Marathon is routinely involved in U.S. state and local income tax audits and foreign jurisdiction tax audits. Marathon's income tax returns remain subject to examination in the following major tax jurisdictions for the tax years indicated:
(a)
Includes federal, state and local jurisdictions.
In connection with the adoption of FIN No. 48, Marathon changed the presentation of interest and penalties related to income taxes in the consolidated statement of income. Effective January 1, 2007, such interest and penalties are prospectively recorded as part of the provision for income taxes. Prior to January 1, 2007, Marathon recorded such interest as part of net interest and other financing costs and such penalties as selling, general and administrative expenses. As of January 1, 2007, $17 million of interest and penalties was accrued related to income taxes.
8.     Comprehensive Income
The following sets forth Marathon's comprehensive income for the periods indicated:
9.     Inventories
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market value. The cost of inventories of crude oil, refined products and merchandise is determined primarily under the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method.
10.   Commitments and Contingencies
Marathon is the subject of, or party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to Marathon's consolidated financial statements. However, management believes that Marathon will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Certain of the Company's commitments are discussed below.
Contract commitments  
At March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, Marathon's contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $2.242 billion and $1.703 billion. During the first quarter of 2007, the majority of additional contract commitments were related to the expansion of the Company's Garyville, Louisiana, refinery.
11.   Stock Repurchase Program
On January 29, 2006, Marathon's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2 billion of common stock. On January 28, 2007, the share repurchase program was extended by an additional $500 million. Purchases under the program may be in either open market transactions, including block purchases, or in privately negotiated transactions. The Company will use cash on hand, cash generated from operations or cash from available borrowings to acquire shares. This program may be changed based upon the Company's financial condition or changes in market conditions and is subject to termination prior to completion. As of March 31, 2007, the Company had acquired 51.6 million common shares at a cost of $2.150 billion under the program, including 10 million common shares acquired during the first quarter of 2007 at a cost of $452 million.
12.   Supplemental Cash Flow Information
13.   Subsequent Events
On April 25, 2007, Marathon's stockholders approved an increase in the number of authorized shares of common stock from 550 million to 1.1 billion shares, and the Company's Board of Directors subsequently declared a two-for-one split of the Company's common stock. The stock split was effected in the form of a stock dividend distributed on June 18, 2007, to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 23, 2007. Stockholders received one additional share of Marathon Oil Corporation common stock for each share of common stock held as of the close of business on the record date. In addition, shares of common stock issued or issuable for stock-based awards under Marathon's incentive compensation plans were proportionately increased in accordance with the terms of the plans. Common stock and per share (except par value) information for all periods presented has been restated in the consolidated financial statements and notes to reflect the stock split.
In July 2007, Marathon entered an agreement to purchase Western Oil Sands Inc. ("Western"). Under the terms of the agreement, Western shareholders will receive cash of 3.808 billion Canadian dollars and 34.3 million shares of Marathon common stock and securities exchangeable for Marathon common stock. The agreement requires Western to spin off a wholly-owned subsidiary with interests in the Federal Region of Kurdistan in northern Iraq prior to closing. The transaction is contingent upon Western shareholder approval and applicable regulatory approvals and is anticipated to close in the fourth quarter of 2007.
The stock repurchase program discussed in Note 11 was extended by $2 billion in July 2007, for a total authorized program of $5 billion. Purchases under the program may be in either open market transactions, including block purchases, or in privately negotiated transactions. The Company will use cash on hand, cash generated from operations, proceeds from potential asset sales or cash from available borrowings to acquire shares. This program may be changed based upon the Company's financial condition or changes in market conditions and is subject to termination prior to completion. The repurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables.
14.   Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." This statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. It requires that unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected be recorded in net income. The statement also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. For Marathon, SFAS No. 159 will be effective January 1, 2008, and retrospective application is not permitted. Should Marathon elect to apply the fair value option to any eligible items that exist at January 1, 2008, the effect of the first remeasurement to fair value would be reported as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. Marathon is currently evaluating the provisions of this statement.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements." This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements but may require some entities to change their measurement practices. For Marathon, SFAS No. 157 will be effective January 1, 2008. Marathon is currently evaluating the provisions of this statement.
QuickLinks
MARATHON OIL CORPORATION Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
MARATHON OIL CORPORATION Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
MARATHON OIL CORPORATION Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
MARATHON OIL CORPORATION Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited)

Exhibit 99.6
Item 2.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
        Marathon Oil Corporation is engaged in worldwide exploration, production and marketing of crude oil and natural gas; domestic refining, marketing and transportation of crude oil and petroleum products, primarily in the Midwest, the upper Great Plains and southeastern United States; and worldwide marketing and transportation of products manufactured from natural gas, such as LNG and methanol, and development of other projects to link stranded natural gas resources with key demand areas. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Selected Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Supplemental Statistics and our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
        Certain sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations include forward-looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting our business. These statements typically contain words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "targets," "plans," "projects," "could," "may," "should," "would" or similar words indicating that future outcomes are uncertain. In accordance with "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, which could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For additional risk factors affecting our business, see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
        Marathon holds a 60 percent interest in Equatorial Guinea LNG Holdings Limited ("EGHoldings"). The remaining interests are held by Sociedad Nacional de Gas de Guinea Equatorial ("SONAGAS") (25 percent interest), Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (8.5 percent interest) and a subsidiary of Marubeni Corporation (6.5 percent interest). Unless specifically noted as being after minority interests, amounts for the Integrated Gas segment include amounts related to these minority interests.
Overview and Outlook
Operational Highlights
During the first quarter of 2007, we:
 - 
Announced three exploration discoveries in deepwater Angola;
 - 
Announced the Droshky discovery in the Gulf of Mexico;
 - 
Progressed the Neptune development in deepwater Gulf of Mexico, with first production expected by early 2008;
 - 
Continued commissioning of the Alvheim/Vilje project in Norway;
 - 
Commenced construction of the Garyville, Louisiana, refinery expansion;
 - 
Continued construction of the 110 million gallon per year joint venture ethanol facility in Greenville, Ohio; and
 - 
Continued commissioning activities on the Equatorial Guinea LNG production facility, with first shipment of LNG expected in the second quarter of 2007.
Exploration and Production ("E&P")
        Net liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas sales during the first quarter of 2007 averaged 339 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day ("mboepd"). Sales volumes may vary from production available for sale primarily due to the timing of liquid hydrocarbon liftings and natural gas sales from certain of our international operations.
        During the first quarter of 2007, we announced three exploration successes in deepwater Angola and one in the Gulf of Mexico. The Caril and Manjericao discovery wells are located on Block 32 in deepwater Angola, where we hold a 30 percent outside-operated interest, and the Miranda discovery well is located on Block 31, where we hold a 10 percent outside-operated interest. These discoveries move both deepwater Angola blocks closer toward establishment of commercial developments. The Droshky discovery well (previously named Troika Deep) in the Gulf of Mexico is located on Green Canyon Block 244. One successful appraisal sidetrack well has been drilled and a second lateral appraisal sidetrack well is being drilled, which will complete our appraisal process. This potential development would be through the Troika Unit infrastructure, which is located approximately two miles from the well. We hold a 100 percent interest in the Droshky well and a 50 percent outside-operated interest in the Troika Unit.
        Also in Angola, we have participated in five wells on Blocks 31 and 32, the results of which have not been announced. We will announce details related to those wells upon approval of the Angola government.
        In Norway, the Alvheim/Vilje development project has entered the commissioning stage, during which additional work has been identified as necessary to bring the floating production, storage and offloading vessel ("FPSO") into compliance with Norwegian codes and regulations and to fully integrate the existing ship systems with the new topside facilities. This additional work, along with intense market demand for labor in Norway and additional drilling activity, has contributed to increased costs for the project. First production is now expected in the third quarter of 2007 and a peak net rate of approximately 75 mboepd is expected in 2008.
        Our 2007 production available for sale is still expected to average between 390 and 425 mboepd, excluding the impact of acquisitions and dispositions. This wide range considered the possibilities of delays in major project delivery dates; however, it is likely that actual production available for sale for the year will be at the lower end of this range as a result of the Alvheim delay.
        The above discussion includes forward-looking statements with respect to the Alvheim/Vilje and Neptune development projects, the possibility of developing Blocks 31 and 32 offshore Angola and the timing and levels of our worldwide liquid hydrocarbon, natural gas and condensate production available for sale. Some factors that could potentially affect these forward-looking statements include pricing, supply and demand for petroleum products, the amount of capital available for exploration and development, regulatory constraints, timing of commencing production from new wells, drilling rig availability, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, acts of war or terrorist acts and the governmental or military response, and other geological, operating and economic considerations. Except for the Alvheim/Vilje development, the foregoing forward-looking statements may be further affected by the inability to obtain or delay in obtaining necessary government and third-party approvals and permits. The possible developments on Blocks 31 and 32 could further be affected by presently known data concerning size and character of reservoirs, economic recoverability, future drilling success and production experience. The foregoing factors (among others) could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
Refining, Marketing and Transportation ("RM&T")
        In the first quarter of 2007, our total refinery throughput was four percent higher than the same quarter of 2006 and we expect refinery crude oil throughput during 2007 to exceed the record level we set in 2006. Our refining and wholesale marketing gross margin per gallon was higher in the first quarter of 2007 than the comparable period of 2006, however, the increase was primarily the result of the change in accounting for matching buy/sell arrangements effective April 1, 2006, as the sales volumes recognized during the first quarter of 2007 were less than the volumes that would have been recognized under previous accounting practices. Our refining and wholesale marketing gross margin averaged 12.46 cents per gallon in the first quarter of 2007 versus 11.37 cents per gallon in the first quarter of 2006. Our ethanol blending program increased to 37 thousand barrels per day ("mbpd") in the first quarter of 2007 from 30 mbpd in the first quarter of 2006. The future expansion or contraction of our ethanol blending program will be driven by the economics of the ethanol supply and changes in government regulations.
        Speedway SuperAmerica LLC ("SSA") increased same store merchandise sales by six percent and same store gasoline sales volume by three percent when compared to the first quarter of 2006. In addition, SSA's gasoline and distillates gross margin per gallon and merchandise gross margin were stronger in the first quarter of 2007.
        Construction of the Garyville refinery expansion commenced on schedule in early March 2007, including site clearing and preparation activities.
        The above discussion includes forward-looking statements with respect to projections of crude oil throughput and ethanol blending that could be affected by planned and unplanned refinery maintenance projects, the levels of refining margins and other operating considerations. These factors (among others) could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
Integrated Gas ("IG")
        Our significant integrated gas activities during the first quarter of 2007 related to the LNG production facility in Equatorial Guinea. Commissioning of the facility continues and the first shipments of LNG are expected in the second quarter of 2007. We own a 60 percent interest in EGHoldings.
        Once the LNG production facility commences its principal operations and begins to generate revenue, EGHoldings will no longer be a variable interest entity ("VIE"). We consolidate EGHoldings because it is a VIE and we are its primary beneficiary. When it ceases to be a VIE we will no longer consolidate EGHoldings, despite the fact that we hold majority ownership, because the minority shareholders have rights limiting our ability to exercise control over the entity. When EGHoldings ceases to be a VIE, which is expected in the second quarter of 2007, we will account for our interest using the equity method of accounting.
        Together with our project partners, we have completed those portions of the front-end engineering and design for a potential second LNG production facility on Bioko Island, Equatorial Guinea that are required to support the near-term efforts for this project. We expect a final investment decision in 2008.
        The above discussion contains forward-looking statements with respect to the timing of production associated with the LNG facility in Equatorial Guinea and the possible expansion thereof. Factors that could affect the LNG production facility include unforeseen problems arising from commissioning of the facilities, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions and other operating considerations such as shipping the LNG. In addition to these factors, other factors that could potentially affect the possible expansion of the current LNG production facility and the development of additional LNG capacity through additional projects include partner approvals, access to sufficient natural gas volumes through exploration or commercial negotiations with other resource owners and access to sufficient regasification capacity. The foregoing factors (among others) could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
Corporate
        On April 25, 2007, our Board of Directors declared a two-for-one split of our common stock. The stock split was effected in the form of a stock dividend distributed on June 18, 2007, to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 23, 2007. Stockholders received one additional share of our common stock for each share of common stock held as of the close of business on the record date. Common stock and per share (except par value) information for all periods presented has been restated throughout this document to reflect the stock split.
Critical Accounting Estimates
        The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the respective reporting periods. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
        Certain accounting estimates are considered to be critical if (1) the nature of the estimates and assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change; and (2) the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material.
        There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting estimates subsequent to December 31, 2006.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations
Change in Accounting for Matching Buy/Sell Transactions
        Matching buy/sell transactions arise from arrangements in which we agree to buy a specified quantity and quality of crude oil or refined product to be delivered to a specified location while simultaneously agreeing to sell a specified quantity and quality of the same commodity at a specified location to the same counterparty. Prior to April 1, 2006, all matching buy/sell transactions were recorded as separate sale and purchase transactions, or on a "gross" basis. Effective for contracts entered into or modified on or after April 1, 2006, the income effects of matching buy/sell transactions are reported in cost of revenues, or on a "net" basis, based on an accounting interpretation which clarified the circumstances under which a matching buy/sell transaction should be viewed as a single transaction involving the exchange of inventory. Transactions under contracts entered into before April 1, 2006 will continue to be reported on a "gross" basis. This accounting change had no effect on net income but the amounts of revenues and cost of revenues recognized after April 1, 2006 are less than the amounts that would have been recognized under previous accounting practices.
        Additionally, this accounting change impacts the comparability of certain operating statistics, most notably "refining and wholesale marketing gross margin per gallon." While this change does not have an effect on the refining and wholesale marketing gross margin (the numerator for calculating this statistic), sales volumes (the denominator for calculating this statistic) recognized after April 1, 2006 are less than the amount that would have been recognized under previous accounting practices because volumes related to matching buy/sell transactions under contracts entered into or modified on or after April 1, 2006 have been excluded. Accordingly, the resulting refining and wholesale marketing gross margin per gallon statistic will be higher than that same statistic calculated from amounts determined under previous accounting practices.
Consolidated Results of Operations
        
Revenues
for the first quarters of 2007 and 2006 are summarized by segment in the following table:
        
E&P segment revenues
decreased $452 million in the first quarter of 2007 from the comparable prior-year period. See Supplemental Statistics for information regarding net sales volumes and average realizations by geographic area. Decreased natural gas marketing activities account for the majority of the revenue decline. In addition, normal production rate declines, particularly for our Gulf of Mexico properties, caused domestic liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas sales volumes to decrease in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the first quarter of 2006. Our average realizations on domestic natural gas decreased 11 percent compared to the first quarter of 2006, while those on domestic liquid hydrocarbons were flat. Partially offsetting the decline in domestic revenue was an increase in revenues from our international operations. Liquid hydrocarbon sales volumes in Libya were higher in the first quarter of 2007 than in the comparable prior-year period due to the timing of liftings. The impact of increased liquid hydrocarbon sales volumes was partially offset by lower average realizations for both liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas and a 22 percent decline in natural gas sales volumes, primarily in Europe.
        Excluded from E&P segment revenues were gains of $21 million and $78 million for the first quarters of 2007 and 2006 related to long-term natural gas sales contracts in the United Kingdom that are accounted for as derivative instruments. See Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
        
RM&T segment revenues
decreased $3.128 billion in the first quarter of 2007 from the comparable prior-year period primarily as a result of the change in accounting for matching buy/sell transactions effective April 1, 2006, discussed above. Excluding matching buy/sell transactions, RM&T segment revenues did not change significantly but reflected increases in refined product and crude oil sales volumes, merchandise revenue and excise taxes, which were almost entirely offset by decreases in the prices realized for refined products.
        For information on segment income, see Segment Results.
        
Cost of revenues
for the first quarter of 2007 decreased $217 million from the comparable prior-year period, primarily as a result of the decreased natural gas marketing activities discussed above.
        
Purchases related to matching buy/sell transactions
decreased $3.172 billion in the first quarter of 2007 from the comparable prior-year period as a result of the change in accounting for matching buy/sell transactions effective April 1, 2006, discussed above.
        
Net interest and other financing costs (income)
reflected a net $19 million of income for the first quarter of 2007, a favorable change of $42 million from the net $23 million expense in the comparable prior-year period. The favorable changes included greater capitalized interest, increased interest income due to higher average cash balances and foreign currency exchange gains.
        
Provision for income taxes
in the first quarter of 2007 decreased $67 million from the comparable prior-year period primarily due to the $121 million decrease in income from continuing operations before income taxes. The following is an analysis of the effective tax rates for the first quarters of 2007 and 2006:
        
Discontinued operations
in the first quarter of 2006 reflects the operations of our former Russian oil exploration and production businesses which were sold in June 2006. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, for additional information.
Segment Results
        
Segment income
for the first quarters of 2007 and 2006 is summarized in the following table.
        
United States E&P income
in the first quarter of 2007 decreased $95 million, or 39 percent, compared to the first quarter of 2006. Pretax income decreased $150 million and the effective income tax rate increased slightly from 37 percent to 38 percent. The decrease in pretax income was primarily the result of revenue decreases from lower liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas sales volumes and realized natural gas prices as discussed above.
        
International E&P income
in the first quarter of 2007 increased $15 million, or 7 percent, from the first quarter of 2006, primarily due to the effective income tax rate decline from 60 percent to 58 percent. International pretax income was flat as a decrease in exploration expenses and an increase in revenues from higher liquid hydrocarbon sales volumes, primarily in Libya and Equatorial Guinea, were mostly offset by declines in natural gas sales volumes and in realized prices for liquid hydrocarbons and natural gas.
        
RM&T segment income
in the first quarter of 2007 increased $26 million, or 8 percent, from the first quarter of 2006. Pretax income increased $20 million and the effective income tax rate declined from 39 percent to 36 percent. The increase in RM&T pretax income is primarily a result of increases in SSA's gasoline and distillates gross margin and merchandise gross margin. The SSA gasoline and distillates gross margin averaged 12.17 cents per gallon in the first quarter of 2007 compared to 10.55 cents per gallon in the first quarter of 2006, while the merchandise gross margin grew to $160 million in the first quarter of 2007 from $148 million in the first quarter of 2006.
        
IG segment income
in the first quarter of 2007 increased $11 million, or 137 percent, from the first quarter of 2006 primarily as a result of increased income from Atlantic Methanol Production Company LLC ("AMPCO"). Average methanol prices realized by AMPCO were 48 percent higher in the first quarter of 2007 than they were in the comparable quarter of 2006.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Cash Flows and Liquidity
Cash Flows
        
Net cash provided from operating activities
totaled $1.026 billion in the first quarter of 2007, compared to $240 million in the first quarter of 2006. The $786 million increase reflects the impact of various working capital changes during the quarters.
        
Net cash used in investing activities
totaled $711 million in the first quarter of 2007, compared to $987 million in the first quarter of 2006. Capital expenditures were $737 million compared to $572 million for the comparable prior-year period, with the increased spending related primarily to the Neptune development project in the E&P segment and the Garyville refinery expansion in the RM&T segment. For information regarding capital expenditures by segment, refer to Supplemental Statistics. Cash paid for acquisitions in the first quarter of 2006 were $527 million, primarily related to the initial $520 million payment associated with our re-entry into Libya.
        
Net cash used in financing activities
was $555 million in the first quarter of 2007, compared to $604 million in the first quarter of 2006. Significant uses of cash in financing activities during both periods included stock repurchases and dividend payments. In 2006, we also repaid our $300 million 6.65% notes that matured during that quarter.
Dividends to Stockholders
        On April 25, 2007, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of 24 cents per share on our common stock, payable June 11, 2007, to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 16, 2007.
Derivative Instruments
        See Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
        Our main sources of liquidity and capital resources are internally generated cash flow from operations, committed credit facilities and access to both the debt and equity capital markets. Our ability to access the debt capital market is supported by our investment grade credit ratings. Our senior unsecured debt is currently rated investment grade by Standard and Poor's Corporation, Moody's Investor Services, Inc. and Fitch Ratings with ratings of BBB+, Baa1 and BBB+. Because of the liquidity and capital resource alternatives available to us, including internally generated cash flow, we believe that our short-term and long-term liquidity is adequate to fund operations, including our capital spending programs, stock repurchase program, repayment of debt maturities and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies.
        We have a committed $2.0 billion revolving credit facility with third-party financial institutions terminating in May 2011. We are in the process of working with the third-party financial institutions to extend the term of the revolving credit facility by one year to May 2012. We expect an amendment reflecting such one year extension will be executed during the second quarter of 2007 At March 31, 2007, there were no borrowings against this facility and we had no commercial paper outstanding under our U.S. commercial paper program that is backed by the revolving credit facility.
        The Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005 established certain incentives to support the rebuilding of local and regional economies in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama that were impacted by the hurricanes of 2005. Included in the impacted area is St. John the Baptist Parish, where our Garyville, Louisiana, refinery is located. The Louisiana State Bond Commission has approved the parish's application to issue up to $1 billion of bonds associated with the Garyville refinery expansion. Upon obtaining final approvals, we expect the parish to issue the bonds by the end of the third quarter of 2007. Following the issuance, the proceeds will be trusteed and disbursed to us upon our request for reimbursement of expenditures related to the Garyville refinery expansion. We will be solely obligated to service the principal and interest payments associated with the bonds.
        During 2006 we entered into a loan agreement which allows borrowings of up to $525 million from the Norwegian export credit agency based upon the amount of qualifying purchases of goods and services that we make from Norwegian suppliers. The loan agreement allows us to select either a fixed or LIBOR-based floating interest rate at the time of the initial drawdown and a five-year or eight and one half-year repayment term. The agreement allows an initial drawdown in June 2007 and we intend to draw the entire $525 million available at that date.
        As of March 31, 2007, there was $1.7 billion aggregate amount of common stock, preferred stock and other equity securities, debt securities, trust preferred securities or other securities, including securities convertible into or exchangeable for other equity or debt securities, available to be issued under our $2.7 billion universal shelf registration statement filed in 2002.
        Our cash-adjusted debt-to-capital ratio (total debt-minus-cash to total debt-plus-equity- minus-cash) was seven percent at March 31, 2007, compared to six percent at year-end 2006 as shown below. This includes $517 million of debt that is serviced by United States Steel Corporation ("United States Steel").
        Our opinions concerning liquidity and our ability to avail ourselves in the future of the financing options mentioned in the above forward-looking statements are based on currently available information. If this information proves to be inaccurate, future availability of financing may be adversely affected. Factors that affect the availability of financing include our performance (as measured by various factors including cash provided from operating activities), the state of worldwide debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations of past and future performance, the global financial climate, and, in particular, with respect to borrowings, the levels of our outstanding debt and credit ratings by rating agencies. The availability of the Gulf Opportunity Zone bonds could further be affected by the inability to obtain or delay in obtaining the necessary government approvals.
Stock Repurchase Program
        Our Board of Directors has authorized a common share repurchase program totaling $2.5 billion. As of March 31, 2007, we had repurchased 51.6 million common shares at a cost of $2.150 billion. We anticipate completing the remaining purchases during the first half of 2007. Purchases under the program may be in either open market transactions, including block purchases, or in privately negotiated transactions. We will use cash on hand, cash generated from operations or cash from available borrowings to acquire shares. This program may be changed based upon our financial condition or changes in market conditions and is subject to termination prior to completion.
        The forward-looking statements about our common stock repurchase program are based on current expectations, estimates and projections and are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations, estimates and projections and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are changes in prices of and demand for crude oil, natural gas and refined products, actions of competitors, disruptions or interruptions of our production or refining operations due to unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, acts of war or terrorist acts and the governmental or military response thereto, and other operating and economic considerations.
Contractual Cash Obligations
        As of March 31, 2007, our purchase obligations under crude oil, refinery feedstock, refined product and ethanol contracts increased approximately $1.401 billion from December 31, 2006, primarily as a result of higher refined product volumes. Otherwise, there have been no significant changes to our obligations to make future payments under existing contracts subsequent to December 31, 2006. The portion of our obligations to make future payments under existing contracts that have been assumed by United States Steel has not changed significantly subsequent to December 31, 2006.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
        Off-balance sheet arrangements comprise those arrangements that may potentially impact our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations, even though such arrangements are not recorded as liabilities under generally accepted accounting principles. Although off-balance sheet arrangements serve a variety of our business purposes, we are not dependent on these arrangements to maintain our liquidity and capital resources; and we are not aware of any circumstances that are reasonably likely to cause the off-balance sheet arrangements to have a material adverse effect
on our liquidity and capital resources. There have been no significant changes to our off-balance sheet arrangements subsequent to December 31, 2006.
Nonrecourse Indebtedness of Investees
        Certain of our investees have incurred indebtedness that we do not support through guarantees or otherwise. If we were obligated to share in this debt on a pro rata ownership basis, our share would have been $340 million as of March 31, 2007. Of this amount, $218 million relates to Pilot Travel Centers LLC ("PTC"). If any of these investees default, we have no obligation to support the debt. Our partner in PTC has guaranteed $75 million of the total PTC debt.
Obligations Associated with the Separation of United States Steel
        We remain obligated (primarily or contingently) for certain debt and other financial arrangements for which United States Steel has assumed responsibility for repayment under the terms of the Separation. (See the discussion of the Separation in our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K.) United States Steel's obligations to Marathon are general unsecured obligations that rank equal to United States Steel's accounts payable and other general unsecured obligations. If United States Steel fails to satisfy these obligations, we would become responsible for repayment. Under the Financial Matters Agreement, United States Steel has all of the existing contractual rights under the leases assumed from Marathon, including all rights related to purchase options, prepayments or the grant or release of security interests. However, United States Steel has no right to increase amounts due under or lengthen the term of any of the assumed leases, other than extensions set forth in the terms of the assumed leases.
        As of March 31, 2007, we have obligations totaling $556 million that have been assumed by United States Steel. Of this amount, obligations of $525 million and corresponding receivables from United States Steel were recorded on our consolidated balance sheet (current portion  $30 million; long-term portion  $495 million). The remaining $31 million was related to off-balance sheet arrangements and contingent liabilities of United States Steel.
Environmental Matters
        We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. If these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our operating results will be adversely affected. We believe that substantially all of our competitors must comply with similar environmental laws and regulations. However, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities, marketing areas, production processes and whether it is also engaged in the petrochemical business or the marine transportation of crude oil, refined products and feedstocks.
        We are a defendant, along with many other companies with refining operations, in over 50 cases in 12 states alleging methyl-tertiary butyl ether ("MTBE") contamination in groundwater. We continue to defend these cases vigorously.
        There have been no other significant changes to our environmental matters subsequent to December 31, 2006.
Other Contingencies
        We are the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to us. However, we believe that we will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to us. See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Liquidity and Capital Resources.
Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted
        In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." This statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. It requires that unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected be recorded in net income. The statement also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. For us, SFAS No. 159 will be effective January 1, 2008, and retrospective application is not permitted. Should we elect to apply the fair value option to any eligible items that exist at January 1, 2008, the effect of the first remeasurement to fair value would be reported as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. We are currently evaluating the provisions of this statement.
        In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements." This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements but may require some entities to change their measurement practices. For us, SFAS No. 157 will be effective January 1, 2008. We are currently evaluating the provisions of this statement.

Exhibit 99.7
Part II  OTHER INFORMATION
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
(a)
173,896 shares of restricted stock were delivered by employees to Marathon, upon vesting, to satisfy tax withholding requirements.
(b)
15,523 shares were repurchased in open-market transactions to satisfy the requirements for dividend reinvestment under the Marathon Oil Corporation Dividend Reinvestment and Direct Stock Purchase Plan (the "Dividend Reinvestment Plan") by the administrator of the Dividend Reinvestment Plan. Stock needed to meet the requirements of the Dividend Reinvestment Plan are either purchased in the open market or issued directly by Marathon.
(c)
In January 2006, we announced a $2 billion share repurchase program. In January 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the extension of this program by an additional $500 million. As of March 31, 2007, the Company had repurchased 51.6 million split-adjusted common shares at a cost of $2.150 billion, which includes transaction fees and commissions that are not reported in the table above.


