FILE:MRO/MRO-8K-20071105150238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
 
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 2.02
      
.
 
On November 1, 2007, Marathon Oil Corporation issued a press release and held a dial-in conference call and webcast discussing third quarter 2007 earnings. The press release and presentation are being furnished as exhibits to this report and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
      
.
 
(d)
                      
Exhibits.
 
99.1
                
Press Release dated November 1, 2007, issued by Marathon Oil Corporation.
 
99.2
                
Presentation dated November 1, 2007, by Marathon Oil Corporation.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Marathon Oil Corporation (NYSE: MRO) today reported third quarter 2007 net income of $1.021 billion or $1.49 per diluted share. Net income in the third quarter of 2006 was $1.623 billion, or $2.26 per diluted share. For the third quarter of 2007, net income adjusted for special items was $1.016 billion, or $1.48 per diluted share. For the third quarter of 2006, net income adjusted for special items was $1.544 billion, or $2.15 per diluted share.
HOUSTON, Nov. 1, 2007 
 
Earnings Highlights
 
 
*See page 6 for a discussion of net income adjusted for special items.
**Restated for two-for-one stock split on June 18, 2007. See Note 2 on page 10.
 
"While our upstream business benefited from the increase in crude oil prices, it was a challenging third quarter for the downstream segment as the significant increase in crude costs compressed margins. Despite near-term volatility, Marathon continues to invest in profitable, long-term growth opportunities. Our activity in the Gulf of Mexico lease sale provides us with additional high quality exploration prospects, while our recently completed acquisition of Western Oil Sands and our Board's approval of the heavy oil upgrade project at our Detroit refinery are key examples of how Marathon is creating long-term value through fully integrated energy solutions," said Clarence P. Cazalot, Jr., president and CEO of Marathon.
Segment Results
 
Total segment income was $1.013 billion in the third quarter of 2007, compared with $1.596 billion in the third quarter of 2006.
 
 
*** See Preliminary Supplemental Statistics on page 9 for a reconciliation of segment income to net income as reported under generally accepted accounting principles.
 
Exploration and Production
 
Upstream segment income totaled $479 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $572 million in the third quarter of 2006. Sales volumes during the quarter averaged 371,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (boepd) and production available for sale averaged 373,000 boepd.
 
United States upstream income was $147 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $218 million in the third quarter of 2006. The decrease was primarily a result of lower liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas sales volumes, the majority of which were associated with expected production declines for Gulf of Mexico and Permian Basin properties. The impact of higher realized liquid hydrocarbon prices was nearly offset by lower realized natural gas prices.
 
International upstream income was $332 million in the third quarter of 2007 compared to $354 million in the third quarter of 2006. The decrease was primarily a result of lower liquid hydrocarbon sales volumes, significantly offset by higher realized liquid hydrocarbon prices and lower exploration expenses. The lower liquid hydrocarbon sales volumes were primarily due to 30,000 barrels of oil per day (bpd) that were produced and sold in the third quarter of 2006 that were owed to Marathon's account upon resumption of operations in Libya. The increase in Equatorial Guinea natural gas sales volumes due to the start-up of the liquefied natural gas (LNG) Train 1 production facility in the second quarter of 2007 contributed to the decline in the average realized natural gas price in the third quarter of 2007.
 
Marathon was the high bidder on 27 blocks offered in the federal Outer Continental Shelf Lease Sale No. 205 conducted by the Minerals Management Service (MMS). Representing a total investment of $222 million net to the Company, 13 blocks are 100 percent Marathon and the remaining 14 blocks were bid in conjunction with partners. The MMS is scheduled to rule on the award of these leases by early 2008. Plans call for initial drilling on some of these leases in the 2009-2010 timeframe, when a new build rig, the Noble Jim Day, is scheduled for delivery. The contract for this rig is for two years with an option to extend the lease for an additional two years.
 
Marathon continued its exploration success in deepwater Angola, having announced the Colorau discovery on Block 32 during the third quarter of 2007. To date, Marathon has announced 25 discoveries and two appraisal wells on Blocks 31 and 32. Marathon has also participated in two additional wells that have reached total depth in deepwater Angola and results will be announced upon government and partner approvals. Marathon has a 10 percent interest in Block 31 and a 30 percent interest in Block 32.
 
Marathon continued to progress major projects during the third quarter. First production from the Neptune development in the Gulf of Mexico remains on schedule for early 2008.
 
Commissioning of the Alvheim floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) vessel continues. All subsea infrastructure is in place, three production wells are ready for production and electrical testing is under way. The FPSO is expected to sail from the shipyard in Haugesund, Norway in December with first production, dependent on weather, now anticipated in the first quarter of 2008.
 
Marathon anticipates that its production available for sale for 2007, excluding any contribution from Canadian oil sands which will be reported as a separate segment as described in the Corporate section of this release, will be approximately 350,000 boepd, in line with the lower end of its previous guidance. This is largely due to operational interruptions at the EG LNG Train 1 production facility, as further discussed in the Integrated Gas segment, as well as the previously discussed delays in first production at Alvheim.
 
Refining, Marketing and Transportation
 
Downstream segment income was $482 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $1.026 billion in the third quarter of 2006. The decrease was primarily a result of a decline in the refining and wholesale marketing gross margin from 32.71 cents per gallon in the third quarter of 2006 to 17.17 cents per gallon in the third quarter of 2007. This margin decline was primarily attributable to the fact that crude oil prices rose significantly during the third quarter of 2007, compared to the third quarter of 2006 when crude oil prices fell substantially. For example, Light Louisiana Sweet (LLS) prices increased over $6 per barrel in the third quarter of 2007, compared to a decline of $12 per barrel in the same quarter last year.
The Company's cost of crude oil and other feedstocks was relatively higher than what the quarter-to-quarter change in average LLS prices would indicate due to the increase in crude oil prices during the quarter, a narrowing of the average sweet/sour differential and the effects of running a sweeter crude slate in the third quarter of 2007, as compared to the third quarter of 2006. In addition, the increase in Marathon's wholesale price realizations in the third quarter of 2007, over the comparable prior year period was less than the increase in the average spot market price for refined products used in the LLS-based market indicators over the same periods.
 
Marathon's refining and wholesale marketing gross margin included derivative losses of $360 million in the third quarter of 2007 compared to derivative gains of $384 million in the third quarter of 2006. The derivative change reflects both the realized effects of closed derivative positions as well as unrealized effects as a result of marking open derivative positions to market. Most derivatives have an underlying physical commodity transaction; however, the income effect related to the derivatives and the income effect related to the underlying physical transactions may not necessarily be recognized in net income in the same period because Marathon does not attempt to qualify these commodity derivatives for hedge accounting.
 
Crude oil refined averaged 1,042,000 bpd during the third quarter of 2007, 11,000 bpd higher than the average for the same period of 2006. Total refinery throughputs were 1,241,000 bpd for the third quarter of 2007 compared to 1,249,000 bpd during the third quarter of 2006. This reduction was primarily due to the planned turnarounds under way at the end of the third quarter of 2007 at the Company's Catlettsburg, Ky. and St. Paul Park, Minn. refineries.
 
Speedway SuperAmerica's (SSA) gasoline and distillate gross margin averaged 11.03 cents per gallon during the third quarter of 2007, down from the 14.10 cents per gallon realized in the third quarter of 2006. SSA increased same store merchandise sales by 2.6 percent over the same quarter last year.
 
 
As announced yesterday, Marathon has approved the projected $1.9 billion expansion and heavy oil upgrading project at the Company's Detroit, Mich., refinery. This project will enable the refinery to process additional heavy, sour crude oils, including Canadian bitumen blends, and will increase its crude oil refining capacity by about 15 percent, adding over 400,000 gallons per day of clean transportation fuels to the marketplace. The project is subject to obtaining necessary environmental permits and is scheduled to be completed in late 2010.
 
Progress continued on the projected $3.2 billion Garyville, La., refinery expansion, which will increase the refinery's 245,000 bpd crude oil refining capacity to 425,000 bpd. When completed in late 2009, this expansion will enable the refinery to provide an additional 7.5 million gallons of clean transportation fuels to the market each day.
On October 22, 2007, Marathon acquired a 35.09 percent interest in The Andersons Clymers Ethanol LLC, with operations located in Clymers, Ind. The Clymers facility is a 110-million-gallon-per-year ethanol plant that began production in May 2007. With this acquisition, Marathon further enhances its strategic ethanol production partnership with The Andersons, Inc. by participating in two facilities, including the Greenville, Ohio facility that is under construction and on target to be operational in the first quarter of 2008.
 
Marathon continued its investment in supply and transportation infrastructure when it recently reached agreement to purchase four terminals in Ohio from CITGO Petroleum Corporation and an ownership interest in the Inland Corporation pipeline from CITGO Pipeline Investment Company. The acquisition will increase Marathon's flexibility in supplying transportation fuels to the Midwest. The transaction is expected to close by the end of the first quarter of 2008, pending completion of various pre-closing activities. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.
 
Integrated Gas
 
Integrated gas segment income was $52 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to a loss of $2 million in the third quarter of 2006. The increase was largely due to the fact that the third quarter of 2007 was the first full quarter of operations for the Train 1 LNG production facility in Equatorial Guinea. In addition, income from the Company's equity method investment in Atlantic Methanol Production Company LLC (AMPCO) increased relative to the third quarter of 2006 when the plant was idle for a portion of that quarter.
 
 
mid-November and early December 2007.
The Train 1 LNG production facility in Equatorial Guinea, in which Marathon holds a 60 percent interest, delivered its first cargo on May 24, 2007, and produced LNG at a rate of 93 percent of design capacity during the third quarter. Following the detection of a minor isolated leak, the facility was shut down on Oct. 4, 2007. Warranty repairs have commenced and LNG production is expected to resume between
 
technology.
Marathon continues to invest in the development of new technologies to create value and supply new energy sources. The Company expended approximately $12 million on a pretax basis during the third quarter of 2007 on gas commercialization technologies, including the construction of a demonstration plant to further develop its proprietary Gas-To-Fuels
TM
 
Corporate
 
Following the approval by the Canadian government and Western Oil Sands Inc. (Western) shareholders, Marathon completed the acquisition of Western on Oct. 18, 2007, through a cash and securities transaction of approximately $5.8 billion, plus approximately $1.1 billion of outstanding debt, for a total transaction value of $6.9 billion. Under the terms of the agreement, Western shareholders received CDN$3.8 billion in cash (US$3.9 billion) and shares of Marathon common stock or securities exchangeable for Marathon common stock aggregating to 34.3 million shares valued at $1.9 billion.
Marathon has gained access to the oil sands in more than 300,000 gross acres, of which over 200,000 acres are expected to be developed by mining through the Athabasca Oil Sands Project (AOSP) in which Marathon acquired a 20 percent interest. Commencing with the completion of the acquisition on Oct. 18, 2007, the Company estimates its net share of production from the AOSP mining operation will be 31,000 bpd of mined bitumen for the remainder of 2007. For the full year 2007, annualized production is expected to be 6,000 bpd of mined bitumen. Marathon's net share of AOSP mined production is expected to grow to more than 130,000 net bpd by 2020, through five additional planned expansions. Marathon's net resource from the base AOSP mine and the five expansions is estimated to be 1.5 billion barrels of mined bitumen with an additional 500 million barrels of resource expected to be recovered from other mining expansions on this acreage. Marathon also took ownership in both operated and non-operated in-situ leases. The Company gained a 60 percent interest and operatorship in a 26,000 gross acre project along with a 20 percent working interest in 75,000 gross acres in the outside-operated Ells River project. Collectively, these in-situ leases will add an estimated 600 million barrels of net resource.
 
Marathon's oil sands mining operations will be reported as a separate segment and its in-situ oil activities will be included in the Exploration and Production segment beginning in the fourth quarter of 2007.
 
Special Items
 
Marathon has two long-term natural gas sales contracts in the United Kingdom that are accounted for as derivative instruments. Mark-to-market changes in the valuation of these contracts must be recognized in current period income. During the third quarter of 2007, the non-cash after-tax mark-to-market loss was $62 million on these two long-term natural gas sales contracts related to Marathon's North Sea Brae natural gas production. Due to the volatility in the fair value of these contracts, Marathon consistently excludes these non-cash gains and losses from net income adjusted for special items.
 
Marathon entered foreign currency derivative instruments to limit the Company's exposure to changes in the Canadian dollar exchange rate related to the cash portion of the Western purchase price. Mark-to-market changes in the valuation of these contracts must be recognized in current period income. During the third quarter of 2007, the non-cash after-tax unrealized gains on these derivative instruments totaled $74 million and have been excluded from net income adjusted for special items. These derivative instruments were settled during the fourth quarter of 2007 in connection with the closing of the Western acquisition, and an additional after-tax gain of $38 million will be recognized in the fourth quarter as a special item.
 
In the third quarter of 2007, Marathon extinguished $61 million of its outstanding debt at a premium and recognized a $7 million after-tax loss. This loss has been excluded from net income adjusted for special items.
 
The Company will conduct a conference call and webcast today, Nov. 1, 2007, at 2:00 p.m. EDT during which it will discuss third quarter 2007 results. The webcast will include synchronized slides. To listen to the webcast of the conference call and view the slides, visit the Marathon Web site at www.Marathon.com. Replays of the webcast will be available through Nov. 15, 2007. Quarterly financial and operational information is also provided on Marathon's Web site at http://www.marathon.com/Investor_Center/Investor_Relations/_in the Quarterly Investor Packet.
 
In addition to net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, Marathon has provided supplementally "net income adjusted for special items," a non-GAAP financial measure which facilitates comparisons to earnings forecasts prepared by stock analysts and other third parties. Such forecasts generally exclude the effects of items that are considered non-recurring, are difficult to predict or to measure in advance or that are not directly related to Marathon's ongoing operations. A reconciliation between GAAP net income and "net income adjusted for special items" is provided in a table on page 1 of this release.
 
"Net income adjusted for special items" should not be considered a substitute for net income as reported in accordance with GAAP. Management, as well as certain investors, uses "net income adjusted for special items" to evaluate Marathon's financial performance between periods. Management also uses "net income adjusted for special items" to compare Marathon's performance to certain competitors.
 
This release contains forward-looking statements with respect to the timing and levels of the Company's worldwide liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production and sales, the Alvheim/Vilje development, the Neptune development, potential developments in Angola, anticipated future exploratory and development drilling activity, the expected operational date of an ethanol facility, the Garyville refinery expansion project, the Detroit heavy oil upgrading project, the acquisition of four terminals and an interest in a pipeline, the anticipated operational date of the LNG facility, production of mined bitumen, and net resource of bitumen and potential in-situ resource. Some factors that could potentially affect the timing and levels of  liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas production and sales, the Alvheim/Vilje development, the Neptune development, potential developments in Angola, and anticipated future exploratory and development drilling activity include pricing, supply and demand for petroleum products, amount of capital available for exploration and development, regulatory constraints, timing of commencing production from new wells, drilling rig availability, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, acts of war or terrorist acts and the governmental or military response thereto, and other geological, operating and economic considerations. Except for the Alvheim/Vilje and Neptune developments, the foregoing forward-looking statements may be further affected by the inability or delay in obtaining government and third-party approvals and permits. Factors that could affect the ethanol plant construction and the Garyville and Detroit expansion projects include transportation logistics, availability of materials and labor, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, necessary government and third-party approvals, and other risks customarily associated with construction projects. The acquisition of four terminals and an interest in a pipeline are subject to customary closing conditions and may be affected by the inability or delay in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals and other operating and economic considerations. The anticipated operational date of the LNG facility is based on certain factors, including equipment availability and customs approval. The forward-looking information with respect to net resource of bitumen and potential in-situ resource is based on certain assumptions including, among others, presently known physical data, economic recoverability and other operating considerations. The foregoing factors (among others) could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. In accordance with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Marathon Oil Corporation has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and subsequent Forms 10-Q and 8-K, cautionary language identifying other important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. SEC regulations classify "mined bitumen" as mining-related and not part of conventional oil and natural gas reserves. Marathon Oil Corporation uses certain terms in this press release, such as "net resource," that the SEC's guidelines strictly prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosures in Marathon's periodic filings with the SEC, available from the Company at 5555 San Felipe Road, Houston, Texas 77056 and the Company's Web site at http://www.Marathon.com. You can also obtain this information from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors -
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
Selected Notes to Financial Statements (Unaudited)
 
Equatorial Guinea LNG Holdings Limited (EGHoldings), in which Marathon holds a 60 percent interest, was formed for the purpose of constructing and operating an LNG production facility. During facility construction, EGHoldings was a variable interest entity (VIE) that was consolidated by Marathon because Marathon was its primary beneficiary. Once the LNG production facility commenced its primary operations and began to generate revenue in May 2007, EGHoldings was no longer a VIE. Effective May 1, 2007, Marathon no longer consolidates EGHoldings, despite the fact that the Company holds majority ownership, because the minority shareholders have rights limiting Marathon's ability to exercise control over the entity. Marathon's investment is accounted for prospectively using the equity method of accounting.
1.
             
 
On April 25, 2007, the Company's Board of Directors declared a two-for-one split of the Company's common stock. The stock split was effected in the form of a stock dividend distributed on June 18, 2007, to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 23, 2007. Stockholders received one additional share of Marathon Oil Corporation common stock for each share of common stock held as of the close of business on the record date. Common share and per share information for all periods presented in the condensed consolidated statements of income has been restated to reflect the stock split.
2.
             
Preliminary Supplemental Statistics (Unaudited)
 
(a)
    
Through April 2007, includes Equatorial Guinea LNG Holdings (EGHoldings) at 100 percent. Effective May 1, 2007, Marathon no longer consolidates EGHoldings and its investment in EGHoldings is accounted for prospectively using the equity method of accounting; therefore, EGHoldings' capital expenditures subsequent to April 2007 are not included in Marathon's capital expenditures.
 
(b)
   
Amounts represent net sales after royalties, except for Ireland where amounts are before royalties.
 
(c)
    
Includes natural gas acquired for injection and subsequent resale of 51 mmcfd and 36 mmcfd for the third quarters of 2007 and 2006, and 49 mmcfd and 45 mmcfd for the first nine months of 2007 and 2006.
 
(d)
   
Excludes gains and losses on traditional derivative instruments and the unrealized effects of long-term U.K. natural gas contracts that are accounted for as derivatives.
 
(e)
    
Total average daily volumes of all refined product sales to wholesale, branded and retail (SSA) customers.
 
(f)
      
As a result of the change in accounting for matching buy/sell arrangements on April 1, 2006, the reported sales volumes will be lower than the volumes determined under the previous accounting practices.
 
(g)
   
Per gallon.
 
(h)
   
Sales revenue less cost of refinery inputs, purchased products and manufacturing expenses, including depreciation. As a result of the change in accounting for matching buy/sell transactions on April 1, 2006, the resulting per gallon statistic will be higher than the statistic that would have been calculated from amounts determined under previous accounting practices.
 
(i)
       
Millions of gallons.

Exhibit 99.2
 
2Q 2007 Earnings Conference Call Remarks
Ken Matheny Vice President, Investor Relations and Public Affairs
November 1, 2007
 
Welcome to Marathon Oil Corporation's third quarter 2007 earnings Web cast and conference call. As a reminder for telephone participants, you can find the synchronized slides that accompany this call on our website www.Marathon.com.
 
With us on the call today, are Clarence Cazalot, president and CEO, Janet Clark, executive vice president and CFO, Gary Heminger, Marathon executive vice president and president of our Refining, Marketing and Transportation organization, Phil Behrman, senior vice president Worldwide Exploration, Steve Hinchman, senior vice president Worldwide Production, and Garry Peiffer, senior vice president of finance and commercial services downstream.
 
Slide 2 contains the Forward Looking Statement and other information related to this presentation. Our remarks and answers to questions today will contain certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
 
In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Marathon Oil Corporation has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and subsequent Forms 8-K and 10-Q, cautionary language identifying important factors, but not necessarily all factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
 
Turning to slide 3, net income for the third quarter was $1 billion versus $1.6 billion in the third quarter 2006. This slide also provides a reconciliation of Net Income to Adjusted Net Income by quarter for the last three years.
 
The bar graphs on slide 4 show the quarterly net income adjusted for special items for the third quarter was just over $1 billion, down $528 million from the third quarter 2006. For ease of comparison, this slide also provides the quarterly and yearly data for 2006 and 2005.
 
Slide 5 shows that on a per share basis, adjusted net income was down $0.67 or 31 percent from the year ago third quarter level and $0.77 per share or 34 percent below the second quarter 2007.
 
Because the Western acquisition was pending during the third quarter, there were minimal share purchases during the quarter.
 
Moving to slide 6, the year over year decrease in third quarter net income adjusted for special items was largely a result of a lower refining and wholesale marketing gross margin, partially offset by lower income taxes.
 
Moving to slide 7, adjusted net income for the third quarter 2007 was $532 million lower than the second quarter 2007. This decrease was also primarily a result of a lower refining and wholesale marketing gross margin partially offset by lower income taxes.
 
Turning to slide 8, upstream segment income for the third quarter increased $79 million over the second quarter 2007. This increase was a result of higher natural gas sales volumes and higher liquid hydrocarbon sales prices partially offset by higher income taxes, lower revenue associated with storage volumes in Ireland and higher operating costs, primarily related to workovers in the Gulf of Mexico, UK, and Gabon.
 
As shown on slide 9, worldwide sales volumes on a BOE basis increased 33,000 boe per day in the third quarter 2007 as compared to the second quarter 2007 and the average realized price per boe increased $0.97 per BOE quarter over quarter.
 
Moving to slide 10, domestic upstream income decreased $26 million from the second quarter, largely a result of slightly higher operating costs associated with the previously mentioned workovers in the Gulf of Mexico.
 
As shown on Slide 11, the NYMEX prompt price for WTI crude was up $10.13 per barrel from the second quarter while our average domestic realized liquid hydrocarbon price was up $8.34. Our lower realizations compared to the NYMEX were primarily the result of weaker differentials for Gulf Coast and Wyoming crude streams as well as NGL price realizations which did not keep pace with the WTI increase.
 
The Bid Week Natural Gas price was down $1.39 per million BTUs from the second quarter, while our domestic natural gas realizations were down $1.02 per mcf. Our lower 48 realizations were down $1.13 per mcf, primarily reflecting the relative positive movement of differentials to Henry Hub quarter on quarter.
 
Turning to slide 12, third quarter domestic upstream expense, excluding exploration expense, was $1.64 per BOE higher than the second quarter primarily as a result of the higher workover expenses already discussed. Domestic upstream income per BOE decreased $2.08 quarter over quarter.
 
Moving to slide 13, international upstream income for the third quarter increased $105 million over the second quarter as a result of higher volumes and higher realized prices, which were partially offset by higher income taxes, lower revenue associated with storage volumes in Ireland, higher operating costs, primarily from workovers in the UK and Gabon and increased DD&A due to higher EG gas sales to the LNG plant.
 
As shown on Slide 14, our international liquids realizations increased approximately $9.35 per barrel while Dated Brent increased only $5.99 per barrel. This out performance compared to Dated Brent was primarily due to higher market premiums for our light sweet sales as well as the timing of liftings.
 
The increase in the international natural gas realizations compared to the second quarter, was a result of higher volumes and higher realized prices in Europe. These gains were partially offset by much higher gas sales volumes to our LNG facility in Equatorial Guinea during the third quarter, which was its first full quarter of operation. Please remember that our LNG business is reported through the Integrated Gas segment, so there is additional uplift in value realized by this facility that is not reported through our upstream business.
 
Turning to slide 15, third quarter international upstream expense, excluding exploration expense, decreased $0.90 per BOE over the second quarter 2007, largely a result of the higher volume of natural gas production in EG. Total income per BOE increased $2.97 to $15.65 primarily due to the higher realizations.
 
Moving to our downstream business and slide 16, third quarter 2007 segment income totaled $482 million compared to just over $1 billion earned in the same quarter last year. Because of the seasonality of the downstream business, I will compare our third quarter 2007 results against the same quarter of 2006.
 
The most significant factor contributing to downstream's lower segment income quarter to quarter was that the price of crude oil rose significantly during the third quarter 2007 while in the third quarter 2006 prices fell substantially. This was the primary reason our crude oil and other feedstock acquisition costs increased substantially more than the change in the average price of LLS during the September 2007 quarter compared to the September 2006 quarter would indicate. Due to these escalating prices in the third quarter 2007, we took a charge for crude and feedstock derivative activity. This charge wasn't completely offset by changes in the value of the underlying crude and feedstock inventories and purchases. The opposite effect occurred in the third quarter 2006 when prices declined during the quarter and we recorded a gain on crude and feedstock derivative activity.
 
In addition, the average sweet/sour differential narrowed about $2 per barrel between the periods which also negatively impacted earnings. And finally, we ran a sweeter crude slate in the third quarter 2007 compared to the third quarter 2006 which also increased our crude acquisition costs quarter to quarter.
In addition to the increased cost of crude and feedstocks, the increase in our wholesale sales price realizations per gallon during third quarter 2007 over the comparable prior  year period was less than the increase in the  average spot market prices for the products that are used in the LLS 6-3-2-1 calculation.
 
In addition to the derivatives effects I just discussed in the third quarter 2007 we had a small derivative loss related to ethanol versus a large derivative gain in the third quarter 2006. This swing was primarily due to the fact that during the third quarter 2006 we had a number of derivative contracts in place to hedge long-term ethanol purchase contracts. When prices fell in the third quarter of 2006, the derivatives contracts increased in value generating a positive income effect without any offsetting effect from the physical ethanol purchase contracts during this same quarter.
 
In total, Marathon's refining and wholesale marketing gross margin included derivative losses of $360 million in the third quarter of 2007 compared to derivative gains of $384 million in the third quarter of 2006. Since we have elected not to use hedge accounting for our downstream, all of our derivative activities are required to be marked to market by FAS 133. Therefore, the derivative change reflects both the realized effects of derivatives as well as the unrealized effect of marking open derivative positions to market. In addition, derivatives used in non-trading activities have an underlying physical commodity transaction; however, the income effect related to the derivatives and income effect related to the underlying physical transactions may not necessarily be recognized in net income in the same period.
 
The downstream segment also incurred higher costs in the third quarter 2007 compared to the same quarter last year primarily because of higher planned turnaround expenses.
 
In the third quarter 2007, crude oil in transit effect was negative $30 million versus a positive effect of about $53 million in the same quarter last year.
 
Partially offsetting these negative results was the fact that the Chicago crack spread, in particular, was much stronger in the third quarter 2007 than it was in the same quarter last year. The LLS 6-3-2-1 crack spread on a two-thirds Chicago and one-third U.S. Gulf Coast basis, increased from $7.15 in the third quarter 2006 to $9.01 in the third quarter 2007.
 
Our refineries operated well last quarter. Crude oil throughputs improved from 1,031,000 bpd in the third quarter 2006 to 1,042,000 bpd in the third quarter 2007. However, planned turnarounds under way at the end of the third quarter at our Catlettsburg, Kentucky and St. Paul Park, Minnesota refineries reduced our average third quarter 2007 total crude and other charge and blendstock inputs to 1,241,000 bpd compared to 1,249,000 bpd in the same quarter last year. For the full year, we expect our total crude oil throughputs will exceed the record level of 980,000 bpd we achieved in 2006.
 
As shown on slide 17, Speedway SuperAmerica's gasoline and distillate sales were up 25 million gallons, an increase of 2.9 percent quarter over quarter. Speedway SuperAmerica's same store gasoline sales volumes were up 1.9 percent and same store merchandise sales increased 2.6 percent in the third quarter 2007 compared to the same quarter in 2006.
 
And last, Speedway SuperAmerica's gross margin for gasoline and distillate was 11.03 cents per gallon compared to 14.10 cents per gallon in the same quarter last year.
 
Slide 18 provides a summary of segment data, along with a reconciliation to net income. Of note is the integrated gas segment which had income of $52 million during the third quarter 2007 compared to $12 million in the second quarter. The increase in earnings is primarily attributable to the fact that the third quarter was the first full quarter of operations for the EG LNG production facility, which commenced primary operations in May 2007.
 
Slide 19 provides selected preliminary Balance Sheet and Cash Flow data. Cash-adjusted debt to total capital at the end of the third quarter was approximately 11%. As a reminder, the cash-adjusted debt balance includes approximately $508 million of debt serviced by U.S. Steel.
Year-to-date preliminary cash flow from operations was approximately $3.0 billion, and preliminary cash flow from operations before working capital changes was approximately $4.6 billion.
 
Slide 20 provides guidance for the fourth quarter and full year 2007.
 
Before I turn the call over to Clarence there are a few additional comments to make. This will be my last conference call with investors as I have decided to retire at the end of the year after more than 30 years with Marathon. More than seven of those years have been spent working with investors  nearly 40 conference calls, hundreds of meetings and literally thousands of telephone calls. While I am looking forward to retirement, I would be remiss if I did not say how much I have enjoyed the time spent with all of you. You have challenged me with questions and I have benefited from your knowledge and insights. You kept me on my toes and I think it is safe to say I've gained more from the experience than you. I will miss the challenge but most of all I will miss the relationships and the opportunity to talk with you on a regular basis.
 
But this is a good news story. The timing is right. Marathon is positioned with a management team, employees and an asset base as good as any I have seen in my 30 year career. The good news for me is that I am healthy and will have time to do most anything my family wants to do. The good news for all of you is that Howard Thill will replace me. Many of you know Howard very well and recognize that he is more than qualified for the job. Howard along with Michol Ecklund and Bonnie Chisum will be here to meet all your investor needs. I can guarantee investor relations at Marathon will not miss a beat, in fact the beat will probably step up a notch.
 
So for the last time my thanks to all of you, it has been a great ride, and I will now turn the call over to Clarence Cazalot.
 
Ken, thank you so much. We've still got two more months to ask you questions and challenge you a bit. I, on behalf of the company, want to thank you again. Ken, as you all know, has made tremendous contributions to Marathon for over 30 years. And certainly from my standpoint, having worked with him for the last six years, you know what a gentleman he is, a man of great integrity, and he's been a great source of advice and guidance for me personally. I want to wish Ken and Peg all the best as they take on new challenges and to congratulate Howard on the job, and we look forward to working with Howard as well.
 
As Ken pointed out, in the third quarter our upstream business benefited from the increase in crude oil prices while it was a challenging environment for the downstream sector as margins were compressed by increased crude costs. This certainly points out the volatility in our business but also the advantage of being a strong integrated company. Despite this near-term volatility, we continue to invest in profitable, long-term growth opportunities and I think as you all recognize, our clear intent is to create long-term value through fully integrated energy solutions such as the potential linkage of our recently acquired interest in the Canadian oil sands with our best in class U.S. refining and marketing assets.
 
As you know we just announced yesterday approval of our Detroit refinery upgrade and expansion project. When completed in 2010, this refinery project will allow us to process an additional 80,000 barrels of heavy oil and unlock additional value from our oil sands assets. And I know there's a great expectation out there about what the precise downstream value proposition is. Gary Heminger will outline for you in an illustrative fashion, this value proposition using a reasonable set of assumptions. But first, I'd like Steve Hinchman to give an update on our production business.
 
Thank-you Clarence.
 
Our upstream operations performed well over the third quarter; including our LNG facility in Equatorial Guinea; which achieved an average utilization rate of 93% of design capacity.
 
Unfortunately on October 4 we discovered a small leak in a 2 inch drain line within the refrigeration unit of the EG LNG facility requiring a full shut-in of the plant. The leak has been isolated and repairs are
th
underway. The plant should be back on line and manufacturing LNG within the next few weeks. This outage will impact our annualized production volumes by about 7,500 BOEPD and is reflected in the fourth quarter guidance.
 
In Norway the Alvheim FPSO construction has been completed and commissioning, although taking longer then we expected, is now nearly complete. We expect to sail out of the Haugesund ship yard by Mid-December. We will stop in Amofjord, which is near Stavanger, to install the thrusters and commission the fire water and sea water pumps before sailing to location. First production is expected in the first quarter but is dependent upon having a weather window conducive to safely linking the vessel to the loading bouy.
 
Our production for the year will fall within the prior guidance of 350,000 to 375,000 BOEPD, but near the low end attributable to these two events.
 
Now Gary Heminger will make some additional comments.
 
Thanks Steve. As Clarence mentioned, we closed the Western transaction on October 18, 2007 and yesterday we announced the approval of the Detroit upgrade and expansion project. But before I get into the linkage between these projects, and the value proposition for Marathon, I'd like to welcome Steve Reynish and his team to Marathon. We are excited not only to have the Western assets but we are also pleased to have been able to retain a highly talented staff which Steve will lead as President of Marathon Oil Canada. Steve most recently was the Executive Vice president and Chief Operating Officer of Western and prior to that was the president and Chief Operating Officer of Albian Sands Energy which operates the Muskeg River Mine on behalf of the Athabasca Oil Sands Project (or AOSP) owners. Steve and his team bring valuable knowledge to the operation of the business.
 
To help investors, analysts and other interested parties better understand our value proposition we've prepared the following slides to compare our project with that of a typical Alberta upgrader. I want to emphasize that this example provides an illustrative case of the preliminary and hopefully you will recognize that we have a long way to go in the commercial negotiations around areas such as transportation and so this analysis is not intended as a reflection of our economic case for the project.
 
Slide 22 provides the relevant assumptions used in the rest of this presentation. While I won't go over these individually I felt it important that you see what our the base assumptions for this illustrative case are and that they are reasonable, and not based on the much higher crude prices we've seen recently or the higher crack spreads refiners had this past summer.
 
Moving on, slide 23 illustrates the typical value chain moving from bitumen to refined products, using the previously outlined price assumptions. This slide reflects the three value chain options available to a Canadian Heavy Oil producer: selling Dilbit, upgrading to a synthetic crude oil, or gaining access to a refinery with heavy oil capability. As shown here and as further demonstrated in the following slides, the Midwest refinery option clearly provides the highest value.
 
Moving to slide 24, and using the value chain just demonstrated, the value of linking our AOSP production with our Detroit refinery is further demonstrated. This slide reflects the margin value of a Midwest refinery heavy oil upgrading solution on a bitumen basis. Starting with a 70/30 blend or 1 barrel of Bitumen and 0.43 barrels of diluents and using the previously stated price assumptions, adding $10.00 per barrel transportation and refinery expenses, this refinery feedstock of 1.43 barrels is then converted into finished products valued at approximately $94.60. The result of this value chain is a margin of $21.74 per barrel of bitumen.
 
Slide 25 reflects the margin value calculation of a typical Alberta upgrader. This option also starts with 1 barrel of bitumen but the diluent is recycled to the mine for repeated blending purposes. Other blend stocks of approximately 0.21 barrels are necessary to optimize the upgrader option. It is estimated that total costs, including feedstocks and blendstocks, transportation, opex and overhead  are approximately $13.61 per barrel of bitumen. The resulting blend of products reflects a yield of approximately 103% as a
result of the expansion that occurs during upgrading to the bitumen barrel. The product output of the upgrader consists of a mix of premium synthetic crude oil, vacuum gas oil and heavy synthetic crude oil which yields $63.44 of revenue for every barrel of bitumen processed resulting in an operating margin of $19.54 per barrel of bitumen.
 
Slide 26, with a side-by-side comparison, illustrates the total value advantage of a Midwest refinery heavy oil upgrading solution when compared to an Alberta upgrader using the stated assumptions. As illustrated on the previous slides, there is an operating margin advantage of approximately $2.20 per barrel. In addition, as shown here, we estimate there is an additional value of approximately $1.25 per bitumen barrel when taking capital costs into consideration. This calculation imputes a market value for a base refinery to truly reflect comparable costs. In total, we believe Marathon's integrated solution has approximately a $3.50 per bitumen barrel competitive advantage to upgrading at the field level. And with this solution, we are supplying refined product directly to a market that currently has excess demand.
 
And of course, we are still in the early days of our Canadian oil sands project and will continue to explore our options for gaining value from this asset. We continue to look at other potential long-term refining solutions within our network. And we look forward to working with our partners on the promising future of the AOSP project, including discussions about technology opportunities and options for optimizing the value of the current upgrader.
 
Let me finish by taking a few minutes to remark on the Alberta Royalty changes outlined in Premier Stelmach's address last week. While we would have preferred that there would have been limited changes to the royalty regime, we believe there is minimal effect based on the pricing assumptions we used. It is disappointing the royalty will graduate with oil prices and this may limit upside and future capital spending. We will obviously continue to study and follow the open items still being discussed in the province pertaining to bitumen upgrading.
 
We are confident Marathon will deliver a superior competitive solution through the integration of the oil sands with our refining system. We will update you as we continue down the path of this integration.
 
Now I'll turn the call back to Ken.
 
Thank you Gary. We will now open the call to questions. To accommodate all who want to ask questions we ask that you limit yourself to one question plus a follow up. You may reprompt for additional questions as time permits. For the benefit of all listeners we ask that you identify yourself and your affiliation.
 


