FILE:MRO/MRO-8K-20110707163519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(b)   Pro Forma Information
 
The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet of Marathon Oil Corporation as of March 31, 2011 and the unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of income of Marathon Oil Corporation for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and March 31, 2010 and for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 are included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and are incorporated into this Item 9.01 by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
                      
Number
Exhibit
 
 
 
2
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
On June 30, 2011, Marathon Oil Corporation (Marathon) completed the spin-off of our downstream (Refining, Marketing and Transportation) business, by creating two independent energy companies: Marathon Oil Corporation (MRO) and Marathon Petroleum Corporation (MPC).  On June 30, 2011, stockholders of record as of the close of business on June 27, 2011 (the Record Date) received one common share of MPC stock for every two common shares of Marathon stock held as of the Record Date.
 
Prior to the completion of the spin-off, Marathon and MPC entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement and other agreements that will govern the post-spin relationship.  These agreements allow for a settlement process surrounding the transfer of certain assets and liabilities, for which future adjustments could occur as these transfers are resolved.
 
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial data of Marathon presented below was derived from our historical consolidated financial statements and is being presented to give effect to the spin-off of our downstream business, which will be reported as a discontinued operation.  The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet assumes the spin-off of our downstream business occurred on March 31, 2011.  The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of income give effect to the spin-off of our downstream business as if the spin-off occurred on January 1, 2008.  The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with our historical financial statements and accompanying notes.
 
The pro forma adjustments are based on the best information available and assumptions that management believes are factually supportable and recurring.  The unaudited pro forma consolidated information is for illustrative and informational purposes only and is not intended to reflect what our financial position and results of operations would have been had the spin-off occurred on the dates indicated and is not necessarily indicative of our future financial position and future results of operations.
 
The pro forma adjustments remove all of our downstream business assets, liabilities and results of operations, and give effect to the following items:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of income do not include adjustments for all of the costs of operating after the spin-off of our downstream business, since they are not factually supportable and recurring.  Transaction costs that were incurred to affect the spin-off of $17 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011, are reflected in the Spin-off of MPC column in the pro forma consolidated statement of income ($12 million in net interest and other; $5 million in selling, general and administrative expenses).  There are no transaction costs included in the consolidated statements of income for the three months ended March 31, 2010 or the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
 
1
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 


