FILE:MRO/MRO-8K-20110701092745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
 
The description of the amendment to the Employee Matters Agreement included in Item 5.02 of this report is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
 
On June 30, 2011, we completed the spin-off (the Spin-off) of Marathon Petroleum Corporation (MPC) to our stockholders through the distribution of shares of common stock of MPC to holders of outstanding shares of our common stock.  MPCs businesses primarily consist of those that previously comprised our refining, marketing and transportation operations.  In connection with the Spin-off, our stockholders received 100% (approximately 356 million shares) of the outstanding common stock of MPC.  MPC is now an independent public company and its common stock trades under the symbol MPC on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
 
The distribution of MPC common stock occurred by way of a pro rata stock dividend to our stockholders.  Each of our stockholders received one share of MPC common stock for every two shares of our common stock held by such stockholder at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the record date, June 27, 2011, and cash in lieu of any fractional shares of MPC common stock.
 
 
A registration statement on Form 10 relating to the Spin-off was filed by MPC with the Securities and Exchange Commission and was declared effective on June 6, 2011.
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
In connection with the Spin-off, Messrs. David A Daberko, William L. Davis, Charles R. Lee, Seth E. Schofield, John W. Snow and Thomas J. Usher became directors of MPC and resigned as directors of Marathon Oil effective as of the close of business on June 30, 2011.
Also in connection with the Spin-off, Mr. Gary R. Heminger resigned his position of Executive Vice President, Downstream of Marathon Oil effective as of the close of business on June 30, 2011.
In connection with the Spin-off, Mr. Clarence P. Cazalot, Jr. was appointed chairman of the board of Marathon Oil in addition to his responsibilities as President and CEO, and Dennis H. Reilley was appointed Lead Director.  Both appointments were effective July 1, 2011.
Effective July 1, 2011, Mr. David E. Roberts, Jr., 50, has been appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Marathon Oil.  Mr. Roberts previously served as Executive Vice President, Upstream, a position he has held since 2008.  Mr. Roberts joined Marathon in 2006 as senior vice president of business development.  He previously served as executive vice president/managing director for BG Group with responsibility for Asia and the Middle East.  Prior to joining BG, he served as advisor to the vice chairman of ChevronTexaco Corporation (now Chevron Corporation) from 2001 to 2003, where he provided strategic and operational advice to executive management regarding the company's upstream operations.  Mr. Roberts is a 1983 graduate of the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, where he earned a Bachelor of Science degree in mineral engineering.
 
 
In connection with the Spin-off, an Employee Matters Agreement (the EMA) was entered into by and between Marathon Oil and MPC.  We previously filed a copy of the EMA with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 25, 2011.  On June 30, 2011, an amendment to the EMA (the Amendment) was entered into for the primary purposes of (i) ensuring that Canadian employees will not experience adverse tax consequences as a result of equity conversions, (ii) making conforming changes to reflect the registration statement to be filed by MPC, and (iii) allowing for a possible variance by a third party service provider from the methodology for equity adjustments in the EMA.  A copy of the Amendment is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits:
 
 
1
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
                      
Number
Exhibit
 
 
3
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
This Amendment to Employee Matters Agreement (this ), dated as of June 30, 2011, is by and between Marathon Oil Corporation, a Delaware corporation ( or ), and Marathon Petroleum Corporation, a Delaware corporation ( or , and together with Marathon Oil, the ).
Amendment
Marathon Oil
MRO
Marathon Petroleum
MPC
Parties
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Parties are parties to an Employee Matters Agreement dated as of May 25, 2011 (the ; capitalized terms used but not defined in this Amendment shall have the respective meanings given such terms in the Employee Matters Agreement); and
Employee Matters Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Employee Matters Agreement contains provisions relating to adjustments to equity-based awards held by MRO Participants, MPC Participants and other grantees, which adjustments are generally designed to preserve the intrinsic values of those awards on the Distribution Date;
 
WHEREAS, the Parties now desire to amend the Employee Matters Agreement as provided herein, to permit an Alternative Methodology for adjusting certain equity-based awards and provide specific provisions for holders of equity-based awards who are subject to the Income Tax Act (Canada);
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the respective agreements and covenants contained in this Amendment, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
 
1.
 
Section 1.1 of the Employee Matters Agreement is hereby amended to add the following new definitions:
 
Adjustment Time shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.2(d)(ii).
 
Canadian Pre-Distribution Spread means, for purposes of Section 13.2(d)(ii) and Section 13.3(c)(ii), with respect to a Person's MRO Unvested Options or MRO Vested Options, as applicable, the product of (a) the number of shares of MRO common stock subject to such MRO Unvested Options  or MRO Vested Options immediately prior to the Adjustment Time, and (b) the excess of the MRO Pre-Distribution Stock Value over the per-share exercise price for such MRO Unvested Options or MRO Vested Options immediately prior to the Adjustment Time.
 
ITA shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.2(d)(ii).
 
Post-Distribution Spread means, (a) for purposes of Section 13.2(d)(ii), with respect to a Person's Remaining MRO Unvested Options or MPC Unvested Options, as applicable, the product of (a) the number of shares of MRO common stock or shares of MPC common stock, as applicable, subject to such Remaining MRO Unvested Options or MPC Unvested Options, as applicable, immediately after the Adjustment Time, and (b) the excess of the MRO Post-Distribution Stock Value or MPC Post-Distribution Stock Value, as applicable, over the per-share exercise price for such Remaining MRO Unvested Options or MPC Unvested Options, as applicable, immediately after the Adjustment Time and  (b) for purposes of Section 13.3(c)(ii), with respect to a Person's Remaining MRO Vested Options and MPC Vested Options, the sum of:  (A) the product of: (w) the number of shares of MRO common stock subject to such Remaining MRO Vested Options, immediately after the Adjustment Time, and (x) the excess of the MRO Post-Distribution Stock Value over the per-share exercise price for such Remaining MRO Vested Options, immediately after the Adjustment Time, and (B) the product of: (y) the number of shares of MPC common stock subject to such MPC Vested Options, immediately after the Adjustment Time, and (x) the excess of the MPC Post-Distribution Stock Value over the per-share exercise price for such MPC Vested Options, immediately after the Adjustment Time.
 
Post-Distribution Value means, with respect to a Person's MRO RSUs or MPC RSUs, as applicable, the product of (a) the number of shares of MRO common stock or shares of MPC common stock, as applicable, subject to such MRO RSUs or MPC RSUs, as applicable, immediately after the Adjustment Time, and (b) the MRO Post-Distribution Stock Value or MPC Post-Distribution Stock Value, as applicable.
 
Pre-Distribution Value means, with respect to a Person's MRO RSUs, the product of (a) the number of shares of MRO common stock subject to such MRO RSUs immediately prior to the Adjustment Time, and (b) the MRO Pre-Distribution Stock Value.
 
 
2.           A new Section 13.2(d) is added, as follows:
 
(d)           .
Special Rules
 
(i)
 
.  Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 13.2 respecting the conversion  of each MRO Unvested Option into a Remaining MRO Unvested Option or an MPC Unvested Option, the conversion for administrative convenience may be effected using any other reasonable methodology (an Alternate Methodology) recommended by or reasonably acceptable to the recordkeeper for the MRO Stock Plans provided (A) the conversion effected in accordance with the Alternate Methodology results in tax consequences for option holders which are no less favorable than the consequences to such option holders if the conversion was effected in accordance with the express provisions of this Section 13.2, (B) the conversion is (subject to Section 13.2(d)((ii)) effected on a uniform and consistent basis and (C) the difference for each option holder between the aggregate spread respecting his or her Remaining MRO Unvested Option (as determined using the MRO Post-Distribution Stock Value) or MPC Unvested Option (as determined using the MPC Stock Value) resulting from a conversion effected in accordance with the Alternative Methodology and the aggregate spread resulting from a conversion effected pursuant to the express provisions of this Section 13.2 is no more than one and two/tenths (1.2) percent.
Alternative Conversion Methodology
 
(ii)
 
.  Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 13.2 (including, for greater certainty, Section 13.2(d)(i)), respecting the conversion or adjustment of each MRO Unvested Option into a Remaining MRO Unvested Option or an MPC Unvested Option, as applicable, if MRO Unvested Options are held by a Person who, for the purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada) (the ), is a resident of Canada or who was granted such MRO Unvested Options in respect of, in the course of, or by virtue of employment in Canada, the conversion or adjustment of that Persons MRO Unvested Options shall be effected with such modifications as may be required such that: (A) any action under Section 13.2(b) which is called for at or as of the Effective Time shall be taken or completed at the time that is immediately before the time that is immediately before the Effective Time (in this Section 13.2(d)(ii), the applicable time for the actions under Section 13.2 is the ), (B) if the Canadian Pre-Distribution Spread respecting such Persons MRO Unvested Options is nil or positive, the Post-Distribution Spread of such Person's Remaining MRO Unvested Options or MPC Unvested Options, as applicable, shall be equal to or less than such Canadian Pre-Distribution Spread, and (C) if the Canadian Pre-Distribution Spread respecting such Persons MRO Unvested Options is negative, the Post-Distribution Spread of such Person's Remaining MRO Unvested Options or MPC Unvested Options, as applicable, shall be less than nil.  Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it is the intention that subsection 7(1.4) of the ITA shall apply to the adjustments and conversions contemplated in this Section 13.2(d)(ii).  Accordingly, if at any time hereafter, for the purposes of the ITA (or any corresponding provincial income tax legislation) and determining the income tax consequences, if any, of the actions taken pursuant to this Section 13.2(d)(ii), it is finally determined, whether by a tribunal or a court of competent jurisdiction, or otherwise that (A) the total value of the shares of common stock which may be acquired pursuant to a Person's Remaining MRO Unvested Options or MPC Unvested Options, as applicable, less the aggregate exercise price payable under such options, as determined immediately after the Adjustment Time, exceeds (B) the total value of the shares of common stock that could be acquired under that Person's MRO Unvested Options, less the aggregate amount payable under such options, as determined immediately before the Adjustment Time, then the results of the adjustment or conversion undertaken pursuant to this Section 13.2 shall be altered in order to ensure that the excess is reduced to nil by changing: (i) the number of shares of common stock subject to the Remaining MRO Unvested Options or MPC Unvested Options, as applicable,  (ii) the exercise price payable under the Remaining MRO Unvested Options or MPC Unvested Options, as applicable,  or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii).  Any changes made under (i), (ii), or (iii) will be deemed to be effective from and after the Adjustment Time.
Canadian Employees
ITA
Adjustment Time
 
3.           Section 13.3(b) is amended to read as follows:
 
(b)
 
Any MRO Vested Option that is held by an MRO Employee who is an employee of Marathon Oil Canada Corporation (Canada), Marathon Oil Sands (USA) Inc., Marathon Petroleum Company Norway LLC, Marathon Services Company or Marathon Services (G.B.) Limited (England) shall be converted as provided in Section 13.2(a) or 13.2(d)(ii), as applicable, rather than as provided in this Section 13.3, and any MRO Vested Option that is held by an MPC Employee  to whom MRO common stock registered on Form S-8 cannot be issued shall be converted as provided in Section 13.2(b), rather than as provided in this Section 13.3.
 
4.           A new Section 13.3(c) is added, as follows:
 
(c)
 
.
Special Rules
 
(i)
 
.  Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 13.3 respecting the conversion  of each MRO Vested Option into a Remaining MRO Vested Option or an MPC Vested Option, the conversion for administrative convenience may be effected using any other reasonable methodology (an Alternate Methodology) recommended by or reasonably acceptable to the recordkeeper for the MRO Stock Plans provided (A) the conversion effected in accordance with the Alternate Methodology results in tax consequences for option holders which are no less favorable than the consequences to such option holders if the conversion was effected in accordance with the express provisions of this Section 13.3, (B) the conversion is (subject to Section 13.3(b) and Section 13.3(c)((ii)) effected on a uniform and consistent basis and (C) the difference for each Person between the aggregate spread respecting such Persons Remaining MRO Vested  Option (as determined using the MRO Post-Distribution Stock Value) and MPC Vested Option (as determined using the MPC Stock Value) resulting from a conversion effected in accordance with the Alternative Methodology and the aggregate spread resulting from a conversion effected pursuant to the express provisions of this Section 13.3 is no more than one and two/tenths (1.2) percent.
Alternative Conversion Methodology
 
(ii)
 
.  Notwithstanding the express provisions of this Section 13.3, except for Section 13.3(b), respecting the adjustment of each MRO Vested Option into a Remaining MRO Vested Option and an MPC Vested Option, as applicable, if MRO Vested Options are held by a Person who, for the purposes of the ITA, is a resident of Canada or who was granted such MRO Vested Options in respect of, in the course of, or by virtue of employment in Canada, the  adjustment shall be effected with such modifications as may be required such that: (A) any action under this Section 13.3 which is called for at or as of the Effective Time shall be taken or completed at the Adjustment Time, (B) a proportionate number of that Person's MRO Vested Options shall be adjusted to become Remaining MRO Vested Options and a proportionate number of that Person's MRO Vested Options shall be adjusted to become MPC Vested Options, (C) if the Canadian Pre-Distribution Spread respecting such Persons MRO Vested Options is nil or positive, the Post-Distribution Spread of such Person's Remaining MRO Vested Options and MPC Vested Options shall be equal to or less than such Canadian Pre-Distribution Spread, and (D) if the Canadian Pre-Distribution Spread respecting such Persons MRO Vested Options is negative, the Post-Distribution Spread of such Person's Remaining MRO Vested Options and  MPC Vested Options shall be less than nil.  Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it is the intention that subsection 7(1.4) of the ITA shall apply to the adjustments contemplated in this Section 13.3(c)(ii).  Accordingly, if at any time hereafter, for the purposes of the ITA (or any corresponding provincial income tax legislation) and determining the income tax consequences, if any, of the actions taken pursuant to this Section 13.3(c)(ii), it is finally determined, whether by a tribunal or a court of competent jurisdiction, or otherwise that (A) the total value of the shares of common stock which may be acquired pursuant to a Person's Remaining MRO Vested Options and MPC Vested Options, less the aggregate exercise price payable under such options, as determined immediately after the Adjustment Time, exceeds (B) the total value of the shares of common stock that could be acquired under that Person's MRO Vested Options, less the aggregate amount payable under such options, as determined immediately before the Adjustment Time, then the results of the adjustment undertaken pursuant to this Section 13.3 shall be altered in order to ensure that the excess is reduced to nil by changing: (i) the number of shares of common stock subject to the Remaining MRO Vested Options or MPC Vested Options, (ii) the exercise price payable under the Remaining MRO Vested Options or MPC Vested Options, as applicable,  or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii).  Any changes made under (i), (ii), or (iii) will be deemed to be effective from and after the Adjustment Time.
Canadian Employees
 
5.           A new Section 13.6(d) is added, as follows:
 
(d)
 
.  Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 13.6, if MRO RSUs are held by a Person who, for the purposes of the ITA, is a resident of Canada or who was granted such MRO RSUs in respect of, in the course of, or by virtue of employment in Canada, the conversion or adjustment of that Person's MRO RSUs shall be effected such that: (A) any action under Section 13.6(b) which is called for at or as of the Effective Time shall be taken or completed at the Adjustment Time, (B) the Post-Distribution Value of such Person's MRO RSUs as adjusted under Section 13.6(a) or such Person's MPC RSUs, as applicable, shall be equal to or less than the Pre-Distribution Value of such Person's MRO RSUs determined immediately before the Adjustment Time.  Notwithstanding anything herein contained, it is the intention that the adjustments contemplated in this Section 13.6 be completed on a tax-neutral basis under the provisions of the ITA.  Accordingly, if at any time hereafter, for the purposes of the ITA (or any corresponding provincial income tax legislation) and determining the income tax consequences, if any, of the actions taken pursuant to this Section 13.6(c), it is finally determined, whether by a tribunal or a court of competent jurisdiction, or otherwise that (A) the total value of the shares of common stock which may be acquired pursuant to a Person's MRO RSUs (as adjusted under this Section 13.6) or MPC RSUs, as determined immediately after the Adjustment Time, exceeds (B) the total value of the shares of common stock that could be acquired under that Person's MRO RSUs, as determined immediately before the Adjustment Time, then the results of the adjustment undertaken pursuant to this Section 13.6 shall be altered in order to ensure that the excess is reduced to nil by changing the number of shares of common stock subject to the MRO RSUs (as adjusted under this Section 13.6) or MPC RSUs, as applicable.  Any such change will be deemed to be effective from and after the Adjustment Time.
Special Rule for Canadian RSU Holders
 
           
6.
Miscellaneous.
 
This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original but all of which together shall be considered one and the same amendment and shall become effective when counterparts have been signed by each of the Parties and delivered to the other Party, it being understood that each of the Parties need not sign the same counterpart.  When this Amendment becomes effective pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, (i) all references to this Agreement in the Employee Matters Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the Employee Matters Agreement as amended by this Amendment, and (ii) all references to the Employee Matters Agreement in the Distribution Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the Employee Matters Agreement as amended by this Amendment, unless the context otherwise requires.  Except as amended hereby, all provisions of the Employee Matters Agreement are and will remain in full force and effect.  To the extent not preempted by applicable federal law, this Amendment shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the substantive laws of the State of New York, without regard to any conflicts of law provisions thereof that would result in the application of the laws of any other jurisdiction.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their authorized representatives as of the date first above written.
 
 


