FILE:MRO/MRO-8K-20110601153453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrants Employee Benefit Plans.
Item 5.04.
On May 25, 2011, Marathon Oil Corporation (Marathon) sent a notice (the MOC Thrift Blackout Notice) to Marathons directors and executive officers informing them of certain restrictions on the Marathon Oil Company Thrift Plan (the MOC Thrift Plan) in connection with the anticipated separation of Marathons downstream (refining, marketing and transportation) operations from its other operations through the distribution of shares of common stock of a wholly owned subsidiary, Marathon Petroleum Corporation (MPC), to holders of outstanding shares of common stock of Marathon (the Spin-off), which is expected to be completed on June 30, 2011.  Following the Spin-off, MPC will be an independent, publicly traded company, and Marathon will not retain any ownership interest in MPC.  As a result of the Spin-off, account activity in the MOC Thrift Plan will be temporarily restricted by Fidelity Investments (Fidelity), the administrator of the MOC Thrift Plan, for a period of time beginning on June 29, 2011 at 4:00 p.m. EST and expecting to end by July 11, 2011 (the MOC Thrift Blackout Period). In addition, on May 25, 2011, Marathon received notice from Fidelity of a blackout period as required by section 101(i)(2)(E) of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
Additionally, on May 25, 2011, Marathon sent a notice (the MPC Thrift Blackout Notice) to its directors and officers whose accounts are expected to be transferred to a newly established thrift plan of MPC (the MPC Thrift Plan) in connection with the Spin-off, informing them of certain restrictions in the MOC Thrift Plan and the MPC Thrift Plan.  As a result of the Spin-off, account activity in the MOC Thrift Plan and the MPC Thrift Plan will be temporarily restricted by Fidelity for a period of time beginning on June 24, 2011 at 4:00 p.m. EST and expecting to end by July 11, 2011 (the MPC Thrift Blackout Period).
On May 26, 2011, a clarifying notice (the Clarifying Notice) was sent to Marathons directors and executive officers further explaining the nature of the Spin-off.
Each of the MOC Thrift Blackout Notice, the MPC Thrift Blackout Notice and the Clarifying Notice, which were provided in accordance with Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of Regulation BTR under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, advises Marathons directors and executive officers that during the MOC Thrift Blackout Period and the MPC Thrift Blackout Period, they will be generally prohibited from engaging in a number of plan-related activities, including purchasing, selling or otherwise acquiring or transferring common stock of Marathon, common stock of MPC or any other equity security or derivative security of Marathon acquired in connection with their service as a director or employment as an executive officer.
Copies of the MOC Thrift Blackout Notice, the MPC Thrift Blackout Notice and the Clarifying Notice are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, Exhibit 99.2 and Exhibit 99.3, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
During the MOC Thrift Blackout Period and the MPC Thrift Blackout Period and for two years after the ending date of the MOC Thrift Blackout Period and MPC Thrift Blackout Period, a stockholder or other interested person may obtain, without charge, information regarding the actual ending date of the MOC Thrift Blackout Period or the MPC Thrift Blackout Period by contacting Sylvia Kerrigan, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary at Marathon Oil Corporation, 5555 San Felipe Road, Houston, Texas 77056, or by telephone at (713) 629-6600.
9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
                 
(d)
Exhibits
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
2
 
 
99.1           Notice to Directors and Executive Officers of Marathon Oil Corporation: Important Notice Concerning Your Rights Under the Marathon Oil Company Thrift Plan, dated May 25, 2011.
99.2           Notice to Directors and Executive Officers of Marathon Oil Corporation: Important Notice Concerning Your Rights Under the Marathon Oil Company Thrift Plan and the Marathon Petroleum Thrift Plan, dated May 25, 2011.
99.3           Notice to Directors and Executive Officers of Marathon Oil Corporation: Further Information Regarding the Blackout Period, dated May 26, 2011.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
This notice is being provided because federal law generally requires that you be furnished notice of a blackout period at least 30 days in advance of the last date on which you could exercise your affected rights immediately before the commencement of any blackout period in order to provide you with sufficient time to consider the effect of the blackout period on your retirement and financial plans.
The information contained herein has been provided by Marathon and is solely the responsibility of Marathon.

Exhibit 99.2
 
This notice is being provided because federal law generally requires that you be furnished notice of a blackout period at least 30 days in advance of the last date on which you could exercise your affected rights immediately before the commencement of any blackout period in order to provide you with sufficient time to consider the effect of the blackout period on your retirement and financial plans.
 
The information contained herein has been provided by Marathon and is solely the responsibility of Marathon.
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
You have just recently, or will shortly, receive a notice regarding blackout periods which will affect the Marathon Oil Company and Marathon Petroleum Thrift Plans.  The purpose of this e-mail is to fully clarify the nature of the Marathon Petroleum Corporation (Marathon Petroleum) separation from Marathon Oil Corporation (Marathon Oil) which was referred to as a split in the blackout notices but is a spin-off not a stock split.  The blackout dates referenced in the notices remain unchanged.
 
The spin-off involves the distribution of shares of Marathon Petroleum to holders of Marathon Oil common stock.  Following the distribution of Marathon Petroleum common stock on June 30, Marathon Petroleum will be an independent, publicly traded company, and Marathon Oil will retain no ownership interest.  Marathon Petroleum has received approval for the listing of its common stock on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "MPC."  Marathon Oil will remain a publicly traded company as it has been in the past.
 
There is no need for you to take any action with respect to this communication.


