FILE:MRO/MRO-8K-20110201172156.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 1, 2011, Marathon Petroleum Corporation ("MPC"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Marathon Oil Corporation ("Marathon"), completed a private placement of $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of MPC's 3
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "2016 Notes"), $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of MPC's 5
 1
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "2021 Notes") and $1,250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of MPC's 6
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2041(the "2041 Notes" and, together with the 2016 Notes and the 2021 Notes, the "Notes"), pursuant to a purchase agreement dated as of January 27, 2011 among MPC, Marathon and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as representatives of the initial purchasers.
The 2016 Notes will mature on March 1, 2016, the 2021 Notes will mature on March 1, 2021 and the 2041 Notes will mature on March 1, 2041. Interest on each series of Notes will be payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning on September 1, 2011, to the persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the close of business on February 15 and August 15, respectively, preceding the interest payment date. The Notes are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of MPC and rank equally with all its other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
The Notes were issued under an Indenture dated as of February 1, 2011 between MPC and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), relating to senior debt securities of MPC, as supplemented by an Officers' Certificate dated February 1, 2011 establishing each series of Notes (as so supplemented, the "Indenture").
In connection with the private placement, Marathon entered into a Guarantee Agreement dated as of February 1, 2011 (the "Guarantee Agreement"), pursuant to which Marathon initially will guarantee the payment obligations under each series of Notes on a senior unsecured basis (the "Marathon Guarantees"). Pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee Agreement, the Marathon Guarantees will terminate upon completion of the previously announced proposed spin-off of MPC's common stock to Marathon's stockholders (the "Spin-off"). The Marathon Guarantees are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Marathon and rank equally with all its other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
The Indenture includes covenants that, among other things, limit MPC's ability, and the ability of MPC's subsidiaries, to create or permit to exist mortgages and other liens with respect to principal properties, enter into sale and leaseback transactions with respect to principal properties and merge or consolidate with any other entity or sell or convey all or substantially all of its assets, and require MPC to provide certain information to the Trustee and holders of the Notes. These covenants are subject to a number of important qualifications and limitations as set forth in the Indenture. In addition, if MPC experiences a "Change of Control Repurchase Event" (as defined in the Indenture) with respect to a series of Notes, MPC will be required, unless it has exercised its right to redeem the Notes of such series, to offer to purchase the Notes of such series at a purchase price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
The Indenture also contains customary events of default. Under the Indenture, events of default with respect to each series of Notes include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
In connection with the private placement, MPC and Marathon granted the initial purchasers certain registration rights under a Registration Rights Agreement dated as of February 1, 2011 among MPC, Marathon and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as representatives of the initial purchasers (the "Registration Rights Agreement").
Certain of the initial purchasers and their affiliates have provided in the past to MPC, Marathon and each of their respective affiliates and may provide from time to time in the future, certain commercial banking, financial advisory, investment banking and other services in the ordinary course of their business, for which they have received and may continue to receive customary fees and commissions and have also been, and may in the future be, from time to time, counter-parties to cross-currency and interest rate exchange agreements or other hedging agreements with Marathon. In addition, from time to time, the initial purchasers and their affiliates may effect transactions for their own account or the account of customers, and hold on behalf of themselves or their customers, long or short positions in MPC's and Marathon's debt securities. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated is acting as financial advisor to Marathon in connection with the Spin-off. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and an affiliate of Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated have agreed to serve as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners for MPC's proposed new credit facility, and affiliates of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated are expected to be lenders under that credit facility.
The Indenture, the form of the terms of the Notes, the form of the Notes, the Guarantee Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement are included as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of February 1, 2011, between MARATHON PETROLEUM CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office at 539 South Main Street, Findlay, Ohio 45840-3229, and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee").
The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series as in this Indenture provided.
All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows:
SECTION 1.01 .
Definitions
For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
 
 
 
 
 
"Act," when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 1.04.
"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
"Authenticating Agent" means any Person authorized by the Trustee pursuant to Section 6.14 to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of one or more series.
"Board of Directors" means the board of directors or comparable governing body of the Company or any duly authorized committee thereof.
"Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Business Day," when used with respect to any Place of Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
"Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
"Company" means Marathon Petroleum Corporation until a successor corporation shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean that successor corporation.
"Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any two of its Chairman of the Board, any Vice Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its President, its Chief Operating Officer, its Chief Financial Officer, any Vice President, its Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, its Comptroller, any Assistant Comptroller, its Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the aggregate value of all assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries after deducting therefrom (i) all current liabilities (excluding all long-term debt due within one year), (ii) all investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries and all investments accounted for on the equity basis, and (iii) all goodwill, patents and trademarks, unamortized debt discounts and other similar intangibles (all determined in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and calculated on a basis consistent with the Company's most recent audited consolidated financial statements).
 
"Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which at the date of original execution of this Indenture is located at The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., 601 Travis Street, 16th Floor, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, except that, with respect to presentation of securities for payment or registration of transfers or exchanges, such term means the office or agency of the Trustee located at The Bank of New York Mellon, 101 Barclay, 7 East, New York, New York 10286, Attention: Corporate Trust.
"corporation" includes associations, corporations, companies, limited liability companies and business trusts.
"Covenant Defeasance" has the meaning specified in Section 13.03.
"Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 3.07.
"Defeasance" has the meaning specified in Section 13.02.
"Depositary" means, with respect to Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depositary for such Securities as contemplated by Section 3.01.
"Dollar" means the coin or currency of the United States as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
"Establishment Action" shall mean
 
 
"Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01.
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
"Foreign Currency" means a currency of the government, or governments, of any country, or countries, other than the United States of America.
"Foreign Government Obligations" means, with respect to the Securities of any series that are denominated in a Foreign Currency, securities that are
 
 
which, in either case under clause (i) or (ii), are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof.
"Global Security" means a Security that evidences all or part of the Securities of any series and bears the legend set forth in Section 2.04 (or such legend as may be specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for such Securities).
"Government Obligations" means U.S. Government Obligations and Foreign Government Obligations.
"Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
"Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended pursuant to the provisions hereof, and includes the terms of a particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 3.01.
"interest," when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
"Interest Payment Date," when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
"Maturity," when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
"Mortgage" means, as the context may require, (i) to mortgage, pledge, encumber or subject to a lien or (ii) a mortgage, pledge, encumbrance or lien.
"Notice of Default" means a written notice of the kind specified in Section 5.01(4).
"Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by any two of the Chairman of the Board, any Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, any Vice President, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Comptroller, any Assistant Comptroller, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
 
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be an employee of, or counsel to, the Company, and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
"Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02.
"Outstanding," when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
 
 
 
 
, , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given, made or taken any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action hereunder as of any date:
provided
however
 
 
 
 
Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
"Paying Agent" means the Company or any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of and/or any premium or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company.
"Person" means any individual, association, corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
"Place of Payment," when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of and/or any premium or interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 3.01(6).
"Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 3.06 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
"Redemption Date," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
"Redemption Price," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
"Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 3.01.
 
"Responsible Officer," when used with respect to the Trustee, means an officer in the corporate trust department of the Trustee having direct responsibility for administration of this Indenture.
"Securities" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
"Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
"Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 3.05.
"Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 3.07.
"Stated Maturity," when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
"Subsidiary" means a Person more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries.
"Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed; , , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
provided
however
"Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
"United States" means the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia) and its possessions at the relevant date. As of the date of this Indenture, the possessions of the United States include Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Wake Island and the Northern Mariana Islands.
"U.S. Government Obligation" has the meaning specified in Section 13.04.
"Vice President," when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president."
 
"Voting Power" means the total voting power represented by all outstanding shares of all classes of Voting Stock.
"Voting Stock" means a Person's stock of any class or classes (however designated), including membership interests, membership shares or other similar equity interests, having ordinary Voting Power for the election of the directors or members of a similar governing body of such Person, other than stock having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency.
SECTION 1.02 .
Compliance Certificates and Opinions
Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee such certificates and opinions as may be required under the Trust Indenture Act. Each such certificate or opinion shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate, if to be given by an officer of the Company, or an Opinion of Counsel, if to be given by counsel, and shall comply with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and any other requirements set forth in this Indenture.
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (except for certificates provided for in Section 10.04) shall include:
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1.03 .
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or
 
representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or opinion of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
SECTION 1.04 .
Acts of Holders; Record Dates
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is herein expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 6.01) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security. With respect to any amendment or supplement hereof or waiver hereunder, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent, waiver or other Act delivered with respect thereto as to his or her Security or portion of a Security if the Trustee receives written notice of revocation before a date and time therefor identified by the Company in a notice furnished to such Holder in accordance with the terms of this Indenture or, if no such date and time shall be identified, the date such amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective. An amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms and thereafter binds every Holder.
 
The Company may, in the circumstances permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, fix any day as the record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Securities entitled to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, or to vote on any action, authorized or permitted to be given or taken by Holders of Securities. If not set by the Company prior to the first solicitation of a Holder of Securities made by any Person other than the Company in respect of any such action, or, in the case of any such vote, prior to such vote, the record date for any such action or vote shall be the 30th day (or, if later, the date of the most recent list of Holders required to be provided) prior to such first solicitation or vote, as the case may be. With regard to any record date, only the Holders of Securities on such date (or their duly designated proxies) shall be entitled to give or take, or vote on, the relevant action.
SECTION 1.05 .
Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
 
 
SECTION 1.06 .
Notice to Holders; Waiver of Notice
Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at the address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.
 
SECTION 1.07 .
Conflict With Trust Indenture Act
If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act which is required under such Act to be a part of and govern this Indenture, the latter provision shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act which may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be.
SECTION 1.08 .
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
SECTION 1.09 .
Successors
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 1.10 .
Separability Clause
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 1.11 .
Benefits of Indenture; No Recourse Against Others
Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture. A director, officer, employee, stockholder, partner or other owner of the Company or the Trustee, as such, shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or for any obligations of the Company or the Trustee under this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of those obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Security waives and releases all that liability. The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of Securities.
SECTION 1.12 .
Governing Law
This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York, without giving effect to any principles of conflicts of laws thereunder to the extent the application of the laws of another jurisdiction would be required thereby.
 
SECTION 1.13 .
Legal Holidays
In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities (other than a provision of any Security which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section)) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity, and no interest with respect to such payment shall accrue for the intervening period.
SECTION 1.14 .
Force Majeure
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of third-party utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts that are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
SECTION 1.15 .
Waiver of Jury Trial
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, AND EACH HOLDER BY ACCEPTANCE OF ITS SECURITIES SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE WAIVED, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS INDENTURE.
SECTION 2.01 .
Forms Generally
The Securities of each series shall be in substantially the form set forth in this Article, or in such other form as shall be established by an Establishment Action or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or Depositary therefor or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution thereof. If the form of Securities of any series is established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company or by an Officers' Certificate and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 3.03 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities.
 
The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
SECTION 2.02 .
Form of Face of Security
[Insert any legend required by the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder.]
 
MARATHON PETROLEUM CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to , or registered assigns, the principal sum of Dollars [if the Security is a Global Security, insert  , or such greater or lesser amount as indicated on the Schedule of Exchanges of Securities attached hereto,] on [if the Security is to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert  , and to pay interest thereon from or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on and in each year, commencing , at the rate of % per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment [if applicable, insert  , provided that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest, which is overdue shall bear interest at the rate of % per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand]. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the or (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture].
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
        
        
                    
                    
 
[If the Security is not to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert  The principal of this Security shall not bear interest except in the case of a default in payment of principal upon acceleration, upon redemption or at Stated Maturity and in such case the overdue principal and any overdue premium shall bear interest at the rate of % per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment. Interest on any overdue principal or premium shall be payable on demand. [Any such interest on overdue principal or premium which is not paid on demand shall bear interest at the rate of % per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest on interest shall be legally enforceable), from the date of such demand until the amount so demanded is paid or made available for payment. Interest on any overdue interest shall be payable on demand.]]
        
        
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and [if applicable, insert  any such] interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in , in such [coin or currency of the United States of America] [Foreign Currency, consistent with the provisions below,] as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts [if applicable, insert  ; , , that (1) payments on any Global Security shall be made by electronic (same-day) funds transfer to the Depositary and (2) at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register or by electronic funds transfer to an account maintained by the Person entitled thereto as specified in the Security Register, provided that such Person shall have given the Trustee written instructions].
                    
provided
however
[If the security is payable in a foreign currency, insert the appropriate provision.]
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Dated:.
                     
 
 
SECTION 2.03 .
Form of Reverse of Security
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of February 1, 2011 (herein called the "Indenture," which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof [if applicable, insert  , limited in aggregate principal amount to $].
        
[If applicable, insert  The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days' notice by mail, [if applicable, insert  (1) on in any year commencing with the year and ending with the year through operation of the sinking fund for this series at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount, and (2)] at any time [if applicable, insert  on or after , 20], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the following Redemption Prices (expressed as percentages of the principal amount): If redeemed [if applicable, insert  on or before , %, and if redeemed] during the 12-month period beginning of the years indicated,
                    
            
            
                    
        
                    
        
                    
 
and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to % of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption [if applicable, insert  (whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise)] with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.]
        
[If applicable, insert  The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days' notice by mail, (1) on in any year commencing with the year and ending with the year through operation of the sinking fund for this series at the Redemption Prices for redemption through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth in the table below, and (2) at any time [if applicable, insert  on or after ], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the Redemption Prices for redemption otherwise than through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth in the table below: If redeemed during the 12-month period beginning of the years indicated,
                    
            
            
            
                    
 
 
and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to % of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption (whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise) with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Dates or Special Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.]
        
[If applicable, insert  The sinking fund for this series provides for the redemption on in each year beginning with the year and ending with the year of [if applicable, insert  not less than $ ("mandatory sinking fund") and not more than] $ aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series. Securities of this series acquired or redeemed by the Company otherwise than through [if applicable, insert  mandatory] sinking fund payments may be credited against subsequent [if applicable, insert  mandatory] sinking fund payments otherwise required to be made [if applicable, insert  , in the inverse order in which they become due].]
                    
            
            
        
        
[If the Security is subject to redemption of any kind, insert  In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.]
[If applicable, insert  The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of [the entire indebtedness of this Security] [or] [certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security] [, in each case] upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.]
[If the Security is an Original Issue Discount Security, insert  If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, an amount of principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. Such amount shall be equal to  insert formula for determining the amount. Upon payment (i) of the amount of principal so declared due and payable and (ii) of interest on any overdue principal, premium and interest (in each case to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), all of the Company's obligations in respect of the payment of the principal of and premium and interest, if any, on the Securities of this series shall terminate.]
 
[If applicable, insert a paragraph regarding the indexing of the Security.]
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee to modify the Indenture or any supplemental indenture without the consent of the Holders for one or more of the following purposes: (1) to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company; (2) to add to the covenants of the Company; (3) to add additional events of default for the benefit of Holders of all or any series of Securities; (4) to add to or change provisions of the Indenture to allow for the issuance of Securities in other forms; (5) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of the Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities thereunder, under certain conditions specified therein; (6) to secure the Securities pursuant to the requirements of Section 10.05 of the Indenture or otherwise; (7) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 2.01 and 3.01 of the Indenture; (8) to evidence the appointment of a successor Trustee; and (9) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision of the Indenture which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision of the Indenture, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under the Indenture as shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect.
The Indenture also permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $ and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
        
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but, subject to any applicable provisions of the Indenture, the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
SECTION 2.04 .
Form of Legend for Global Securities
Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for the Securities evidenced thereby, every Global Security authenticated and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of a Depositary or a nominee thereof. This Security may not be exchanged in whole or in part for a Security registered, and no transfer of this Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than such Depositary or a nominee thereof, except in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture.
 
SECTION 2.05
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.
The Trustee's certificates of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated:
 
SECTION 3.01
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.
The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
The Securities may be issued from time to time in one or more series. The terms of each series of Securities shall, prior to the issuance of Securities of such series, be either:
 
 
Such Establishment Action or supplemental indenture shall provide:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in the Establishment Action referred to above or in any indenture supplemental hereto. The Company shall provide to the Trustee a copy of any such Establishment Action.
SECTION 3.02
Denominations.
The Securities of each series shall be issuable only in registered form without coupons and only in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 3.01. In the absence of any such specified denomination with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.
SECTION 3.03
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.
The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, any Vice Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its President or one of its Vice Presidents, and attested by its Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with the Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established by one or more Establishment Actions as permitted by Sections 2.01 and 3.01, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 6.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating:
 
 
 
If such form or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 and of the preceding paragraph, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Establishment Action otherwise required pursuant to Section 3.01 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to such preceding paragraph at or prior to the authentication of each Security of such series if such documents are delivered at or prior to the authentication upon original issuance of the first Security of such series to be issued.
Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 3.09, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
SECTION 3.04
Temporary Securities.
Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
 
If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor one or more definitive Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of like tenor and aggregate principal amount. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series and tenor.
SECTION 3.05
Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange; Global Securities.
The Company shall cause to be kept in an office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment a register (the register maintained in any such office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities. The Trustee, or any other party serving in such capacity with the Trustee's consent, is hereby appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided.
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of a series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of like tenor and aggregate principal amount.
At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 3.04, 9.06 or 11.07 not involving any transfer.
 
If the Securities of any series (or of any series and specified tenor) are to be redeemed in part, the Company shall not be required (A) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Securities of that series (or of that series and specified tenor, as the case may be) during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of any such Securities selected for redemption under Section 11.03 and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (B) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
The provisions of the following clauses shall apply only to Global Securities:
 
 
 
 
 
and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice or event;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3.06
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities.
If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
SECTION 3.07
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.
Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.01 with respect to any series of Securities, interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest.
 
Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (1) or (2) below:
 
 
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
SECTION 3.08
Persons Deemed Owners.
Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 3.07) any interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
SECTION 3.09 .
Cancellation
All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. Until directed otherwise by a Company Order, all cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be conspicuously marked as such and thereafter treated in accordance with the Trustee's document retention policies; , , if any cancelled Security is destroyed by the Trustee, the Trustee shall deliver to the Company a certificate with respect to such destruction.
provided
however
SECTION 3.10 .
Computation of Interest
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
SECTION 4.01
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.
This Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect with respect to any (or all) series of Securities (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to such Securities, when:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose (x) money in an amount (in such currency, currencies or currency unit or units in which the Securities of such series are payable), or (y) in the case of Securities denominated in Dollars, U.S. Government Obligations, or, in the case of Securities denominated in a Foreign Currency, Foreign Government Obligations, with respect to such Securities, maturing as to principal and interest at such times and in such amounts as will ensure the availability of money in the currency in which payment of such Securities is to be made in an amount or (z) a combination thereof, which will be sufficient, in the opinion (in the case of clauses (y) and (z)) of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal and any premium and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be; or
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 6.07, the obligations of the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent under Section 6.14 and, if money or Government Obligations shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 4.02, Article VI and the last paragraph of Section 10.03 shall survive.
 
SECTION 4.02 .
Application of Trust Money
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 10.03, all money and Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.01 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal and any premium and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee.
SECTION 5.01 .
Events of Default
"Event of Default," wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days;
or
 
 
 
 
 
or
 
When a Default or Event of Default is cured, it ceases.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.01, if the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security is payable in a currency or currencies other than Dollars and such currency or currencies are not available to the Company for making payment thereof due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company (a "Conversion Event"), the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligations to Holders of the Securities by making such payment in Dollars in an amount equal to the Dollar equivalent of the amount payable in such other currency, as determined by the Company by reference to the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers for such currency, as such rate is certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the "Exchange Rate"), on the date of such payment, or, if such rate is not then available, on the basis of the most recently available Exchange Rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.01, any payment made under such circumstances in Dollars where the required payment is in a currency other than Dollars will not constitute an Event of Default under this Indenture.
Promptly after the occurrence of a Conversion Event, the Company shall give written notice thereof to the Trustee; and the Trustee, promptly after receipt of such notice, shall give notice thereof in the manner provided in Section 1.06 to the Holders. Promptly after the making of any payment in Dollars as a result of a Conversion Event, the Company shall give notice in the manner provided in Section 1.06 to the Holders, setting forth the applicable Exchange Rate and describing the calculation of such payments.
SECTION 5.02
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 5.01(5) or 5.01(6)) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount of all the Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified by the terms thereof) to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 5.01(5) or 5.01(6) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs, the principal amount of all the Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified by the terms thereof) shall automatically, and without any declaration or other action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder, become immediately due and payable.
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
 
 
 
 
 
and
 
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
SECTION 5.03 .
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee
The Company covenants that if
 
 
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates (or yield to maturity in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) prescribed therefor in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, except as a result of the Trustee's negligence or bad faith.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
 
SECTION 5.04
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
In case of any judicial proceeding relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), its property or its creditors, the Trustee shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, to take any and all actions authorized under the Trust Indenture Act in order to have claims of the Holders and the Trustee allowed in any such proceeding. In particular, the Trustee shall be authorized to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07 except as a result of its negligence or bad faith.
No provision of this Indenture shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding; , , that the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders, vote for the election of a trustee in bankruptcy or similar official and be a member of a creditors' or other similar committee.
provided
however
SECTION 5.05 .
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities
All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel (except no such provision shall be made respecting compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances made as a result of Trustee's negligence), be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
SECTION 5.06 .
Application of Money Collected
Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or any premium or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07.
 
SECOND: In case the principal of the outstanding Securities of any series in respect of which such moneys have been collected shall not have become due, to the payment of interest on the Securities of such series, in the order of maturity of the installments of such interest, with interest (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon the overdue installments of interest at the same rate or the yield to maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) specified on the Securities of such series, such payments to be made ratably to the persons entitled thereto, without discrimination or preference.
THIRD: In case the principal of the outstanding Securities of any series in respect of which such moneys have been collected shall have become due, by declaration, or otherwise, to the payment of the whole amount then owing and unpaid upon the Securities of such series for principal, premium (if any) and interest, with interest upon the overdue principal, premium (if any) and (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon overdue installments of interest at the same rate or the yield to maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) specified on the Securities of such series; and in case such moneys shall be insufficient to pay in full the whole amount so due and unpaid upon the Securities of such series, then to the payment of such principal, premium (if any) and interest, without preference or priority of principal and premium (if any), or of any installment of interest over any other installment of interest, or of any Security of such series over any other Security of such series, ratably to the aggregate of such principal and accrued and unpaid interest.
SECTION 5.07 .
Limitation on Suits
No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
 
 
 
 
 
 
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all of such Holders.
SECTION 5.08 .
Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 3.07) interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
SECTION 5.09 .
Restoration of Rights and Remedies
If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
SECTION 5.10 .
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of Section 3.06, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
SECTION 5.11 .
Delay or Omission Not Waiver
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
 
SECTION 5.12 .
Control by Holders
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series, provided that:
 
 
 
SECTION 5.13 .
Waiver of Past Defaults
The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default:
 
 
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
SECTION 5.14 .
Undertaking for Costs
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit to file an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and may assess costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any such party litigant, in the manner and to the extent provided in the Trust Indenture Act; provided that neither this Section nor the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to authorize any court to require such an undertaking or to make such an assessment in any suit instituted by the Company or the Trustee.
SECTION 5.15 .
Waiver of Usury, Stay or Extension Laws
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of,
 
any usury, stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
SECTION 6.01 .
Certain Duties and Responsibilities
The duties and responsibilities of the Trustee shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. The Trustee need perform only those duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture and the Trust Indenture Act, and no covenants or obligations shall be implied in or read into this Indenture against the Trustee. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
SECTION 6.02 .
Notice of Defaults
If a default occurs hereunder with respect to Securities of any series, the Trustee shall give the Holders of Securities of such series notice of such default as and to the extent provided by the Trust Indenture Act; , , that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 5.01(4) with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 60 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this Section, the term "default" means any event or events, as the case may be, specified in Section 5.01, not including periods of grace, if any, provided for therein.
provided
however
SECTION 6.03
Certain Rights of Trustee.
Subject to the provisions of Section 6.01:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 6.04 .
Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent assumes any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. Neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
SECTION 6.05 .
May Hold Securities
The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to 6.08 and 6.13, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
SECTION 6.06 .
Money Held in Trust
Money held by the Trustee, or any Paying Agent, in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. Neither the Trustee nor any Paying Agent shall be under any liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Company.
SECTION 6.07 .
Compensation, Reimbursement and Indemnification
The Company agrees:
 
 
 
 
In the event any action, suit or proceeding is brought against any Trustee in connection with any claim for which it is entitled to indemnity hereunder, it shall promptly notify the Company in writing, enclosing a copy of all papers served. Failure or delay by the Trustee to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of its obligations hereunder, except to the extent the Company shall not have been prejudiced as a result of such failure or delay. All counsel employed to defend any such claim shall be retained directly by the Company and may serve as counsel to the Company and/or one or more Trustees. Absent a conflict of interest, the Company shall not be required to pay the fees and expenses of more than one law firm in connection with its obligations hereunder. A Trustee entitled to indemnification may, in addition to counsel engaged by the Company, engage counsel to represent such Trustee at its sole expense. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the Company shall not be liable to pay any settlement agreed to without its written consent.
In the event the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in any proceedings which result from the occurrence or continuance of an Event of Default under Section 5.01(5) or 5.01(6) hereof, or from the occurrence of any event which, solely by virtue of the passage of time, would become such an Event of Default, the expenses so incurred (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and compensation for services so rendered are intended to constitute expenses of administration under the United States Bankruptcy Code or equivalent law.
The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of this Indenture.
SECTION 6.08 .
Conflicting Interests
If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture. To the extent permitted by such Act, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have a conflicting interest by virtue of being a trustee under this Indenture with respect to Securities of more than one series.
SECTION 6.09 .
Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility
There shall at all times be one (and only one) Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of each series, which may be Trustee hereunder for Securities of one or more other series. Each Trustee shall be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and has, or is a subsidiary of a bank or bank holding company that has, a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If any such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section and to the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effects hereinafter specified in this Article.
 
SECTION 6.10 .
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor
(a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 6.11.
(b) The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 6.11 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(c) The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 6.11 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of removal, the Trustee being removed may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(d) If, at any time,
 
 
 
then, in any such case,
 
 
 
(e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series) and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 6.11. If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 6.11, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 6.11, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series to all Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided in Section 1.06. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
SECTION 6.11 .
Acceptance of Appointment by Successor
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which
 
(i) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (ii) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (iii) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and, upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.
Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in the first or second preceding paragraph, as the case may be.
No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.
SECTION 6.12 .
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business
Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
 
SECTION 6.13 .
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other obligor).
SECTION 6.14 .
Appointment of Authenticating Agent
The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon original issue and upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to Section 3.06, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent must be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having, or being a subsidiary of a bank or bank holding company having, a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
In case at the time such successor to any Authenticating Agent with respect to any series shall succeed to such Authenticating Agent, any of the Securities of such series shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to such Authenticating Agent may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Authenticating Agent and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Securities of such series shall not have been authenticated, any successor to any Authenticating Agent may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of successor Authenticating Agent; and in all such cases such certificate shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities of such series or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the predecessor Authenticating
 
Agent shall have; , , that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Authenticating Agent or to authenticate Securities in the name of any predecessor Authenticating Agent shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation.
provided
however
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which must be acceptable to the Company and shall give notice of such appointment in the manner provided in Section 1.06 to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
Any Authenticating Agent by the acceptance of its appointment shall be deemed to have agreed with the Trustee that: it will perform and carry out the duties of an Authenticating Agent as herein set forth; it will keep and maintain and furnish to the Trustee from time to time as requested by the Trustee appropriate records of all transactions carried out by it as Authenticating Agent and will furnish the Trustee such other information and reports as the Trustee may reasonably require; it is eligible for appointment as Authenticating Agent under this Section 6.14 and will notify the Trustee promptly if it shall cease to be so qualified; and it will indemnify the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense incurred by the Trustee and will defend any claim asserted against the Trustee by reason of acts or failures to act of the Authenticating Agent but it shall have no liability for any action taken by it at the specific written direction of the Trustee.
The Trustee agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be reimbursed for such payments, subject to the provisions of Section 6.07.
If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternative certificate of authentication in the following form:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
SECTION 7.01 .
Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders
 
 
 
excluding from any such list names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.
SECTION 7.02 .
Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders
The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 7.01 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee, or its designee, in its capacity as Security Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 7.01 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act.
Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.
SECTION 7.03 .
Reports by Trustee
The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto.
 
Reports so required to be transmitted at stated intervals of not more than 12 months shall be transmitted no later than sixty days after each May 15 following the date of first issuance.
A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Company. (The Company will notify the Trustee when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange pursuant to Section 7.04.)
SECTION 7.04 .
Reports by Company
The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to such Act; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is so filed with the Commission.
The Company shall notify the Trustee when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange.
SECTION 8.01 .
Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms
The Company covenants that it will not merge or consolidate with any other Person or sell or convey all or substantially all of its assets to any Person, except that the Company may merge or consolidate with, or sell or convey all or substantially all of its assets to, any other Person, provided that:
 
 
For purposes of this Section 8.01, "substantially all of its assets" shall mean, at any date, a portion of the non-current assets reflected in the Company's consolidated balance sheet as of the end of the most recent quarterly period that represents at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66
 2
/
3
%) of the total reported value of such assets.
SECTION 8.02 .
Successor Substituted
In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person of the obligations under this Indenture and the Securities in accordance with Section 8.01, such successor Person shall succeed to and be substituted for the Company, with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a party hereto, and the Company shall thereupon be relieved of any further obligations or liabilities hereunder and upon the Securities and the Company as the predecessor Person may thereupon or at any time thereafter be dissolved, wound-up or liquidated. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed, and may issue either in its own name or in the name of the predecessor Person, any or all of the Securities issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee and, upon the order of such successor Person, instead of the Company, and subject to all the terms, conditions and limitations in this Indenture prescribed, the Trustee shall authenticate and shall deliver any Securities which previously shall have been signed and delivered by the officers of the Company to the Trustee for authentication and any Securities which such successor Person thereafter shall cause to be signed and delivered to the Trustee for that purpose. All the Securities so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Indenture as the Securities theretofore or thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Indenture as though all of such Securities had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.
In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance, such changes in phraseology and form (but not in substance) may be made in the Securities thereafter to be issued as may be appropriate.
SECTION 9.01 .
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders
Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for one or more of the following purposes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by a Board Resolution, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 9.03, the Trustee shall, subject to Section 9.03, join with the Company in the execution of any supplemental indenture authorized or permitted by the terms of this Indenture and make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained.
SECTION 9.02 .
Supplemental Indentures With Consent of Holders
With the consent (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Securities of any one or more series or all series or a solicitation of consents in respect of Securities of any one or more series or all series, provided that in each case such offer or solicitation is made to all Holders of then outstanding Securities of each such series (but the terms of such offer or solicitation may vary from series to series)) of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture (acting as one class), by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby:
provided
however
 
 
 
 
Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by a Board Resolution, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the Act of the Holders as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 9.03, the Trustee shall, subject to Section 9.03, join with the Company in the execution of such amendment or supplemental indenture.
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
SECTION 9.03 .
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 6.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel and Officers' Certificate stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee shall enter into any such supplemental indenture that does not adversely affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise. If it does, the Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such supplemental indenture.
SECTION 9.04 .
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
SECTION 9.05 .
Conformity With Trust Indenture Act
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to any applicable requirements of the Trust Indenture Act.
SECTION 9.06 .
Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
 
SECTION 10.01 .
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest
The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid the principal of (including any amount in respect of original issue discount) and any premium and interest on each of the Securities of such series at the Place of Payment, at the respective times and in the manner provided in the Securities and this Indenture. Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.01 with respect to any series of Securities, principal, premium and interest shall be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent (other than the Company) holds by 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on that date money in immediately available funds deposited by the Company designated for and sufficient to pay all principal, premium and interest then due. The principal of, premium, and interest on the Securities shall be payable only in accordance with the terms of the relevant Security.
SECTION 10.02 .
Maintenance of Office or Agency
The Company will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and in each other Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, or an affiliate of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and in each other Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided
however
SECTION 10.03 .
Money for Securities Payments to be Held in Trust
If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal and any premium and interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such amount, such sum to be held as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
The Company will cause each Paying Agent, other than the Trustee or the Company, for any series of Securities to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will (1) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent and (2) during the continuance of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment in respect of the Securities of that series, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums held in trust by such Paying Agent for payment in respect of the Securities of that series. Each of the Company and the Trustee, having agreed to the foregoing on its behalf as a Paying Agent by its execution and delivery of this instrument, has hereby satisfied the provisions of this paragraph with respect to itself as a Paying Agent.
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in New York, New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company free of the trust formerly impressed upon it.
provided
however
 
SECTION 10.04 .
Statement by Officers as to Default
The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, a statement signed by the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer of the Company, which need not constitute an Officers' Certificate, complying with Trust Indenture Act  314(a)(4) and stating whether or not to the knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and, if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
SECTION 10.05 .
Mortgage of Certain Property
If the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company shall Mortgage as security for any indebtedness for money borrowed any property capable of refining crude oil which (i) is located in the United States and (ii) is determined to be a principal property by the Board of Directors in its discretion, the Company will secure or will cause such Subsidiary to secure each series of the Securities equally and ratably with all indebtedness or obligations secured by the Mortgage then being given and with any other indebtedness of the Company or such Subsidiary then entitled thereto; , , that this covenant shall not apply in the case of:
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing restriction contained in this Section 10.05, the Company may and may permit its Subsidiaries to incur liens or grant Mortgages on property covered by the restriction above so long as the net book value of the property so encumbered, together with all property subject to the restriction on sale and leasebacks contained in Section 10.06, does not, at the time such lien or Mortgage is granted, exceed fifteen percent (15%) of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
SECTION 10.06 .
Sale and Leaseback of Certain Properties
The Company will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary of the Company to, sell or transfer any property capable of refining crude oil which (i) is located in the United States and (ii) is determined to be a principal property by the Board of Directors in its discretion, with the intention of taking back a lease of such property; , , this covenant shall not apply if:
provided
however
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of such a sale or transfer, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee the Board Resolution referred to in the parenthetical phrase contained in subclause (4)(B) of this Section 10.06 and an Officers' Certificate setting forth all material facts under this Section 10.06. For the purposes of this Section 10.06 the term retirement of such funded debt shall include the "in substance defeasance" of such funded debt in accordance with then applicable accounting rules.
SECTION 10.07 .
Waiver of Certain Covenants
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of such series and except with respect to compliance with any covenant the modification of which would require the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby pursuant to Section 9.07, the Company may, with respect to the Securities of any series, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in any covenant provided herein for the benefit of the Holders of such series, if before the time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by Act of such Holders (which may be obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for Securities of such series or a solicitation of consents in respect of Securities of such series, provided that in each case such offer or solicitation is made to all Holders of then outstanding Securities of such series (but the terms of such offer or solicitation may vary from series to series)), either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
 
SECTION 11.01 .
Applicability of Article
Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for such Securities) in accordance with this Article.
SECTION 11.02 .
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for such Securities. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of less than all the Securities of any series (including any such redemption affecting only a single Security), the Company shall, at least 45 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date, of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed and, if applicable, of the tenor of the Securities to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction.
SECTION 11.03 .
Selection by Trustee of Securities to be Redeemed
If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed (unless all the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed or unless such redemption affects only a single Security), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of a portion of the principal amount of any Security of such series, provided that the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of any Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination or any integral multiple thereof) for such Security. If less than all the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed (unless such redemption affects only a single Security), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series and specified tenor not previously called for redemption in accordance with the preceding sentence.
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption as aforesaid and, in case of any Securities selected for partial redemption as aforesaid, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
 
The provisions of the two preceding paragraphs shall not apply with respect to any redemption affecting only a single Security, whether such Security is to be redeemed in whole or in part. In the case of any such redemption in part, the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of the Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
SECTION 11.04 .
Notice of Redemption
Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 days (or not less than 15 days in the case of convertible Securities) nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his address appearing in the Security Register.
All notices of redemption shall state:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given or caused to be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company and shall be irrevocable.
SECTION 11.05 .
Deposit of Redemption Price
Prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 10.03) an amount of money in immediately available funds sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
SECTION 11.06 .
Securities Payable on Redemption Date
Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; , , that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01, installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 3.07.
provided
however
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and any premium shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
SECTION 11.07 .
Securities Redeemed in Part
Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
SECTION 11.08 .
Purchase of Securities
Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01, the Company and any Affiliate of the Company may at any time purchase or otherwise acquire Securities in the open market or by private agreement. Any such acquisition shall not operate as or be deemed for any purpose to be a redemption of the indebtedness represented by such Securities. Any Securities purchased or acquired by the Company may be delivered to the Trustee and, upon such delivery, the indebtedness represented thereby shall be deemed to be satisfied. Section 3.09 shall apply to all Securities so delivered.
 
SECTION 12.01 .
Applicability of Article
The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of any series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for such Securities.
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of any Securities is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment," and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of such Securities is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment." If provided for by the terms of any Securities, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 12.02. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities as provided for by the terms of such Securities.
SECTION 12.02.
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities
The Company
 
 
in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to any Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as and to the extent provided for by the terms of such Securities; provided that the Securities to be so credited have not been previously so credited. The Securities to be so credited shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price, as specified in the Securities so to be redeemed, for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
SECTION 12.03 .
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund
Not less than 45 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for such Securities pursuant to the terms of such Securities, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities pursuant to Section 12.02 and will
 
also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 15 nor more than 45 days prior to each such sinking fund payment date, the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 11.03 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 11.04. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 11.06 and 11.07.
SECTION 13.01 .
Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
The Company may elect, at its option at any time, to have Section 13.02 or Section 13.03 applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, designated pursuant to Section 3.01 as being defeasible pursuant to such Section 13.02 or 13.03, in accordance with any applicable requirements provided pursuant to Section 3.01 and upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article. Any such election shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for such Securities.
SECTION 13.02 .
Defeasance and Discharge
Upon the Company's exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to such Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by such Securities and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), subject to the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder:
 
 
 
 
Subject to compliance with this Article, the Company may exercise its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option (if any) to have Section 13.03 applied to such Securities.
 
SECTION 13.03 .
Covenant Defeasance
Upon the Company's exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be,
 
 
in each case with respect to such Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Covenant Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to such Securities, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such specified Section (to the extent so specified in the case of Section 5.01(4)), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to any other provision herein or in any other document, but the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby.
SECTION 13.04 .
Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
The following shall be the conditions to the application of Section 13.02 or Section 13.03 to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be:
 
 
 
 
 
in each case sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee in the case of clauses (B) and (C) above, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or any such other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities on the respective Stated Maturities, in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and such Securities. As used herein, "U.S. Government Obligation" means:
 
 
 
which, in either case (i) or (ii), is not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof; and
 
 
 
 
in either case (A) or (B) to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of such Securities will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit, Defeasance and discharge to be effected with respect to such Securities and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit, Defeasance and discharge were not to occur.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 13.05 .
Deposited Money and U.S. Government Obligations to Be Held in Trust; Miscellaneous Provisions
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 10.03, all money, U.S. Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) and Foreign Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee or other qualifying trustee (solely for purposes of this Section and Section 13.06, the Trustee and any such other trustee are referred to collectively as the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 13.04 in respect of any Securities shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any such Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal and any premium and interest, but money so held in trust need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the U.S. Government Obligations and Foreign Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 13.04 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof, other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of Outstanding Securities.
Anything in this Article to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money, U.S. Government Obligations or Foreign Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 13.04 with respect to any Securities which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect the Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance, as the case may be, with respect to such Securities.
SECTION 13.06 .
Reinstatement
If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with this Article with respect to any Securities by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the obligations under this Indenture and such Securities from which the Company has been discharged or released pursuant to Section 13.02 or 13.03 shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article with respect to such Securities, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all money held in trust pursuant to Section 13.05 with respect to such Securities in accordance with this Article; , , that if the Company makes any payment of principal of or any premium or interest on any such Security following such reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights (if any) of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money so held in trust.
provided
however
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
Three series of Securities are hereby established pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Indenture dated as of February 1, 2011 between Marathon Petroleum Corporation (the "Company") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "Trustee"), relating to senior debt securities of the Company (the "Indenture") as follows:
1. Each capitalized term used but not defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Indenture.
2. The title of the 3
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2016 shall be the "3
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2016" (the "2016 Notes"), the title of the 5
 1
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2021 shall be the "5
 1
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2021" (the "2021 Notes") and the title of the 6
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2041 shall be the "6
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2041" (the "2041 Notes" and, together with the 2016 Notes and the 2021 Notes, the "Notes"). The Notes will be offered pursuant to the Indenture.
3. The aggregate principal amount of the 2016 Notes, the 2021 Notes and the 2041 Notes that may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be $750,000,000, $1,000,000,000 and $1,250,000,000, respectively (except for Notes of such series authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Notes of such series pursuant to Section 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 9.06 or 11.07 of the Indenture, and except for any Notes of such series which, pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Indenture, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered thereunder); that the authorized aggregate principal amount of the Notes of each series may be increased before or after the issuance of any Notes of such series by a Board Resolution (or action pursuant to a Board Resolution) to such effect; that the authorized aggregate principal amount of the Notes of each series may be increased only if the additional Notes issued will be fungible with the original Notes of such series for United States federal income tax purposes.
provided, however,
provided further, however,
4. The date on which the principal of the 2016 Notes, the 2021 Notes and the 2041 Notes is due and payable, unless accelerated pursuant to the Indenture, is March 1, 2016, March 1, 2021 and March 1, 2041, respectively.
5. The 2016 Notes shall bear interest at the rate of 3.500% per annum, the 2021 Notes shall bear interest at the rate of 5.125% per annum and the 2041 Notes shall bear interest at the rate of 6.500% per annum. The date from which interest shall accrue for the Notes of each series shall be February 1, 2011. Interest shall be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 of each year (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing September 1, 2011, to each Person in whose name the Notes (or one or more Predecessor Securities with respect to such Notes) are registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest. The Regular Record Dates for interest payable on the Notes of each series shall be the February 15 or August 15 (as the case may be), whether or not a Business Day, immediately preceding an Interest Payment Date. Interest on the Notes of each series shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
 
6. The Notes shall be issuable only in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. Subject to any prior conditions stated in the Indenture, the Notes shall be issued in definitive form.
7. The place or places where (a) the principal of, premium (if any) and interest on the Notes shall be payable, (b) the Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange and (c) notices may be given to the Company in respect of the Notes, is the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee in New York, New York, or such other offices or agencies maintained for such purposes as the Company may designate from time to time and in accordance with the Indenture; provided that payment of interest, other than at Maturity, may be made, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register or by electronic funds transfer to an account maintained by the Person entitled thereto as such account shall appear in the Security Register.
8. The Notes of each series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice by mail, in whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at any time, in the case of the 2016 Notes and the 2021 Notes, and at any time prior to September 1, 2040, in the case of the 2041 Notes, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of Notes of such series to be redeemed or (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the then current Treasury Rate plus 25 basis points for the 2016 Notes, 30 basis points for the 2021 Notes and 35 basis points for the 2041 Notes, plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the Redemption Date. At any time on or after September 1, 2040, the 2041 Notes are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice by mail, in whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such Notes to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the Redemption Date. For purposes of the foregoing:
"Business Day" means any calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York or Findlay, Ohio and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York and Findlay, Ohio.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("Remaining Life") of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
 
"Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers that the Company appoints to act as the Independent Investment Banker from time to time.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and two additional dealers in U.S. Government securities selected by the Company (each a "Primary Treasury Dealer") and their respective successors which the Company specifies from time to time; , , that if any of them ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
provided
however
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to: (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; that, if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life of the Notes to be redeemed, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month; or (2) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
provided
9. If a Change of Control Repurchase Event (as defined below) with respect to a series of Notes occurs after the distribution by Marathon Oil Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Marathon Oil"), to its stockholders of 100% of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock (the "Separation"), unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes of such series as provided in Section 8, the Company shall make an offer to each Holder of the Notes of such series to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes of such series at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to the date of purchase. Within 30
 
days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after the public announcement of the transaction or event that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder to which the Company is required to make a repurchase offer as described above, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or event that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Notes of the applicable series on the payment date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice may, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice.
The Company will be required to comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this Section 9, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict.
On the Change of Control Repurchase Event payment date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
The Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn the purchase price for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any such Notes surrendered; , that each new Note will be in a minimum principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
provided
The Company shall not be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means, with respect to a series of Notes, the rating on the Notes of such series is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies, and the Notes of such series are rated below Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies, within 60 days from the earlier of (1) the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control or (2) the occurrence of a Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes of such series is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies).
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following after consummation of the Separation:
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be considered to be a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (a) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiary of a holding company and (b) (y) immediately following that transaction, the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (z)
 
immediately following that transaction, no person (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence, is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the holding company.
"Change of Control Repurchase Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's board of directors who (1) was a member of such board of directors on the date of the consummation of the Separation; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such board of directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such board of directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
"Fitch" means Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its successors.
"Investment Grade" means a rating of BBB- or better by Fitch (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Fitch), Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P) or the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Services Inc. and its successors.
"Rating Agency" means (1) each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act, selected by the Company as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc., and its successors.
"Substantially all of the Company's assets" means, at any date, a portion of the non-current assets reflected in the Company's consolidated balance sheet as of the end of the most recent quarterly period that represents at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66
 2
/
3
%) of the total reported value of such assets.
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any Person as of any date, capital stock of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
10. The Notes are not subject to any sinking fund or analogous provisions. The Notes will not be redeemable at the option of the Holder thereof prior to Maturity.
 
11. The Company will not pay additional amounts on any of the Notes to Holders in respect of any tax, assessment or governmental charge withheld or deducted.
12. The Events of Default and covenants specified in the Indenture will apply to the Notes. In addition, with respect to the Notes of each series, the occurrence of the following event shall constitute an "Event of Default" for as long as the related Guarantees (as defined below) remain in effect: except as permitted by the Guarantee Agreement (as defined below), if such Guarantees shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect, or if Marathon Oil, or any person acting on its behalf, shall deny or disaffirm in writing Marathon Oil's obligation under the Guarantee.
13. The defeasance and covenant defeasance provisions of Article XIII of the Indenture, including both Sections 13.02 and 13.03 of the Indenture, will apply to the Notes.
14. The Notes of each series shall be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities. The Depositary for the Global Notes (as defined below) shall be The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), and the Global Notes shall be registered in the name of DTC or Cede & Co., as a nominee of DTC. Except as set forth herein or in Sections 2.03 or 3.05 of the Indenture, such Global Notes may only be transferred, in whole and not in part, to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary.
15. The Trustee will initially act as the Security Registrar for the Notes of each series and as the Paying Agent with respect to the Notes of each series.
16. The Notes of each series and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of hereto.
Exhibit 1
17. The initial offering and sale of the Notes shall not be registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws. The Notes shall be offered in reliance upon Rule 144A and Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
18. For so long as any of the Notes constitute "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) promulgated under the Securities Act, the Company shall, if the Company is not then subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, furnish to any Holder or beneficial owner of such Notes, or to any prospective purchaser of such Notes designated by such Holder or beneficial owner, in each case upon the written request of such Holder, beneficial owner or prospective purchaser, the information required to be provided pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) promulgated under the Securities Act.
19. The Notes of each series initially will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Marathon Oil, pursuant to guarantees (each, a "Guarantee") made under the terms and provisions of a Guarantee Agreement of Marathon Oil dated February 1, 2011 (the "Guarantee Agreement"). The Guarantees shall continue in full force and effect for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes and the Trustee until termination thereof as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement.
 
20. Notes of each series initially sold to "qualified institutional buyers" (as defined in Rule 144A) ("QIBs") in the United States in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act (the "Rule 144A Notes") shall be issued in the form of one or more permanent Global Securities of such series, without interest coupons, including appropriate legends as set forth herein (the "Rule 144A Global Notes" of such series), deposited with the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary. Notes of each series initially sold to non-U.S. persons outside the United States in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act (the "Regulation S Notes") shall initially be issued in the form of a temporary Global Security of such series, without interest coupons, including appropriate legends as set forth herein (the "Temporary Regulation S Global Note" of such series), deposited with the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary. Upon expiration of a 40-day "distribution compliance period" as defined in Regulation S (the "Distribution Compliance Period"), and upon the receipt by the Trustee of a written certificate from the Depositary, together with copies of certificates from Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. ("Euroclear"), as operator of the Euroclear System, and Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme ("Clearstream"), certifying that they have received certification of non-United States beneficial ownership of 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Temporary Regulation S Global Note of a series (except to the extent of any beneficial owners thereof who acquired an interest therein during the Distribution Compliance Period pursuant to another exemption from registration under the Securities Act, or in a transaction not subject to registration under the Securities Act, and who will take delivery of a beneficial ownership interest in a Rule 144A Global Note of such series), the Temporary Regulation S Global Note of such series shall become a permanent Global Security of such series under the Indenture (the "Permanent Regulation S Global Note" of such series and, together with the Rule 144A Global Note of such series and the Temporary Regulation S Global Note of such series, the "Global Notes" of such series), and beneficial interests in such Temporary Regulation S Global Note shall become beneficial interests in the Permanent Regulation S Global Note. Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary set forth herein or in the Indenture, in no event shall beneficial interests in the Temporary Regulation S Global Note of a series be transferred or exchanged for Notes of such series in definitive form prior to (x) the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period and (y) the receipt by the Registrar of any certificates required pursuant to Rule 903(b)(3)(ii)(B) of Regulation S.
21. (a) Except as permitted by Section 21(c) or Section 22(d) hereof, each Rule 144A Global Note (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or in substitution thereof) shall bear the following legend (the "Private Placement Legend") and shall be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth therein (each defined term in the legend being defined as such for purposes of the legend only):
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE
 
HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED SECURITIES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") THAT IS ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY), ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE ISSUER'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D) OR (E) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
(b) Each Temporary Regulation S Global Note shall bear the following legend:
THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS SECURITY, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED SECURITIES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THIS SECURITY AND PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN).
Beneficial interests in the Temporary Regulation S Global Note may be held only through accounts of designated agents holding on behalf of Euroclear or Clearstream and may not be transferred to a U.S. person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. person (other than the Initial Purchasers (as defined below)) except in accordance with Section 22(b) and (c) hereof.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon consummation of the Exchange Offer (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of February 1, 2011 (the "Registration Rights Agreement") among the Company, Marathon Oil and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as representatives of the initial purchasers specified therein (the "Initial Purchasers")), the Company shall issue and, at the direction of the Company, the Trustee shall authenticate Notes ("Exchange Notes") in exchange for Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer, which Exchange Notes shall not bear the Private Placement Legend or the legend set forth in Section 21(b), and the Security Registrar shall rescind any restriction on the transfer of such Exchange Notes.
 
22. (a) The following provisions shall apply with respect to any proposed transfer of a Rule 144A Note prior to the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales of such Notes under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, and the Security Registrar shall refuse to register any transfer of such Notes not complying with the restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend and in this Section 22. In addition to the requirements set forth in Section 3.05 of the Indenture, Rule 144A Notes that are presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange pursuant to Section 3.05 of the Indenture shall be accompanied by the following additional information and documents, as applicable, upon which the Security Registrar may conclusively rely:
(i) if such Notes are being delivered to the Security Registrar by a Holder for registration in the name of such Holder, without transfer, a certification from such Holder to that effect (in substantially the form of hereto);
Exhibit 2
(ii) if such Notes are being transferred (1) to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, (2) pursuant to an exemption from registration in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act or (3) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form of hereto);
Exhibit 2
(iii) if such Notes are being transferred pursuant to an exemption from registration in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 of Regulation S, certifications to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form of and hereto) and an opinion of counsel to that effect if the Company or the Trustee so requests; or
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3
(iv) if such Notes are being transferred in reliance on and in compliance with another exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, a certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form of hereto) and an opinion of counsel to that effect if the Company or the Trustee so requests.
Exhibit 2
(b) In addition to the requirements set forth in Section 3.05 of the Indenture, a holder of a beneficial interest in the Temporary Regulation S Global Note who wishes to transfer its interest in such Note to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A who takes delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Rule 144A Global Note shall deliver to the Security Registrar a certification to that effect (in substantially the form of hereto) upon which the Security Registrar may conclusively rely. After the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period, interests in the Regulation S Note may be transferred without requiring the certification set forth in this Section 22(b).
Exhibit 2
(c) The transfer and exchange of Global Notes or beneficial interests therein shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with Section 3.05 of the Indenture and Section 21 and Section 22 hereof (including the restrictions on transfer set forth therein and herein) and the rules and procedures of the Depositary therefor, which shall include restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth therein and herein to the extent required by the Securities Act;
 
, that prior to the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period, transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests in the Temporary Regulation S Global Note may be made pursuant to such restrictions only (1) to a Person that is not a U.S. person or for the account or benefit of a Person that is not a U.S. person (other than an Initial Purchaser) within the meaning of Regulation S under the Securities Act or (2) to a QIB, in each case that hold such interests through Euroclear or Clearstream.
provided, however
(d) If Notes are issued upon the registration of transfer, exchange or replacement of Notes not bearing the Private Placement Legend, the Notes so issued shall not bear such legends. If Notes are issued upon the registration or transfer, exchange or replacement of Notes bearing the Private Placement Legend, or if a request is made to remove the Private Placement Legend on a Note, the Notes so issued shall bear the Private Placement Legend, or the Private Placement Legend shall not be removed, as the case may be, unless there is delivered to the Company and the Trustee such satisfactory evidence, which may include an opinion of counsel of recognized standing licensed to practice law in the State of New York and experienced in matters involving the Securities Act, as may be reasonably required by the Company that neither the Private Placement Legend nor the restrictions on transfer set forth therein are required to ensure that transfers thereof comply with the provisions of Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Regulation S, that such Notes are not "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144 or that such Notes were transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act. Upon provision of such satisfactory evidence, the Trustee, at the direction of the Company, shall authenticate and deliver a Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend. If a Private Placement Legend is removed from the face of a Note and the Note is subsequently held by an Affiliate of the Company, the Private Placement Legend shall be reinstated.
(e) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, neither the Trustee nor the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility to receive any letters, opinions or certifications, nor any responsibility to monitor compliance with any transfer restrictions, in connection with any transfer or exchange of any beneficial interest in a Global Security for a beneficial interest in the same Global Security.
 
Exhibit 1
 
: THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
[
FOR GLOBAL SECURITIES
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
: THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED SECURITIES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") THAT IS ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY), ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT
[
FOR RULE 144A GLOBAL NOTE
TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE ISSUER'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D) OR (E) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/ OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
]
[: THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS SECURITY, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED SECURITIES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THIS SECURITY AND PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN).]
FOR TEMPORARY REGULATION S GLOBAL NOTE
MARATHON PETROLEUM CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to , or registered assigns, the principal sum of Dollars ($), If the security is a Global Security, insert: or such greater or lesser amount as indicated on the Schedule of Exchanges of Securities attached hereto, on March 1, [2016] [2021] [2041], and to pay interest thereon from February 1, 2011 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year commencing September 1, 2011, at the rate of [3.500] [5.125] [6.500]% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the February 15 or August 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
            
            
            
[
]
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in New York, New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is
 
legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , that (1) payments on any Global Security shall be made by electronic (same-day) funds transfer to the Depositary and (2) at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register or by electronic funds transfer to an account maintained by the Person entitled thereto as specified in the Security Register, provided that such Person shall have given the Trustee written instructions.
provided, however
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Dated:
                    
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated:
                    
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of February 1, 2011 (herein called the "Indenture," which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $[750,000,000] [1,000,000,000] [1,250,000,000].
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days notice by mail, at any time [ prior to the Stated Maturity] [: prior to September 1, 2040], in whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of such Securities to be redeemed or (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the then current Treasury Rate plus [25] [30] [35] basis points, plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the Redemption Date. [ At any time on or after September 1, 2040, the Securities are subject to redemption prior to the Stated Maturity upon not less than 30 days' notice by mail, in whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such Securities to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the Redemption Date.]
for 2016 Notes and 2021 Notes:
for 2041 Notes
for 2041 Notes:
"Business Day" means any calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York or Findlay, Ohio and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York and Findlay, Ohio.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("Remaining Life") of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
"Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers that the Company appoints to act as the Independent Investment Banker from time to time.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and two additional dealers in U.S. Government securities selected by the Company (each a "Primary Treasury Dealer") and their respective successors which the Company specifies from time to time; , , that if any of them ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
provided
however
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to: (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; that, if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life of the Securities to be redeemed, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month; or (2) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
provided
Notice of the redemption will be mailed to holders of Securities by first-class mail at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. If fewer than all of the Securities are to be redeemed, the Trustee will select, not more than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date, the particular Securities or portions thereof for redemption from the outstanding Securities not previously called by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on or after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities or portions thereof called for redemption.
 
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
If a Change of Control Repurchase Event with respect to the Securities occurs after the distribution by Marathon Oil Corporation, a Delaware corporation, to its stockholders of 100% of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Securities, each Holder of Securities may require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Securities at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities repurchased to the date of purchase, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Indenture.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or of certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee to modify the Indenture or any supplemental indenture without the consent of the Holders for one or more of the following purposes: (1) to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company; (2) to add to the covenants of the Company; (3) to add additional events of default for the benefit of Holders of all or any series of Securities; (4) to add to or change provisions of the Indenture to allow for the issuance of Securities in other forms; (5) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of the Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities thereunder, under certain conditions specified therein; (6) to secure the Securities pursuant to the requirements of Section 10.05 of the Indenture or otherwise; (7) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 2.01 and 3.01 of the Indenture; (8) to evidence the appointment of a successor Trustee; and (9) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision of the Indenture which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision of the Indenture, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under the Indenture as shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect.
The Indenture also permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but, subject to any applicable provisions of the Indenture, the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
ABBREVIATIONS
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with rights of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
 
 
 
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE, OF ASSIGNEE
 
the within Security and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                                        
 
 
The original principal amount of this Security is U.S. Dollars ($). The following increases or decreases in the principal amount of this Security have been made:
            
            
 
 
 
Exhibit 2
 
This Certificate relates to $ principal amount of Notes held in
            
*
book-entry or
            
*
definitive form by (the "Transferor").
            
            
The Transferor has requested the Security Registrar by written order to exchange or register the transfer of a Note or Notes or beneficial interests therein (the "Transfer").
In connection with such request and in respect of each such Note or beneficial interest therein, the Transferor does hereby certify that the Transferor is familiar with the Indenture relating to the above-captioned Notes and that the Transfer does not require registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), because:*
 
 
 
 
 
Date:
Exhibit 3
FORM OF CERTIFICATE TO BE DELIVERED IN CONNECTION WITH TRANSFERS PURSUANT TO REGULATION S
 
This Certificate relates to $ principal amount of Notes held in
            
*
book-entry or
            
*
definitive form by (the "Transferor").
            
            
The Transferor has requested the Security Registrar by written order to exchange or register the transfer of a Note or Notes or beneficial interests therein (the "Transfer") for an interest in the Regulation S Temporary Global Note to be held with [Euroclear] [Clearstream] through the Depositary (in each case as defined in the Indenture related to the above-referenced Notes or the related Establishment Action (as defined in the Indenture)).
In connection with such request and in respect of each such Note or beneficial interest therein, the Transferor does hereby certify that the Transferor is familiar with such Indenture and Establishment Action and that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company and the Trustee are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby. Terms used in this certificate have the meanings set forth in Regulation S under the Securities Act.
 
Date:

Exhibit 4.4
Execution Version
GUARANTEE, dated as of February 1, 2011 (as amended from time to time, this ""), made by Marathon Oil Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), in favor of (a) the Holders (as defined in the Indenture (as defined below)) of (i) 3
Guarantee
Guarantor
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2016, (ii) 5
 1
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2021 and (iii) 6
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2041 (collectively, the ""), each of Marathon Petroleum Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and (b) The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the ""), as trustee under the Indenture with respect to the Securities.
Securities
Issuer
Trustee
SECTION 1. .
Guarantee
The Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees to the Holders from time to time of the Securities the full and punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of the principal of, premium, if any, on and interest on each series of Securities (the ""), according to the terms of the Securities and as set forth in the Indenture (as amended, modified or otherwise supplemented from time to time with applicability to the Securities, the ""), dated as of February 1, 2011, between the Issuer and the Trustee, and the Securities, in each case subject to any applicable grace period or notice requirement or both. The guarantee hereunder constitutes a guarantee of payment and not of collection.
Obligations
Indenture
SECTION 2. .
Guarantee Absolute
The Guarantor guarantees that the Obligations will be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and the Securities, regardless of any law, regulation or order now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction affecting any of such terms or the rights of Holders of the Securities with respect thereto. The liability of the Guarantor under this Guarantee shall be absolute and unconditional irrespective of:
(a) any lack of validity or enforceability of the Indenture, the Securities or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto;
(b) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Obligations, or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from the Indenture; or
(c) any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Issuer or a guarantor.
The obligation of the Guarantor to make any payment hereunder may be satisfied by causing the Issuer to make such payment.
SECTION 3. .
Termination of Guarantee
(a) This Guarantee shall terminate, and the obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee shall cease to exist, with respect to a particular series of Securities, upon payment in full of the Obligations with respect to such series of Securities.
(b) Unless earlier terminated pursuant to Section 3(a), this Guarantee shall terminate, and all obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee shall cease to exist, upon the distribution by the Guarantor to its shareholders of 100% of the outstanding shares of the Issuer's common stock (the ""). The Trustee and each Holder of the Securities shall be deemed to consent to such termination, without any action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of the Securities, upon effectiveness of the Separation.
Separation
SECTION 4. .
Waiver; Subrogation
(a) The Guarantor hereby waives notice of acceptance of this Guarantee, diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of merger or bankruptcy of the Issuer, any right to require a proceeding filed first against the Issuer, protest or notice with respect to the Securities or the indebtedness evidenced thereby and all demands whatsoever.
(b) The Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights of the Trustee or the Holders of any Securities against the Issuer in respect of any amounts paid to the Trustee or such Holder by the Guarantor pursuant to the provisions of this Guarantee; , that the Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce, or to receive any payments arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until all Obligations shall have been paid in full.
provided, however
SECTION 5. .
No Waiver; Remedies
No failure on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of any series of Securities to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
SECTION 6. .
Transfer of Interest
This Guarantee shall be binding upon the Guarantor, its successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by any Holder of Securities, the Trustee, and by their respective successors, transferees and assigns, pursuant to the terms hereof. This Guarantee shall not be deemed to create any right in, or to be in whole or in part for the benefit of, any other person.
SECTION 7. .
Amendment
(a) The Guarantor may amend this Guarantee at any time for any purpose without the consent of the Trustee or any Holder of Securities of any series; , that if such amendment adversely affects the rights of the Trustee or any Holder of any series of Securities in any material respect, the prior written consent of the Trustee or each Holder affected, as the case may be, shall be required.
provided, however
(b) Every amendment executed pursuant to this Section 7 shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, as then in effect (the "").
TIA
SECTION 8. .
Governing Law
THIS GUARANTEE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO ANY CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISIONS THEREOF THAT WOULD RESULT IN THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION.
SECTION 9. .
No Recourse Against Others
A director, officer, employee, stockholder, partner or other owner of the Guarantor, as such, shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation.
SECTION 10. .
Trust Indenture Act Controls
The Guarantor understands that this Guarantee may be qualified under the TIA and any provision of this Guarantee required by the TIA or deemed to be included in this Guarantee by virtue of the TIA is hereby incorporated by reference. If any provision of this Guarantee limits, qualifies or conflicts with any provision of the TIA that is required under the TIA to be part of and govern this Guarantee, the latter provision shall control. If any provision hereof modifies or excludes any provision of the TIA that may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Guarantee, as so modified or excluded, as the case may be.
SECTION 11. .
Reports by Guarantor
(a) The Guarantor shall file with the Trustee and the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ""), and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the TIA at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to the TIA; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is so filed with the Commission.
Commission
Exchange Act
(b) If the Guarantor is not subject to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the Guarantor shall furnish to all Holders of the Securities, for so long as such Securities constitute "restricted securities" under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and prospective purchasers of such Securities designated by the Holders thereof, promptly upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) promulgated under the Securities Act.
Securities Act
SECTION 12. .
Separability
In case any provision in this Guarantee shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby, it being intended that all of the provisions hereof shall be enforceable to the full extent permitted by law.
SECTION 13. .
Headings
The section headings of this Guarantee have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of this Guarantee and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
SECTION 14. .
Notices, Etc., to the Guarantor
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act (as defined in the Indenture) of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Guarantee to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with, the Guarantor by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Guarantor addressed to the address last furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Guarantor, or, if no such address has been furnished, to Treasurer, Marathon Oil Corporation, 5555 San Felipe Road, Houston, Texas 77056-2723.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Guarantor has caused this Guarantee to be duly executed and delivered by its officer thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written.
 
Agreed and Accepted:
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.
as Trustee under the Indenture
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION
This REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT dated February 1, 2011 (this "") is entered into by and among Marathon Petroleum Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), Marathon Oil Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated ("") and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC ("") as representatives (the "") of the initial purchasers listed in Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement (as defined below) (the "").
Agreement
Company
Guarantor
Morgan Stanley
J.P. Morgan
Representatives
Initial Purchasers
The Company, the Guarantor and the Representatives are parties to the Purchase Agreement dated January 27, 2011 (the ""), which provides for the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of (i) $750,000,000 principal amount of the Company's 3
Purchase Agreement
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2016 (the ""), (ii) $1,000,000,000 principal amount of its 5
2016 Notes
 1
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "") and (iii) $1,250,000,000 principal amount of its 6
2021 Notes
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2041 (the "" and, together with the 2016 Notes and the 2021 Notes, the ""), which initially will be guaranteed on an unsecured senior basis by the Guarantor pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee Agreement (as defined below) until completion of the Separation (as defined in the Purchase Agreement). As an inducement to the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company and the Guarantor have agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement.
2041 Notes
Securities
In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
"" shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City or Houston, Texas are authorized or required by law to remain closed.
Business Day
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Company
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(ii) hereof.
Exchange Dates
"" shall mean the exchange offer by the Company and, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 hereof, the Guarantor of Exchange Securities of each series for Registrable Securities of such series pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer
"" shall mean a registration under the Securities Act effected pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration
"" shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form) and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
"" shall mean senior notes of a series issued by the Company under the Indenture and, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 hereof, guaranteed by the Guarantor under the Guarantee Agreement, containing terms identical to the applicable series of Securities (except that the Exchange Securities will not be subject to restrictions on transfer or to any increase in annual interest rate for failure to comply with this Agreement) and to be offered to Holders in exchange for Registrable Securities of such series pursuant to the Exchange Offer for such series.
Exchange Securities
"" means the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
FINRA
"" means each free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) prepared by or on behalf of the Company and used by the Company in connection with the sale of the Securities or the Exchange Securities.
Free Writing Prospectus
"" shall mean the Guarantee Agreement of the Guarantor in favor of the holders of the Securities and, if applicable, the Exchange Securities, dated as of February 1, 2011, and as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Guarantee Agreement
"" shall mean the guarantees of the Securities and, if such guarantees are still in effect pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee Agreement at the time of issuance of any Exchange Securities, guarantees of the Exchange Securities by the Guarantor pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement until completion of the Separation.
Guarantees
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Guarantor
"" shall mean the Initial Purchasers, for so long as they own any Registrable Securities, and each of their successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become owners of Registrable Securities under the Indenture; that, for purposes of Section 4 and Section 5 hereof, the term "Holders" shall include Participating Broker-Dealers.
Holders
provided
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indemnified Person
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c) hereof.
Indemnifying Person
 
"" shall mean the Indenture dated as of February 1, 2011 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, and as the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof with applicability to the Securities and the Exchange Securities.
Indenture
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Initial Purchasers
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(xv) hereof.
Inspector
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof.
Issuer Information
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
J.P. Morgan
"" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities of each series; that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, any Registrable Securities owned directly or indirectly by the Company or any of its affiliates shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage or amount; and , , that if the Company shall issue any additional Securities under the Indenture prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer or, if applicable, the effectiveness of any Shelf Registration Statement, such additional Securities and the Registrable Securities to which this Agreement relates shall be treated together as one class for purposes of determining whether the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities has been obtained.
Majority Holders
provided
provided
further
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Morgan Stanley
"" shall mean a notice of registration statement and selling security holder questionnaire distributed to a Holder by the Company upon receipt of a Shelf Request from such Holder.
Notice and Questionnaire
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Participating Broker-Dealers
"" shall mean any Holder of Registrable Securities that has returned a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company in accordance with Section 2(b) hereof.
Participating Holder
"" shall mean an individual, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" shall mean the prospectus included in, or, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities Act, deemed a part of, a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or
Prospectus
 
supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including a prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to such prospectus, and in each case including any document incorporated by reference therein.
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Purchase Agreement
"" shall mean the Securities; that the Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities upon the earliest to occur of the following: (i) when a Registration Statement with respect to such Securities has become effective under the Securities Act and such Securities have been exchanged or disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement, (ii) when such Securities cease to be outstanding, (iii) when such Securities are sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (but not Rule 144A) or (iv) the date that is three years after the date of this Agreement.
Registrable Securities
provided
"" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following: (i) the Exchange Offer is not completed on or prior to the Target Registration Date or the Shelf Registration Statement, if required pursuant to Section 2(b)(i) or Section 2(b)(ii) hereof, has not become effective on or prior to the Target Registration Date, (ii) if the Company receives a Shelf Request pursuant to Section 2(b)(iii), the Shelf Registration Statement required to be filed thereby has not become effective by the later of (a) the Target Registration Date and (b) 90 days after delivery of such Shelf Request, (iii) the Shelf Registration Statement, if required by this Agreement, has become effective and thereafter ceases to be effective or the Prospectus contained therein ceases to be usable for resales of Registrable Securities, in each case whether or not permitted by this Agreement, at any time during the Shelf Effectiveness Period, and such failure to remain effective or usable for resales of Registrable Securities exists for more than 90 days (whether or not consecutive) in any 12-month period or (iv) the Shelf Registration Statement, if required by this Agreement, has become effective and thereafter, on more than two occasions of at least 30 consecutive days in any 12-month period during the Shelf Effectiveness Period, the Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective or the Prospectus contained therein ceases to be usable for resales of Registrable Securities, in each case whether or not permitted by this Agreement.
Registration Default
"" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company and the Guarantor with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC or FINRA registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable fees and disbursements of one counsel for any Underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities), (iii) all expenses of the Company and the Guarantor in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements or other similar agreements and any other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all rating agency fees incurred by the Company or
Registration Expenses
 
the Guarantor (including with respect to maintaining ratings of the Securities), (v) all fees and disbursements relating to the qualification of the Indenture under applicable securities laws, (vi) the fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel, (vii) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and the Guarantor and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the reasonable fees and disbursements of one counsel for the Participating Holders (which counsel shall be selected by the Participating Holders holding a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Registrable Securities held by such Participating Holders and which counsel may also be counsel for the Initial Purchasers) and (viii) the fees and disbursements of the independent registered public accountants of the Company and the Guarantor, including the expenses of any special audits or "comfort" letters required by or incident to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, but excluding fees and expenses of counsel to the Underwriters (other than fees and expenses set forth in clause (ii) above) or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder.
"" shall mean any registration statement of the Company and, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 hereof, the Guarantor that covers any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and all amendments and supplements to any such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Representatives
"" shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Securities
"" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
Securities Act
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Effectiveness Period
"" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration
"" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company and, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 hereof, the Guarantor that covers all or a portion of the Registrable Securities (but no other securities unless approved by a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities included on such Registration Statement held by the Participating Holders) on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Securities Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein or deemed a part thereof, all exhibits thereto and any document incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Registration Statement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Request
"" shall mean the staff of the SEC.
Staff
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(e) hereof.
Suspension Actions
"" shall mean January 27, 2012.
Target Registration Date
"" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended from time to time.
Trust Indenture Act
"" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
Trustee
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(e) hereof.
Underwriter
"" shall mean an offering in which Registrable Securities are sold to an Underwriter for reoffering to the public.
Underwritten Offering
2. . (a) To the extent not prohibited by any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, the Company and the Guarantor shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to (x) cause to be filed an Exchange Offer Registration Statement covering an offer to the Holders to exchange all the Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities and (y) have such Registration Statement become effective on or before the Target Registration Date and remain effective until 180 days after the last Exchange Date for use by one or more Participating Broker-Dealers. The Company and the Guarantor shall commence the Exchange Offer for each series promptly after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC and use their commercially reasonable efforts to complete the Exchange Offer for such series not later than 60 days after such effective date.
Registration Under the Securities Act
After the Exchange Offer Registration Statement has become effective, the Company and the Guarantor shall commence the Exchange Offer for each series by mailing the related Prospectus, appropriate letters of transmittal and other accompanying documents to each Holder stating, in addition to such other disclosures as are required by applicable law, substantially the following:
(i) that such Exchange Offer is being made pursuant to this Agreement and that all Registrable Securities of such series validly tendered and not properly withdrawn will be accepted for exchange;
(ii) the dates of acceptance for exchange (which shall be a period of at least 20 Business Days from the date such notice is mailed) (each, an "");
Exchange Date
 
(iii) that any Registrable Security not tendered will remain outstanding and continue to accrue interest but will not retain any rights under this Agreement, except as otherwise specified herein;
(iv) that any Holder electing to have a Registrable Security of a series exchanged pursuant to the Exchange Offer for such series will be required to (A) surrender such Registrable Security, together with the appropriate letters of transmittal, to the institution and at the address and in the manner specified in the notice, or (B) effect such exchange otherwise in compliance with the applicable procedures of the depositary for such Registrable Security, in each case prior to the close of business on the last Exchange Date with respect to such Exchange Offer; and
(v) that any Holder of Registrable Securities of a series will be entitled to withdraw its election, not later than the close of business on the last Exchange Date with respect to the Exchange Offer for such series, by (A) sending to the institution and at the address specified in the notice, a telegram, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of Registrable Securities delivered for exchange and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing its election to have such Securities exchanged or (B) effecting such withdrawal in compliance with the applicable procedures of the depositary for the Registrable Securities.
As a condition to participating in an Exchange Offer, a Holder will be required to represent to the Company and the Guarantor that (1) any Exchange Securities to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, (2) at the time of the commencement of such Exchange Offer it has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the Securities Act) of the Exchange Securities in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act, (3) it is not an "affiliate" (within the meaning of Rule 405 under the Securities Act) of the Company or the Guarantor and (4) if such Holder is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Registrable Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities, then such Holder will deliver a Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available a Prospectus to purchasers) in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
As soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date with respect to an Exchange Offer for Registrable Securities of a series, the Company and the Guarantor shall:
(i) accept for exchange Registrable Securities of such series or portions thereof validly tendered and not properly withdrawn pursuant to such Exchange Offer; and
(ii) deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Trustee for cancellation all Registrable Securities of such series or portions thereof so accepted for exchange by the Company and issue, and cause the Trustee to promptly authenticate and deliver to each Holder, Exchange Securities of such series equal in principal amount to the principal amount of the Registrable Securities of such series tendered by such Holder.
 
The Company and the Guarantor shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to complete each Exchange Offer as provided above and shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and other applicable laws and regulations in connection with each Exchange Offer. No Exchange Offer shall be subject to any conditions, other than that the Exchange Offer does not violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff.
(b) In the event that (i) the Company and the Guarantor determine that the Exchange Offer Registration provided for in Section 2(a) hereof is not available or the Exchange Offer for Registrable Securities of a series may not be completed as soon as practicable after the last Exchange Date with respect to such Exchange Offer because it would violate any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, (ii) such Exchange Offer is not for any other reason completed by the Target Registration Date or (iii) prior to the last Exchange Date with respect to such Exchange Offer, the Company receives a written request (a "") from any Initial Purchaser representing that it holds Registrable Securities of the applicable series that are or were ineligible to be exchanged in such Exchange Offer, the Company and the Guarantor shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be filed as soon as practicable after such determination, date or Shelf Request, as the case may be, a Shelf Registration Statement providing for the sale of all the Registrable Securities of such series by the Holders thereof and to have such Shelf Registration Statement become effective; that (a) no Holder will be entitled to have any Registrable Securities included in any Shelf Registration Statement, or entitled to use the prospectus forming a part of such Shelf Registration Statement, until such Holder shall have delivered a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire and provided such other information regarding such Holder to the Company as is contemplated by Section 3(b) hereof, and (b) the Company and the Guarantor shall be under no obligation to file any such Shelf Registration Statement before they are obligated to file an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Shelf Request
provided
In the event that the Company and the Guarantor are required to file a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to clause (iii) of the preceding sentence, the Company and the Guarantor shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to file and have become effective both an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof with respect to all Registrable Securities and a Shelf Registration Statement (which may be a combined Registration Statement with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) with respect to offers and sales of Registrable Securities held by the Initial Purchasers after completion of the Exchange Offer.
The Company and the Guarantor agree to use their commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the Securities covered thereby cease to be Registrable Securities (the "). The Company and the Guarantor further agree to supplement or amend the
Shelf Effectiveness Period"
 
Shelf Registration Statement, the related Prospectus and any Free Writing Prospectus if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company for such Shelf Registration Statement or by the Securities Act or by any other rules and regulations thereunder or if reasonably requested by a Participating Holder of Registrable Securities with respect to information relating to such Holder, and to use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective, if required, and such Shelf Registration Statement, Prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, to become usable as soon as thereafter practicable. The Company and the Guarantor agree to furnish to the Participating Holders copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC, as requested by the Participating Holders.
(c) The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with any registration pursuant to Section 2(a) or Section 2(b) hereof. Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
(d) An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC. A Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC or is automatically effective upon filing with the SEC as provided by Rule 462 under the Securities Act.
If a Registration Default occurs with respect to a series of Registrable Securities, the interest rate on the Registrable Securities of such series will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period beginning on the day immediately following such Registration Default and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until and including the date such Registration Default ends, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum. A Registration Default ends when the Securities of such series cease to be Registrable Securities or, if earlier, (1) in the case of a Registration Default under clause (i) or (ii) of the definition thereof, when the Exchange Offer for such series is completed or when the Shelf Registration Statement covering such Registrable Securities becomes effective or (2) in the case of a Registration Default under clause (iii) or clause (iv) of the definition thereof, when the Shelf Registration Statement again becomes effective or the Prospectus again becomes usable. If at any time more than one Registration Default has occurred and is continuing, then, until the next date that there is no Registration Default, the increase in interest rate provided for by this paragraph shall apply as if there occurred a single Registration Default that begins on the date that the earliest such Registration Default occurred and ends on such next date that there is no Registration Default.
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, if the applicable Exchange Offer is consummated, any Holder who was, at the time such Exchange Offer was pending and consummated, eligible to exchange, and did not validly tender or withdrew, its Securities for Exchange Securities in such Exchange Offer will not be entitled to receive any additional interest pursuant to the preceding paragraph, and such Securities will no longer constitute Registrable Securities hereunder.
 
(e) The Company and the Guarantor shall be entitled to suspend their obligation to file any amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement, furnish any supplement or amendment to a Prospectus included in a Shelf Registration Statement or any Free Writing Prospectus, make any other filing with the SEC that would be incorporated by reference into a Shelf Registration Statement, cause a Shelf Registration Statement to remain effective or the Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus usable or take any similar action (collectively, "") if there is a possible acquisition or business combination or other transaction, business development or event involving the Company, the Guarantor or either of their subsidiaries that may require disclosure in the Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus and the Company or the Guarantor determines that such disclosure is not in the best interest of the Company, the Guarantor and their stockholders or obtaining any financial statements relating to any such acquisition or business combination required to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus would be impracticable. Upon the occurrence of any of the conditions described in the foregoing sentence, the Company shall give prompt notice of the delay or suspension (but not the basis thereof) to the Participating Holders. Upon the termination of such condition, the Company shall promptly proceed with all Suspension Actions that were delayed or suspended and, if required, shall give prompt notice to the Participating Holders of the cessation of the delay or suspension (but not the basis thereof).
Suspension Actions
(f) Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, the Company and the Guarantor acknowledge that any failure by the Company or the Guarantor to comply with their obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it will not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Company's and the Guarantor's obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof.
3. . (a) In connection with their obligations pursuant to Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof, the Company and the Guarantor shall:
Registration Procedures
(i) prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement on the appropriate form under the Securities Act, which form (A) shall be selected by the Company and the Guarantor, (B) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the Participating Holders thereof and (C) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include or incorporate by reference all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith; and use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
 
(ii) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period in accordance with Section 2 hereof and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement and, as so supplemented, to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act; and keep each Prospectus current during the period described in Section 4(3) of, and Rule 174 under, the Securities Act that is applicable to transactions by brokers or dealers with respect to the Registrable Securities or Exchange Securities;
(iii) to the extent any Free Writing Prospectus is used, file with the SEC any Free Writing Prospectus that is required to be filed by the Company or the Guarantor with the SEC in accordance with the Securities Act and to retain a copy of any Free Writing Prospectus not required to be filed;
(iv) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Participating Holder, to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for such Participating Holders and to each Underwriter of an Underwritten Offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, preliminary prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such Participating Holder, counsel or Underwriter may reasonably request in order to facilitate the sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities thereunder; and, subject to Section 3(c) hereof, the Company and the Guarantor consent to the use of such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus or such Free Writing Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law by each of the Participating Holders and any such Underwriters in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by and in the manner described in such Prospectus, preliminary prospectus or such Free Writing Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with applicable law;
(v) use their commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions of the United States as any Participating Holder shall reasonably request in writing by the time the applicable Registration Statement becomes effective; cooperate with such Participating Holders in connection with any filings required to be made with FINRA; and do any and all other acts and things that may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each Participating Holder to complete the disposition in each such jurisdiction of the Registrable Securities owned by such Participating Holder; that neither the Company nor the Guarantor shall be required to (1) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (2) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (3) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not already so subject;
provided
 
(vi) notify counsel for the Initial Purchasers and, in the case of a Shelf Registration, notify each Participating Holder and counsel for such Participating Holders promptly and, if requested by any such Participating Holder or counsel, confirm such advice in writing (1) when a Registration Statement has become effective, when any post-effective amendment thereto has been filed and becomes effective, when any Free Writing Prospectus has been filed or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus has been filed, (2) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, including the receipt by the Company of any notice of objection of the SEC to the use of a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act, (3) if, between the applicable effective date of a Shelf Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of the Company or the Guarantor contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to an offering of such Registrable Securities cease to be true and correct in all material respects or if the Company or the Guarantor receives any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any U.S. jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose, (4) of the happening of any event during the period a Registration Statement is effective that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement or Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading and (5) of any determination by the Company or the Guarantor that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus would be appropriate;
(vii) notify counsel for the Initial Purchasers of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement, Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective;
(viii) use their commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or, in the case of a Shelf Registration, the resolution of any objection of the SEC pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act, including by filing an amendment to such Registration Statement on the proper form, as soon as reasonably practicable and provide prompt notice to each Holder or Participating Holder of the withdrawal of any such order or such resolution;
(ix) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Participating Holder, without charge, upon request, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto (without any documents incorporated therein by reference or exhibits thereto, unless requested), if such documents are not available via EDGAR;
 
(x) in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the Participating Holders to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends and enable such Registrable Securities to be issued in such denominations and, in the case of certificated securities, registered in such names (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) as such Participating Holders may reasonably request at least one Business Day prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities;
(xi) upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 3(a)(vi)(4) hereof, use their commercially reasonable efforts to prepare and file with the SEC a supplement or post-effective amendment to the applicable Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available) to purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and the Company and the Guarantor shall notify the Participating Holders (in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement) and the Initial Purchasers and any Participating Broker-Dealers known to the Company (in the case of an Exchange Offer Registration Statement) to suspend use of the Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, and such Participating Holders, such Participating Broker-Dealers and the Initial Purchasers, as applicable, hereby agree to suspend use of the Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, until the Company and the Guarantor have amended or supplemented the Prospectus or the Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, to correct such misstatement or omission;
(xii) a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus, any amendment to a Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to a Prospectus or a Free Writing Prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Representatives and their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, to the Participating Holders and their counsel) and make such of the representatives of the Company and the Guarantor as shall be reasonably requested by the Representatives or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Participating Holders or their counsel) available for discussion of such document; and the Company and the Guarantor shall not, at any time after initial filing of a Registration Statement, use or file any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus, any amendment of or supplement to a Registration Statement or a Prospectus or a Free Writing Prospectus, of which the Representatives and
 
their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Participating Holders and their counsel) shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy or to which the Representatives or their counsel (and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Participating Holders or their counsel) shall reasonably object in writing;
(xiii) obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Securities of each series or Registrable Securities of each series, as the case may be, not later than the initial effective date of a Registration Statement;
(xiv) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in connection with the registration of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be; cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act; and execute, and use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
(xv) in the case of a Shelf Registration, make available for inspection by a representative of the Participating Holders (an ""), any Underwriters participating in any disposition pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, one firm of attorneys and one firm of accountants designated by a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities held by the Participating Holders and one firm of attorneys and one firm of accountants designated by such Underwriters, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, all pertinent financial and other records, documents and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries reasonably requested by any such Inspector, Underwriter, attorney or accountant, and cause the respective officers, directors and employees of the Company and the Guarantor to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector, Underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement and customary due diligence related to the offering and sale of Registrable Securities thereunder, subject to such confidentiality agreements as the Company and the Guarantor may reasonably require and to any applicable privilege;
Inspector
(xvi) in the case of a Shelf Registration, use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause all Registrable Securities covered thereby to be listed on any securities exchange or any automated quotation system on which similar senior unconvertible debt securities issued by the Company are then listed if requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement, to the extent such Registrable Securities satisfy applicable listing requirements;
(xvii) if reasonably requested by any Participating Holder, promptly include or incorporate by reference in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective
 
amendment such information with respect to such Participating Holder as such Participating Holder reasonably requests to be included therein and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has received notification of the matters to be so included in such filing; and
(xviii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into such customary agreements and take all such other actions in connection therewith (including those requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities including, but not limited to, an Underwritten Offering and in such connection, (1) to the extent possible, make such representations and warranties to the Participating Holders and any Underwriters of such Registrable Securities with respect to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries and the Registration Statement, Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus and documents incorporated by reference or deemed incorporated by reference, if any, in each case, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings and consistent with the applicable representations and warranties in the Purchase Agreement and confirm the same if and when requested, (2) in connection with an Underwritten Offering, obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and the Guarantor (which counsel and opinions, in form, scope and substance, shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Participating Holders and such Underwriters and their respective counsel) addressed to each Participating Holder and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings and consistent with the opinions delivered pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, (3) in connection with an Underwritten Offering, obtain "comfort" letters from the independent registered public accountants of the Company and the Guarantor (and, if necessary, any other registered public accountant of any subsidiary of the Company or the Guarantor, or of any business acquired by the Company or the Guarantor for which financial statements and financial data are or are required to be included in the Registration Statement) addressed to each Participating Holder (to the extent permitted by applicable professional standards) and Underwriter of Registrable Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with underwritten offerings, including but not limited to financial information contained in any preliminary prospectus, Prospectus or Free Writing Prospectus and (4) in connection with an Underwritten Offering, deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold or the Underwriters, and which are customarily delivered in underwritten offerings, to evidence the continued validity of the representations and warranties made pursuant to clause (1) above and to evidence compliance with any customary conditions contained in an underwriting agreement.
(b) In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company may require, as a condition to including such Holder's Registrable Securities in such Shelf
 
Registration Statement, each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to the Company a Notice and Questionnaire and such other information regarding such Holder and the proposed disposition by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as the Company and the Guarantor may from time to time reasonably request in writing and require such Holder to agree in writing to be bound by all provisions of this Agreement applicable to such Holder. Each Holder of Registrable Securities as to which any Shelf Registration is being effected agrees to furnish promptly to the Company all information required to be disclosed so that the information previously furnished to the Company by such Holder is not materially misleading and does not omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances under which they were made.
(c) Each Participating Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company and the Guarantor of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 3(a)(vi)(2) or Section 3(a)(vi)(4) hereof, such Participating Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement until such Participating Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus and any Free Writing Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(a)(xi) hereof and, if so directed by the Company and the Guarantor, such Participating Holder will deliver to the Company and the Guarantor all copies in its possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Participating Holder's possession, of the Prospectus and any Free Writing Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities that is current at the time of receipt of such notice.
(d) If the Company and the Guarantor shall give any notice to suspend the disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement, the Company and the Guarantor shall extend the period during which such Registration Statement shall be maintained effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when the Holders of such Registrable Securities shall have received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus necessary to resume such dispositions or notice that such amendment or supplement is not necessary.
(e) The Participating Holders who desire to do so may sell such Registrable Securities in an Underwritten Offering. In any such Underwritten Offering, the investment bank or investment banks and manager or managers (each an "") that will administer the offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities included in such offering, subject in each case to consent by the Company (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
Underwriter
(f) No Holder of Registrable Securities may participate in any Underwritten Offering hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
 
4. . (a) The Staff has taken the position that any broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in the Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities (a "") may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
Participation of Broker-Dealers in Exchange Offer
Participating Broker-Dealer
The Company and the Guarantor understand that it is the Staff's position that if the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement includes a plan of distribution containing a statement to the above effect and the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Securities, without naming the Participating Broker-Dealers or specifying the amount of Exchange Securities owned by them, such Prospectus may be delivered by Participating Broker-Dealers (or, to the extent permitted by law, made available to purchasers) to satisfy their prospectus delivery obligation under the Securities Act in connection with resales of Exchange Securities for their own accounts, so long as the Prospectus otherwise meets the requirements of the Securities Act.
(b) In light of the above, and notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, the Company and the Guarantor agree to amend or supplement the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement for a period of up to 180 days after the last Exchange Date (as such period may be extended pursuant to Section 3(d) hereof), if requested by one or more Participating Broker-Dealers, in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of any Exchange Securities by Participating Broker-Dealers consistent with the positions of the Staff recited in Section 4(a) above. The Company and the Guarantor further agree that Participating Broker-Dealers shall be authorized to deliver such Prospectus (or, to the extent permitted by law, make available) during such period in connection with the resales contemplated by this Section 4.
(c) The Initial Purchasers shall have no liability to the Company, the Guarantor or any Holder with respect to any request that they may make pursuant to Section 4(b) hereof.
5. . (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser and each Holder, their respective affiliates, directors and officers and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with defending or investigating any such action or claim) caused by (1) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not
Indemnification and Contribution
 
misleading, or (2) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus, any Free Writing Prospectus or any "issuer information" ("") filed or required to be filed pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act, or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission in any such document in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Initial Purchaser or information relating to any Holder furnished to the Company in writing through the Representatives or any Holder respectively, expressly for use therein.
Issuer Information
(b) Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Guarantor, the Initial Purchasers and the other selling Holders, the directors of the Company and the Guarantor, each officer of the Company and the Guarantor who signed the Registration Statement, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, the Guarantor, any Initial Purchaser and any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement, any Prospectus and any Free Writing Prospectus.
(c) If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be instituted involving any Person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such Person (the "") shall promptly notify the Person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the "") in writing and the Indemnifying Person, upon request of the Indemnified Person, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 that the Indemnifying Person may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel related to such proceeding. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; or (ii) the named parties to any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in respect of the legal expenses of any indemnified party in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Any such separate firm (x) for any Initial Purchaser, its
Indemnified Person
Indemnifying Person
 
affiliates, directors and officers and any control Persons of such Initial Purchaser shall be designated in writing by Morgan Stanley and J.P. Morgan, (y) for any Holder, its directors and officers and any control Persons of such Holder shall be designated in writing by the Majority Holders and (z) in all other cases shall be designated in writing by the Company. The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (A) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (B) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
(d) If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company from the offering of the Securities and the Exchange Securities, on the one hand, and by the Holders from receiving Securities or Exchange Securities registered under the Securities Act, on the other hand, or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Holders and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
(e) The Company and the Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5 were determined by allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in
pro
rata
 
paragraph (d) above. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, in no event shall a Holder be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities or Exchange Securities sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Holders' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 5 are several and not joint.
(f) The remedies provided for in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies that may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
(g) The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 5 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers or any Holder or any Person controlling any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or by or on behalf of the Company or the Guarantor or the officers or directors of or any Person controlling the Company or the Guarantor, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Securities and (iv) any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
6. .
General
(a) The Company and the Guarantor represent, warrant and agree that neither the Company nor the Guarantor has entered into, or on or after the date of this Agreement will enter into, any agreement that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements.
(b) The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent; that no amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent to any departure from the provisions of Section 5 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registrable Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder. Any amendments, modifications, supplements, waivers or consents pursuant to this Section 6(b) shall be by a writing executed by each of the parties hereto. Each Holder of Registrable Securities outstanding at the time of any such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or
Amendments and Waivers.
provided
 
consent thereafter shall be bound by any such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent effected pursuant to this Section 6(b), whether or not any notice, writing or marking indicating such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent appears on the Registrable Securities or is delivered to such Holder. Each Holder may waive compliance with respect to any obligation of the Company or the Guarantor under this Agreement as it may apply or be enforced by such particular Holder.
(c) All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (i) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c), which address initially is, with respect to the Initial Purchasers, the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement; (ii) if to the Company and the Guarantor, initially at the applicable address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c); and (iii) to such other persons at their respective addresses as provided in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(c). All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; three Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
Notices.
(d) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof. The Initial Purchasers (in their capacity as Initial Purchasers) shall have no liability or obligation to the Company or the Guarantor with respect to any failure by a Holder to comply with, or any breach by any Holder of, any of the obligations of such Holder under this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns.
provided
(e) Each Holder shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company and the Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of other Holders hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiaries.
(f) This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
 
(g) The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, are not a part of this Agreement and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.
(h) This Agreement, and any claim, controversy or dispute arising under or related to this Agreement, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
(i) This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all oral statements and prior writings with respect thereto. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction contained in this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable or against public policy, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions contained herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated. The Company, the Guarantor and the Initial Purchasers shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, void or unenforceable provisions.
Entire Agreement; Severability.
7. . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, it is acknowledged that the Guarantees will terminate concurrently with the completion of the Separation and, accordingly, it is agreed that, concurrently with the termination of the Guarantees, all obligations of the Guarantor under this Agreement shall terminate and all references to the Guarantor in this Agreement shall be deemed to be eliminated.
Termination of Obligations of Guarantor
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
Confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC,
For themselves and on behalf of the
several Initial Purchasers
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
- Marathon Oil Corporation (NYSE:MRO) (Marathon) today announced that Marathon Petroleum Corporation (MPC), a subsidiary of Marathon that is expected to hold its downstream operations and that Marathon intends to spin off to its stockholders later in 2011, has commenced a private placement of Senior Notes due 2016, Senior Notes due 2021 and Senior Notes due 2041 (collectively, the "Notes"). The private placement, which is subject to market and other conditions, will be made within the United States only to "qualified institutional buyers" as defined in Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and outside the United States only to non-U.S. investors under Regulation S of the Securities Act.
HOUSTON, Jan. 27, 2011
MPC intends to use the net proceeds from the proposed private placement to repay intercompany indebtedness to Marathon and certain of its other subsidiaries, to pay a special distribution to Marathon and for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
The Notes will not be registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This announcement does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the Notes, nor shall there be any offer, solicitation or sale of the Notes in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful, including prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
This release contains forward-looking statements with respect to the proposed private placement and the potential spin-off of MPC. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release. The forward-looking statements are made using various underlying assumptions and are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks, including market and other conditions, the risk that the spin-off may not be completed as anticipated or at all, delays or other difficulties in completing the spin-off, disruptions experienced with customers and suppliers and the inability to retain key personnel. If one or more of these risks materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected, projected or implied. The spin-off is subject to, among other things, board approval, receipt of a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS, a registration statement declared effective by the SEC and completion of financing. In accordance with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Marathon has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and subsequent Forms 10-Q and 8-K, cautionary language identifying other important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
Media Relations Contacts:
Lee Warren: 713-296-4103
John Porretto: 713-296-4102
Investor Relations Contacts:
Howard Thill: 713-296-4140
Chris Phillips: 713-296-3213


