FILE:PH/PH-8K-20071213164934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
(e)
Return on Net Asset ("RONA") Bonus Awards in Lieu of Certain Executive Perquisites
On December 7, 2007, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") of Parker-Hannifin Corporation (the "Corporation") approved the elimination of certain executive perquisites effective January 1, 2008. The executive perquisites to be eliminated consist of home security; financial planning, tax preparation and estate planning; tax gross-ups on spousal travel; monthly dues and related tax gross-ups on private clubs; and health and fitness club dues. In lieu of those executive perquisites, the Compensation Committee awarded additional RONA Bonus shares to each of its executive officers, including the additional RONA Bonus shares awarded to the named executive officers listed below:
 
These additional RONA Bonuses will be paid in one lump sum in August for each of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Vice President and the Executive Vice President  Sales, Marketing and Operations Support. For all other executive officers, these additional RONA Bonuses will be paid in two installments in April and August. Each installment is based on actual year-to-date results. The Corporation will hold back 25% of the year-to-date calculation from the April installment to ensure that it has the flexibility to reconcile the August payment to final year-end results. All payments for these additional RONA Bonuses are made in cash. The additional RONA Bonuses will be calculated at each payment date as follows:
 
 
 
 
These additional RONA Bonuses will be excluded from benefit calculations under the Corporation's Executive Long-Term Disability Plan, the Corporation's Consolidated Pension Plan, the Corporation's Pension Restoration Plan, the Corporation's Supplemental Executive Retirement Benefits Program and the Corporation's Change in Control Severance Agreements. These additional RONA Bonuses will not be eligible for deferral under the Corporation's Retirement Savings Plan, the Corporation's Savings Restoration Plan and the Corporation's Executive Deferral Plan.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 13, 2007


