FILE:PH/PH-8K-20070117094617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure"
On January 17, 2007, Parker-Hannifin Corporation issued a press release and presented a Webcast announcing earnings for the quarter ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. A copy of the Webcast presentation is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 17, 2007

For Release: Immediately
 
PH  NYSE
Stock Symbol:
Parker Hannifin Earnings Per Share Up 53 Percent on Strong Sales in Record Second Quarter
CLEVELAND, January 17, 2007  Parker Hannifin Corporation (NYSE: PH), the world leader in motion and control technologies, today reported second quarter fiscal year 2007 results. The company set new second quarter records for sales and income from continuing operations, both of which increased by double digit percentages from a year ago.
Sales for the second quarter of fiscal-year 2007 were $2.5 billion, up 16.4 percent, as compared to sales of $2.2 billion from the same period last year. Income from continuing operations in the second quarter of fiscal 2007, including the realization of a 9 cent per diluted share benefit from the December renewal of the Federal Tax Credit for Increasing Research Activities, was $1.64 per diluted share, an increase of 53.3 percent over the $1.07 per diluted share posted in the same period a year ago.
"Led by exceptional performance in our Industrial International and Aerospace segments, we were able to deliver another record second quarter, and we remain solidly on track for another outstanding year in fiscal 2007," said Chairman, CEO and President Don Washkewicz. "The
 
record results we are delivering, quarter after quarter, are being driven by our employees' ongoing execution of our Win Strategy."
Second Quarter Segment Results
In the North American Industrial segment, second quarter operating income increased 2.8 percent over the prior year to $133.9 million, on sales of $959.7 million.
In the International Industrial segment, second quarter operating income increased 78.9 percent over the prior year to $121.8 million, on sales of $922.0 million.
In the Aerospace segment, second quarter operating income increased 43.2 percent over the prior year to $67.8 million, on sales of $402.0 million.
In the Climate & Industrial Controls segment, second quarter operating income decreased 29.8 percent over the prior year to $7.0 million, on sales of $227.4 million.
Total operating margin across all segments in the second quarter was 13.2 percent versus 11.8 percent in the same period a year ago.
Fiscal Year to Date Results
For the first six months of fiscal-year 2007, sales were $5.1 billion, up 18.5 percent, as compared to sales of $4.3 billion from the same period last year. Income from continuing operations for the first six months of fiscal 2007 was $3.39 per diluted share, up 49.3 percent from the $2.27 per diluted share reported in the same period in the prior year.
 
Cash flow from operations for the first six months of fiscal year 2007 reached $307.6 million. "The level of cash generation allows us to be flexible in terms of strategic acquisitions, share repurchases, capital investments and dividends," said Washkewicz. "In the second quarter, cash was used to repurchase $197 million of stock, bringing the fiscal 2007 year-to-date repurchase amount to $393 million. These expenditures are in addition to the discretionary contributions of $111 million made to the employees' pension funds in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007."
Highlights
"Our 16.4 percent sales growth in the quarter significantly exceeded our growth goal of 10 percent," said Washkewicz. "The growth was profitable and balanced, with 6.4 percent derived organically, 6.4 percent via acquisitions and 3.6 percent from the favorable impact of foreign currency."
"While we are very pleased with our overall results this quarter, special mention must be made of our International Industrial and Aerospace segments," continued Washkewicz. "In the International segment sales grew by 36 percent and operating income increased by nearly 80 percent. Our Aerospace business also delivered excellent results this quarter. Revenues grew by 16 percent and operating income by 43 percent. We expect continued strength in this segment of our business."
"This is especially good news as International Industrial and Aerospace now represent more than half of our total revenues," said Washkewicz. "Particularly diligent execution of the Win Strategy in Europe is enabling us to achieve margins comparable to our North American business."
 
Outlook
As a result of the continued strong results, the company increased its guidance for fiscal year 2007 income from continuing operations from $6.05 to $6.45 per diluted share to $6.35 to $6.75 per diluted share.
In addition to this information, Parker advises shareholders to note order trends, for which the company makes a disclosure several business days after the conclusion of each month. This information is available on the company's investor information web site, at www.phstock.com.
NOTICE OF CONFERENCE CALL: Parker Hannifin's conference call and slide presentation to discuss its fiscal second-quarter results is available to all interested parties via live webcast today at 10:00 a.m. ET, on the company's investor information web site, www.phstock.com. To access the call, click on the "Live Webcast" link. From this link, users also may complete a pre-call system test and register for e-mail notification of future events and information available from Parker.
With annual sales exceeding $9 billion, Parker Hannifin is the world's leading diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, providing precision-engineered solutions for a wide variety of commercial, mobile, industrial and aerospace markets. The company employs more than 57,000 people in 43 countries around the world. Parker has increased its annual dividends paid to shareholders for 50 consecutive years, among the top five longest-running dividend-increase records in the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit the company's web site at www.parker.com, or its investor information site at .
www.phstock.com
Forward-looking statements contained in this document and other written reports and oral statements are made based on known events and circumstances at the time of release, and as such, are subject in the future to unforeseen uncertainties and risks. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, events or developments are forward-looking statements. It is possible that the Company's future performance and earnings projections of the Company may differ materially from current expectations, depending on economic conditions within both its industrial and aerospace markets, and the Company's ability to achieve and maintain anticipated benefits associated with announced realignment activities, strategic initiatives to improve operating margins and growth and innovation initiatives. A change in economic conditions in individual markets may have a particularly volatile effect on segment performance. Among other factors which may affect future performance are: changes in business relationships with and purchases by or from major customers or suppliers, including delays or cancellations in shipments, or significant changes in financial condition, uncertainties surrounding timing, successful completion or integration of acquisitions, threats associated with and efforts to combat terrorism, competitive market conditions and resulting effects on sales and pricing, increases in raw material costs that cannot be recovered in product pricing, the Company's ability to manage costs related to insurance and employee retirement and health care benefits, and global economic factors, including manufacturing activity, air travel trends, currency exchange rates, difficulties entering new markets and general economic conditions such as interest rates. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or publicly revise these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date of this Report.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION - DECEMBER 31, 2006
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
 
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION - DECEMBER 31, 2006
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(Unaudited)
 
Note: Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
 



