FILE:PH/PH-8K-20070423091032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Changes in Registrant.s Certifying Accountant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Changes in Registrant.s Certifying Accountant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On April 17, 2007, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Parker-Hannifin Corporation (the "") dismissed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ("") as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm effective upon completion of its services related to the audit of the Company's consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2007.
Company
PwC
The reports of PwC on the Company's consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005 did not contain an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion, and were not qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principle.
During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005 and through April 17, 2007, there were no disagreements (as that term is defined in Item 304(a)(1)(iv) of Regulation S-K and the related instructions to Item 304 of Regulation S-K) with PwC on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure, which disagreements, if not resolved to the satisfaction of PwC, would have caused PwC to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreements in its reports on the consolidated financial statements for such years. In addition, during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005 and through April 17, 2007, there were no reportable events (as defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K).
The Company has provided PwC with a copy of the above disclosures, and has requested that PwC furnish the Company with a letter addressed to the Securities and Exchange Commission stating whether or not PwC agrees with the above statements and, if not, stating the respects in which it does not agree. A copy of PwC's letter dated April 20, 2007 is attached as Exhibit 16.1 to this Form 8-K.
On April 17, 2007, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP ("") as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005 and through April 17, 2007, neither the Company nor anyone on its behalf has consulted with D&T regarding: (i) the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed, or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on the Company's financial statements, and neither a written report was provided to the Company nor oral advice was provided that D&T concluded was an important factor considered by the Company in reaching a decision as to any accounting, auditing or financial reporting issue; or (ii) any matter that was either the subject of a disagreement (as that term is defined in Item 304(a)(1)(iv) of Regulation S-K and the related instructions to Item 304 of Regulation S-K) or a reportable event (as that term is defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K).
D&T
As of the date of this Form 8-K, D&T has completed its attest client acceptance procedures and is in the process of completing certain non-audit assignments for the Company that could affect its independence. The Company expects D&T to complete those assignments and formally accept its engagement on or prior to May 31, 2007. Upon D&T's formal acceptance of the engagement, the Company will file a Form 8-K with the specific date of the engagement and an update of the disclosures required by Item 304(a)(2) of Regulation S-K through the date of the engagement.
(d) Exhibits.
On April 23, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing the approval of the change in its independent registered public accounting firm described in this Form 8-K. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 23, 2007
 

 
 
April 20, 2007
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, DC 20549
Commissioners:
We have read the statements made by Parker Hannifin Corporation (copy attached), which we understand will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to Item 4.01 of Form 8-K, as part of the Form 8-K of Parker Hannifin Corporation dated April 17, 2007. We agree with the statements concerning our Firm in such Form 8-K.
 
 
On April 17, 2007, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Parker-Hannifin Corporation (the "") dismissed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ("PwC") as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm effective upon completion of its services related to the audit of the Company's consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2007.
Company
The reports of PwC on the Company's consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005 did not contain an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion, and were not qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principle.
During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005 and through April 17, 2007, there were no disagreements (as that term is defined in Item304(a)(l)(iv) of Regulation S-K and the related instructions to Item 304 of Regulation S-K) with PwC on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure, which disagreements, if not resolved to the satisfaction of PwC, would have caused PwC to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreements in its reports on the consolidated financial statements for such years. In addition, during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005 and through April 17, 2007, there were no reportable events (as defined in Item 304(a)(l)(v) of Regulation S-K).
The Company has provided PwC with a copy of the above disclosures, and has requested that PwC furnish the Company with a letter addressed to the Securities and Exchange Commission stating whether or not PwC agrees with the above statements and, if not, stating the respects in which it does not agree. A copy of PwC's letter dated April 20,2007 is attached as Exhibit 16.1 to this Form 8-K.
On April 17, 2007, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP ("") as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005 and through April 17, 2007, neither the Company nor anyone on its behalf has consulted with D&T regarding: (i) the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed, or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on the Company's financial statements, and neither a written report was provided to the Company nor oral advice was provided that D&T concluded was an important factor considered by the Company in reaching a decision as to any accounting, auditing or financial reporting issue; or (ii) any matter that was either the subject of a disagreement (as that term is defined in Item 304(a)(l)(iv) of Regulation S-K and the related instructions to Item 304 of Regulation S-K) or a reportable event (as that term is defined in Item 304(a)(l)(v) of Regulation S-K).
D&T
As of the date of this Form 8-K, D&T has completed its attest client acceptance procedures and is in the process of completing certain non-audit assignments for the Company that could affect its independence. The Company expects D&T to complete those assignments and formally accept its engagement on or prior to May 31, 2007. Upon D&T's formal acceptance of the engagement, the Company will file a Form 8-K with the specific date of the engagement and an update of the disclosures required by Item 304(a)(2) of Regulation S-K through the date of the engagement.

Exhibit 99.1
 
Parker Board of Directors' Appoints New Audit Firm
CLEVELAND, April 23, 2007  Parker Hannifin Corporation (NYSE: PH), the world leader in motion and control technologies, today announced that the Audit Committee of its Board of Directors has appointed Deloitte & Touche as Parker's independent registered public accounting firm for the company's fiscal year beginning July 1, 2007. Parker's current independent registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, will complete its services related to the audit of Parker's consolidated financial statements for the current fiscal year which ends June 30, 2007.
Parker's Board emphasized that the change was not the result of any disagreement between Parker and PricewaterhouseCoopers on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure or auditing scope or procedure. "The Board's decision to make this change comes only after a rigorous 8-month process to determine the best combination of value, quality, reach, process and customer service for Parker going forward," said Timothy K. Pistell, Parker Executive Vice President, Finance & Administration & Chief Financial Officer. "PricewaterhouseCoopers has served Parker and its shareholders admirably for many years, and adapted well to the continual, global growth of our company. We sincerely thank the many individuals within the firm that have provided Parker with their
guidance and expertise over that time. Their consistent level of professionalism gives us comfort that the upcoming transition period will be a smooth and orderly one." Parker expects to continue a business relationship with PricewaterhouseCoopers on certain non-audit related finance and accounting activities.
With annual sales exceeding $9 billion, Parker Hannifin is the world's leading diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, providing precision-engineered solutions for a wide variety of commercial, mobile, industrial and aerospace markets. The company employs more than 57,000 people in 43 countries around the world. Parker has increased its annual dividends paid to shareholders for 50 consecutive years, among the top five longest-running dividend-increase records in the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit the company's web site at http://www.parker.com, or its investor information site at .
http://www.phstock.com


