FILE:PH/PH-8K-20080129152437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parker-Hannifin Corporation is filing this Amendment No. 2 to its Current Report on Form 8-K originally filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 21, 2007 and subsequently amended and restated in its entirety by Amendment No. 1 to Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 5, 2007 (the "Form 8-K") to change the effective date of John D. Myslenski's retirement as reflected in Item 5.02(b) below. This Amendment No. 2 amends and restates the Form 8-K in its entirety. Except for the change in Item 5.02(b) below, no other changes have been made to the Form 8-K.
 
(b) On August 15, 2007, John D. Myslenski, a named executive officer, notified Parker-Hannifin Corporation (the "Corporation") that he has decided to retire from his position as Executive Vice President  Sales, Marketing and Operations Support of the Corporation effective March 31, 2008. Mr. Myslenski has decided to change the effective date of his retirement to May 2, 2008.
(e)
Stock Option Awards with Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights to Executive Officers
On August 15, 2007, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") of the Corporation, pursuant to the Corporation's 2003 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, authorized a grant of stock options with tandem stock appreciation rights ("SARs") to each of its executive officers, including the named executive officers listed below:
 
The stock options with tandem SARs were granted using the form of grant letter attached hereto as which is incorporated herein by reference.
Exhibit 10.1
Bonus Awards Under the Corporation's Performance Bonus Plan
On August 15, 2007, the Compensation Committee approved the following annual and long-term bonus awards pursuant to the Corporation's Performance Bonus Plan which is incorporated herein by reference to :
Exhibit 10.2
Target Bonus Awards to Named Executive Officers
A 2008 target bonus award, an annual cash incentive based on the Corporation's free cash flow margin for fiscal year 2008, was awarded to certain executive officers, including the named executive officers listed below:
 
These target bonus awards were granted pursuant to the form of award letter attached hereto as which is incorporated herein by reference.
Exhibit 10.3
Long-Term Incentive ("LTI") Awards to Executive Officers
A target 2008-09-10 LTI award was awarded to each of the executive officers, including the named executive officers listed below:
 
These target LTI awards are based on the Corporation's revenue growth, earnings per share growth and return on invested capital during the three-year performance period as compared to the results of its peers for each of the foregoing performance measures. These awards were granted pursuant to the form of award letter attached hereto as which is incorporated herein by reference.
Exhibit 10.4
Return on Net Asset ("RONA") Bonus Awards to Certain Named Executive Officers
A RONA bonus award, an annual cash incentive based on the Corporation's fiscal year 2008 return on net assets, to the two named executive officers listed below:
 
These RONA awards were granted pursuant to the form of award letter attached hereto as which is incorporated herein by reference.
Exhibit 10.5
(d) Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 29, 2008
 
 


