FILE:PH/PH-8K-20080529140714.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                    
(216) 896-3000
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     Parker-Hannifin Corporation (the "Company") is filing herewith the following exhibits to its Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (File No. 333-143226):
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 29, 2008
 

Exhibit 1.1
May 28, 2008
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated 1585 Broadway New York, New York 10036
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 288 Greenwich Street New York, New York 10013
Goldman, Sachs & Co. 85 Broad Street New York, New York 10004
Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. 600 Steamboat Road Greenwich, Connecticut 06830
Banc of America Securities LLC One Bryant Park New York, New York 10036
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. 127 Public Square Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We refer to the Amended and Restated U.S. Distribution Agreement dated as of September 17, 2007 (the ""), by and among Parker-Hannifin Corporation, an Ohio corporation (the ""), and the Agents named therein, relating to the issue and sale from time to time by the Company of its Medium-Term Notes, Series A, due nine months or more from date of issue (the "").
Distribution Agreement
Company
Notes
     WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Distribution Agreement be amended to (1) provide for the issuance pursuant to the Distribution Agreement from and after the date hereof of up to $3,000,000,000 (or the equivalent thereof in one or more foreign currencies or composite currencies) aggregate initial public offering price of the Notes and (2) replace ABN AMRO Incorporated as an Agent under the Distribution Agreement with Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are
 
hereby acknowledged, the Company hereby agrees with each of you to amend the Distribution Agreement in the following respects:
     1. . The title of the Distribution Agreement is hereby amended, as of the date hereof, to read in its entirety as follows:
Amendment to Title
     2. . The Agent addressee ABN AMRO Incorporated is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
Amendment of Agent Addressee
"Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. 600 Steamboat Road Greenwich, Connecticut 06830"
     3. . The first paragraph of the Distribution Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
Amendment of First Paragraph
     "PARKER-HANNIFIN CORPORATION, an Ohio corporation (the ""), confirms its agreement (this "") with each of you with respect to the issue and sale from time to time by the Company from and after May 28, 2008 of up to $3,000,000,000 (or the equivalent thereof in one or more foreign currencies or composite currencies) aggregate initial public offering price of its Medium-Term Notes, Series A, due nine months or more from date of issue (the ""). The Notes will be issued under an Indenture, dated as of May 3, 1996 (the ""), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (as successor to National City Bank), as Trustee (the ""), and will have the maturities, interest rates, redemption provisions, if any, and other terms as set forth in supplements to the Basic Prospectus referred to below."
Company
Agreement
Notes
Indenture
Trustee
     4. . The second paragraph of the Distribution Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
Amendment of Second Paragraph
     "The Company hereby appoints Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC and KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. (individually, an and collectively, the ) as its exclusive agents, subject to , for the purpose of soliciting and receiving offers to purchase Notes from the Company by others and, on the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained, but subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, each Agent agrees to use reasonable efforts to solicit and receive offers to purchase Notes upon terms acceptable to the Company at such times and in such amounts as the Company shall from time to time
"Agent"
"Agents"
Section 11
 
specify. In addition, any Agent may also purchase Notes as principal pursuant to the terms of a terms agreement relating to such sale (a ) in accordance with the provisions of hereof."
"Terms Agreement"
Section 2(b)
     5. . The ninth paragraph of the Distribution Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
Amendment of Ninth Paragraph
     "All communications hereunder will be in writing and effective only on receipt, and, if sent to Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed and confirmed to Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated at 1585 Broadway, 2nd Floor, New York, New York 10036, Attention: Manager  Continuously Offered Products (telefax number: 212-761-0780), with a copy to l585 Broadway, New York, New York 10036, 36th floor, Attention: Investment Banking Information Center (telefax number: 212-761-0260), if sent to Citigroup Global Markets Inc., will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed and confirmed to Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Attention: Managing Director, Syndicate (telefax number: 212-816-7912), if sent to Goldman, Sachs & Co., will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed and confirmed to Goldman, Sachs & Co., 85 Broad Street, New York, New York 10004, Attention: Credit Department, Credit Control - Medium-Term Notes (telefax number: 212-357-8680), if sent to Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc., will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed and confirmed to Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc., 600 Steamboat Road, Greenwich, Connecticut 06830, Attention: Debt Capital Markets Syndicate (telefax number: 203-422-4534), if sent to Banc of America Securities LLC, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed and confirmed to Banc of America Securities LLC at 40 West 57 Street, 27th Floor, New York, New York 10019, Attention: High Grade Debt Capital Markets Transaction Management (telefax number: 212-901-7881), and if sent to KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed and confirmed to KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., 127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Attention: Ann Schiavone  Debt Capital Markets (telefax number: 216-433-3801) or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed and confirmed to the Company at 6035 Parkland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44124, Attention: Treasurer (telefax number: 216-481-4057)."
th
     6. . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Applicable Law
     7. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original but all of which when taken together shall constitute but one agreement.
Counterparts
     8. . Except as specifically amended or modified hereby, the Distribution Agreement shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the provisions thereof. All references in any other agreement or document to the Distribution Agreement shall, on and after the date hereof, be deemed to refer to the Distribution Agreement as amended hereby. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of the Distribution Agreement as in effect immediately preceding the amendments provided
Amendment
 
herein shall apply with respect to any Notes issued and sold thereunder prior to the date hereof.
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement between the Company and you.
 

Exhibit 5.1
Parker-Hannifin Corporation 6035 Parkland Boulevard Cleveland, Ohio 44124
     Re:
Up to $3,000,000,000 Aggregate Principal Amount of Medium-Term Notes, Series A
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We are acting as counsel for Parker-Hannifin Corporation, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the authorization of the sale from time to time, on a delayed basis, by the Company of up to $3,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Medium-Term Notes, Series A, of the Company (the "Notes"), pursuant to the Amended and Restated U.S. Distribution Agreement, dated as of September 17, 2007, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated U.S. Distribution Agreement, dated as of May 28, 2008, by and among the Company and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., ABN AMRO Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC and KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., as agents (as amended, the "Distribution Agreement"). The Notes will be issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of May 3, 1996 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified through the date hereof, the "Indenture"), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (as successor to National City Bank), as Trustee (the "Trustee"). The Notes may be offered and sold from time to time pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act").
     In connection with the opinion expressed herein, we have examined such documents, records and matters of law, as we have deemed relevant or necessary for purposes of this opinion. Based on the foregoing, and subject to the further limitations, qualifications and assumptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that the Notes, when they are executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and issued and delivered against payment therefor in accordance with the terms of the Distribution Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company.
     For purposes of the opinion expressed herein, we have assumed that (i) the definitive terms of the Notes will be established in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, (ii) the Trustee has authorized, executed and delivered the Indenture and the Indenture is the valid, binding and enforceable obligation of the Trustee, and (iii) the resolutions authorizing the issuance, offer and sale of the Notes will be in full force and effect at all times at which any Notes are offered or sold by the Company, and that the Company will take no action inconsistent with such resolutions.
     The opinion expressed herein is limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent transfer and fraudulent conveyance, voidable preference, moratorium or other similar laws and related regulations and judicial doctrines from time to time in effect relating to or affecting creditors'
 
JONES DAY
Parker-Hannifin Corporation May 28, 2008 Page 2 of 2
rights generally, and by general equitable principles and public policy considerations, whether such principles and considerations are considered in a proceeding at law or at equity.
     The opinion expressed herein is limited to the laws of the State of New York and the laws of the State of Ohio, in each case as currently in effect, and we express no opinion as to the effect of the laws of any other jurisdiction.
     We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as Exhibit 5.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated the date hereof filed by the Company and incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement on Form S-3, as amended (Reg. No. 333-143226) (the "Registration Statement"), filed by the Company to effect the registration of the Notes under the Securities Act and to the reference to Jones Day under the caption "Validity of the Notes" in the prospectus constituting a part of such Registration Statement. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated thereunder.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Jones Day


