FILE:PH/PH-8K-20090120091002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure"
On January 20, 2009, Parker-Hannifin Corporation issued a press release and presented a Webcast announcing earnings for the quarter ended December 31, 2008. The press release contains references to sales growth excluding the effects of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates. The effects of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates are removed to allow investors and the company to meaningfully evaluate changes in sales on a comparable basis from period to period. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. A copy of the Webcast presentation is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 20, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
 
Parker Reports Second Quarter Sales, Net Income and Earnings per Share
 
 Parker Hannifin Corporation (NYSE: PH), the world leader in motion and control technologies, today reported results for its fiscal 2009 second quarter ending December 31, 2008. Fiscal 2009 second quarter sales were $2.7 billion, a decline of 5.0 percent from $2.8 billion in the same quarter a year ago. Net income declined 26.7 percent to $155.4 million from $211.9 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2008. Earnings per diluted share declined 22.0 percent to 96 cents compared with $1.23 in last year's second quarter. Cash flow from operations for the first six months of fiscal 2009 was $444.5 million, or 7.7 percent of sales.
CLEVELAND, January 20, 2009
"Current quarter results reflect the fact that the global recession has deepened and widened in recent months and creates some uncertainty for the remainder of our fiscal year and throughout calendar 2009," said Chairman, CEO and President Don Washkewicz. "Although we are positioned to fare much better in this recession than in the past, current market conditions are unprecedented and have required us to lower our expectations for the year and reduce costs across our operations. As a direct result of the actions we have taken under the Win Strategy during the past seven years, including our ability to adjust and manage inventory on a real-time basis, Parker is better prepared to adapt to changing market circumstances and weather the challenges ahead."
 
Segment Results
In the Industrial North America segment, second-quarter sales increased slightly to $993.0 million, and operating income declined 24.0 percent to $107.6 million, compared with the same period a year ago.
In the Industrial International segment, second-quarter sales declined 11.5 percent to $1.0 billion, and operating income declined 34.3 percent to $115.1 million, compared with the same period a year ago.
In the Aerospace segment, second-quarter sales increased 10.0 percent to $473.7 million, and operating income increased 34.2 percent to $69.7 million, compared with the same period a year ago.
In the Climate & Industrial Controls segment, second-quarter sales declined 21.8 percent to $179.2 million, and the segment recorded an operating loss of $12.8 million, compared with an operating profit of $5.4 million in the same period a year ago.
Orders
In addition to financial results, Parker also reported a decline of 20 percent in total orders for the quarter ending December 31, 2008, compared with the same quarter a year ago. Parker reported the following orders by operating segment:
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
For fiscal 2009, the company revised guidance for earnings from continuing operations to the range of $3.85 to $4.25 per diluted share. Previous guidance for earnings from continuing operations was $5.35 to $5.75 per diluted share.
"While the outlook holds many challenges, Parker has a seasoned management team that has experience managing through a downturn," added Washkewicz. "Workforce and expense reductions have been implemented throughout the company and contingency plans are in place should further actions become necessary. In short, we are prepared to adjust our costs appropriately to reflect changing demand levels. At the same time, we will stay vigilantly focused on long-term growth and are confident that we will emerge in an even stronger position as demand in our end markets improves."
: Parker Hannifin's conference call and slide presentation to discuss its fiscal second-quarter results are available to all interested parties via live webcast today at 10:00 a.m. ET, on the company's investor information web site, http://www.phstock.com. To access the call, click on the "Live Webcast" link. From this link, users also may complete a pre-call system test and register for e-mail notification of future events and information available from Parker.
NOTICE OF CONFERENCE CALL
With annual sales exceeding $12 billion, Parker Hannifin is the world's leading diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, providing precision-engineered solutions for a wide variety of mobile, industrial and aerospace markets. The company employs approximately 62,000 people in 48 countries around the world. Parker has increased its annual dividends paid to shareholders for 52 consecutive years, among the top five longest-running dividend-increase records in the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit the company's web site at http://www.parker.com, or its investor information site at http://www.phstock.com.
Notes on Orders
Orders provide near-term perspective on the company's outlook, particularly when viewed in the context of prior and future quarterly order rates. However, orders are not in themselves an indication of future performance. All comparisons are at constant currency exchange rates, with the prior year restated to the current-year rates. All exclude acquisitions until they can be reflected in both the numerator and denominator. Aerospace comparisons are rolling 12-month average computations. The Total Parker orders number is derived from a weighted average of the year-over-year quarterly percent change in orders for the Industrial North America, Industrial International, and Climate and Industrial Controls segments, and the year-over-year 12-month rolling average of orders in the Aerospace segment.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are made based on known events and circumstances at the time of release, and as such, are subject in the future to unforeseen uncertainties and risks. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, events or developments are forward-looking statements. It is possible that the future performance and earnings projections of the company and individual segments may differ materially from current expectations, depending on economic conditions within its mobile, industrial and aerospace markets, and the company's ability to maintain and achieve anticipated benefits associated with announced realignment activities, strategic initiatives to improve operating margins, actions taken to combat the effects of the current recession, and growth, innovation and global diversification initiatives. A change in economic conditions in individual markets may have a particularly volatile effect on segment results. Among the other factors which may affect future performance are: changes in business relationships with and purchases by or from major customers or suppliers, including delays or cancellations in shipments or significant changes in financial condition; uncertainties surrounding timing, successful completion or integration of acquisitions; threats associated with and efforts to combat terrorism; uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of outstanding legal proceedings; competitive market conditions and resulting effects on sales and pricing; increases in raw material costs that cannot be recovered in product pricing; the company's ability to manage costs related to employee retirement and health care benefits and insurance; and global economic factors, including manufacturing activity, air travel trends, currency exchange rates, difficulties entering new markets and general economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates and credit availability. The company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure, and undertakes no obligation to update them.
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION - DECEMBER 31, 2008
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION - DECEMBER 31, 2008
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(Unaudited)
 



