FILE:PH/PH-8K-20091020092735.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure"
On October 20, 2009, Parker-Hannifin Corporation issued a press release and presented a Webcast announcing earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. The press release contains references to sales growth excluding the effects of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates. The effects of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates are removed to allow investors and the company to meaningfully evaluate changes in sales on a comparable basis from period to period. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. A copy of the Webcast presentation is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 20, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
 
Stock Symbol: PH  NYSE
Parker Reports Fiscal 2010 First Quarter Sales, Net Income and Earnings per Share
 
 Parker Hannifin Corporation (NYSE: PH), the global leader in motion and control technologies, today reported results for the fiscal 2010 first quarter ending September 30, 2009. Fiscal 2010 first quarter sales were $2.2 billion, a decline of 27 percent from $3.1 billion in the first quarter a year ago. Fiscal 2010 first quarter net income declined 71 percent to $73.5 million, from a record $250.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Earnings per diluted share declined 70 percent to $0.45, compared with $1.50 in the previous period. Cash flow from operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 was $260.1 million, or 11.6 percent of sales, compared with $307.3 million, or 10.0 percent of sales in the prior year period.
CLEVELAND, October 20, 2009
"Our results this quarter continue to reflect the impact of the global recession on our business, coupled with the fact that we are comparing current results with the record performance we achieved in the first quarter a year ago." said Chairman, CEO and President Don Washkewicz. "Our sales declined 28 percent organically in the quarter, while foreign currency translation negatively impacted sales by 1 percent and acquisitions contributed 2 percent to sales. We were pleased to note that orders, although down year-over-year, have steadily improved sequentially from the levels we witnessed in the June quarter, and our actions to reduce costs have begun to have a positive effect on margins."
 
"The implementation of the Win Strategy throughout our operations has allowed us to perform much better in this down cycle than in previous recessions. We continue to take additional actions to reduce costs and generate strong cash flows. These actions have helped us attain an impressive decremental marginal return on sales of 30% during the quarter. Importantly, our operating cash flows as a percentage of sales remained strong at 11.6 percent, well above our targeted level of 10 percent. This strong cash performance has enabled us to pay down our outstanding debt by an additional $162 million in the quarter, and positions us well for growth when the recovery ultimately takes hold."
Segment Results
In the Industrial North America segment, first quarter sales declined 29.3 percent to $783.1 million, and operating income declined 52.5 percent to $76.2 million, compared with the same period a year ago.
In the Industrial International segment, first quarter sales declined 30.5 percent to $850.3 million, and operating income declined 69.5 percent to $61.8 million compared with the same period a year ago.
In the Aerospace segment, first quarter sales decreased 12.9 percent to $416.9 million, and operating income declined 22.0 percent to $53.1 million, compared with the same period a year ago.
In the Climate & Industrial Controls segment, first quarter sales declined 27.0 percent to $187.0 million, and segment operating income declined 32.3 percent to $10.5 million, compared with the same period a year ago.
Orders
In addition to financial results, Parker also reported a decline of 25 percent in total orders for the quarter ending September 30, 2009, compared with the same quarter a year ago. Parker reported the following orders by operating segment:
 
 
 
 
Outlook
For fiscal 2010, the company has increased its guidance for earnings from continuing operations to the range of $1.55 to $2.05 per diluted share.
Washkewicz added, "The major markets we serve present a mixed picture in terms of customer demand with some markets flattening out while others are beginning to show modest sequential improvement. While we do not believe we will see material changes in trends for the remainder of the calendar year 2009, we are cautiously optimistic that we are at the bottom of the cycle. Parker employees throughout the world continue to step up to the challenges and manage our company effectively through the downturn. Our priorities will remain unchanged as we progress through this fiscal year focused on managing for cash while simultaneously targeting strong operating margin performance."
: Parker Hannifin's conference call and slide presentation to discuss its fiscal 2010 first quarter results are available to all interested parties via live webcast today at 10:00 a.m. ET, on the company's investor information web site, http://www.phstock.com. To access the call, click on the "Live Webcast" link. From this link, users also may complete a pre-call system test and register for e-mail notification of future events and information available from Parker.
NOTICE OF CONFERENCE CALL
 
With annual sales exceeding $10 billion in fiscal year 2009, Parker Hannifin is the world's leading diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, providing precision-engineered solutions for a wide variety of mobile, industrial and aerospace markets. The company employs approximately 52,000 people in 48 countries around the world. Parker has increased its annual dividends paid to shareholders for 53 consecutive years, among the top five longest-running dividend-increase records in the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit the company's web site at http://www.parker.com, or its investor information site at http://www.phstock.com.
Notes on Orders
Orders provide near-term perspective on the company's outlook, particularly when viewed in the context of prior and future quarterly order rates. However, orders are not in themselves an indication of future performance. All comparisons are at constant currency exchange rates, with the prior year restated to the current-year rates. All exclude acquisitions until they can be reflected in both the numerator and denominator. Aerospace comparisons are rolling 12-month average computations. The total Parker orders number is derived from a weighted average of the year-over-year quarterly percent change in orders for the Industrial North America, Industrial International, and Climate and Industrial Controls segments, and the year-over-year 12-month rolling average of orders in the Aerospace segment.
Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are made based on known events and circumstances at the time of release, and as such, are subject in the future to unforeseen uncertainties and risks. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, events or developments are forward-looking statements. It is possible that the future performance and earnings projections of the company and individual segments may differ materially from current expectations, depending on economic conditions within its mobile, industrial and aerospace markets, and the company's ability to maintain and achieve anticipated benefits associated with announced realignment activities, strategic initiatives to improve operating margins, actions taken to combat the effects of the current recession, and growth, innovation and global diversification initiatives. A change in economic conditions in individual markets may have a particularly volatile effect on segment results. Among the other factors which may affect future performance are: changes in business relationships with and purchases by or from major customers, suppliers or distributors, including delays or cancellations in shipments, disputes regarding contract terms or significant changes in financial condition; uncertainties surrounding timing, successful completion or integration of acquisitions; threats associated with and efforts to combat terrorism; uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of outstanding legal proceedings, including the outcome of any appeals; competitive market conditions and resulting effects on sales and pricing; increases in raw material costs that cannot be recovered in product pricing; the company's ability to manage costs related to employee retirement and health care benefits and insurance; and global economic factors, including manufacturing activity, air travel trends, currency exchange rates, difficulties entering new markets and general economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates and credit availability. The company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure, and undertakes no obligation to update them.
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION - SEPTEMBER 30, 2009
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION - SEPTEMBER 30, 2009
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(Unaudited)



