FILE:PH/PH-8K-20101129150752.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) On November 22, 2010, Timothy K. Pistell, principal financial officer of Parker-Hannifin Corporation (the "Company"), notified the Company that he intends to retire. Mr. Pistell served as Executive Vice President  Finance & Administration and Chief Financial Officer of the Company at the time he notified the Company of his retirement. Mr. Pistell has agreed to remain with the Company until March 31, 2011 to assist with his successor's transition. Effective November 29, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Mr. Pistell to serve, during such transition period, as an executive officer of the Company with the title Executive Vice President.
(c) Effective November 29, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Jon A. Marten, 54, as Executive Vice President  Finance & Administration and Chief Financial Officer of the Company to succeed Mr. Pistell as the principal financial officer of the Company and to serve for a term of 11 months or until his respective successor is elected, except in the case of death, resignation or removal. Mr. Marten became an officer of the Company in August 2008 when he was elected Vice President and Controller. Mr. Marten will continue as Controller and principal accounting officer of the Company until his successor is elected. Mr. Marten was also an Assistant Controller of the Company from July 2007 to August 2008 and Vice President and Controller of the Aerospace Group from October 2004 to July 2007. Mr. Marten is not a party to any transaction described in Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 29, 2010


