FILE:PH/PH-8K-20100119093030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure"
On January 19, 2010, Parker-Hannifin Corporation issued a press release and presented a Webcast announcing earnings for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. The press release and the Webcast presentation contain references to sales growth excluding the effects of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates. The effects of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates are removed to allow investors and the company to meaningfully evaluate changes in sales on a comparable basis from period to period. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. A copy of the Webcast presentation is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 19, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
Stock Symbol: PH  NYSE
Parker Reports Fiscal 2010 Second Quarter Sales, Net Income and Earnings per Share
 
 
 
 Parker Hannifin Corporation (NYSE: PH), the global leader in motion and control technologies, today reported results for the fiscal 2010 second quarter ending December 31, 2009. Fiscal 2010 second quarter sales were $2.4 billion, an increase of 5.3 percent compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and a decline of 12.4 percent from $2.7 billion in the second quarter a year ago. Fiscal 2010 second quarter net income was $104.6 million, an increase of 42.3 percent compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and a decline of 32.7 percent compared with $155.4 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Fiscal 2010 second quarter earnings per diluted share of $0.64, increased 41.6 percent from the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and declined 33.1 percent compared with $0.96 in the second quarter a year ago. Cash flow from operations for the first six months of fiscal 2010 was $606.3 million, or 13.2 percent of sales, compared with $444.5 million, or 7.7 percent of sales in the same prior year period.
CLEVELAND, January 19, 2010
"This quarter's results largely reflect the execution of our Win Strategy including the benefits of actions we have taken to restructure our operations since the recession began." said Chairman, CEO and President Don Washkewicz. "Notably, our performance has improved significantly relative to the first quarter of the year.
 
Considering that our second quarter is typically our weakest, our margin performance this quarter was most impressive with decremental margins at just 10.6 percent. Total segment operating margins exceeded 10 percent at this low point in the cycle and were equal to last year. These are strong indicators that we are managing through this unprecedented downturn very effectively.
"Although the effects of the global recession continue to linger, we are encouraged to see Parker's order trends improve sequentially for the second consecutive quarter. Organic sales declined approximately 16 percent in the quarter, while foreign currency translation positively impacted sales by approximately 4 percent. Operating cash flow year to date of 13.2 percent, another critical measure of our performance, was well above our targeted level of 10 percent. Our strong cash performance and balance sheet management throughout the recession has enabled us to pay down our outstanding debt by approximately $1 billion in the past twelve months, bringing our current debt-to-debt equity ratio below 30 percent and further strengthening our balance sheet."
Segment Results
In the Industrial North America segment, second quarter sales declined 14.7 percent to $847.2 million, and operating income increased 6.3 percent to $114.4 million, compared with the same period a year ago.
In the Industrial International segment, second quarter sales declined 10.6 percent to $932.1 million, and operating income declined 28.2 percent to $82.6 million, compared with the same period a year ago.
In the Aerospace segment, second quarter sales declined 15.4 percent to $400.6 million, and operating income declined 41.1 percent to $41.0 million, compared with the same period a year ago.
In the Climate & Industrial Controls segment, second quarter sales declined 2.4 percent to $174.9 million, and operating income increased 147.9 percent to $6.1 million, compared with the same period a year ago.
 
Orders
In addition to financial results, Parker also reported a decline of 7 percent in total orders for the quarter ending December 31, 2009, compared with the same quarter a year ago. Parker reported the following orders by operating segment:
 
 
 
 
Outlook
For fiscal 2010, the company has increased its guidance for earnings from continuing operations by 44 percent to the range of $2.40 to $2.80 per diluted share.
Washkewicz added, "With our actions to drive strong margin and cash flow performance taking full effect, and what we believe to be the early signs of a recovery emerging, we are anticipating a strong second half to our fiscal year and have raised our guidance appropriately. Our priorities will remain unchanged as we progress through this fiscal year focused on executing the Win Strategy and managing for cash while simultaneously targeting strong margin performance. Parker's management remains proud of our worldwide team of employees who has made these results possible. As the recovery unfolds, Parker's leading market position, global scale and balance, end market breadth, and solid financial and operational fundamentals position us well for profitable growth."
: Parker Hannifin's conference call and slide presentation to discuss its fiscal 2010 second quarter results are available to all interested parties via live webcast today at 10:00 a.m.
NOTICE OF CONFERENCE CALL
 
ET, on the company's investor information web site, http://www.phstock.com. To access the call, click on the "Live Webcast" link. From this link, users also may complete a pre-call system test and register for e-mail notification of future events and information available from Parker. A replay of the conference call will also be available at http://www.phstock.com for one year after the call.
With annual sales exceeding $10 billion in fiscal year 2009, Parker Hannifin is the world's leading diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, providing precision-engineered solutions for a wide variety of mobile, industrial and aerospace markets. The company employs approximately 52,000 people in 48 countries around the world. Parker has increased its annual dividends paid to shareholders for 53 consecutive years, among the top five longest-running dividend-increase records in the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit the company's web site at http://www.parker.com, or its investor information web site at http://www.phstock.com.
Notes on Orders
Orders provide near-term perspective on the company's outlook, particularly when viewed in the context of prior and future quarterly order rates. However, orders are not in themselves an indication of future performance. All comparisons are at constant currency exchange rates, with the prior year restated to the current-year rates. All exclude acquisitions until they can be reflected in both the numerator and denominator. Aerospace comparisons are rolling 12-month average computations. The total Parker orders number is derived from a weighted average of the year-over-year quarterly percent change in orders for the Industrial North America, Industrial International, and Climate and Industrial Controls segments, and the year-over-year 12-month rolling average of orders for the Aerospace segment.
Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are made based on known events and circumstances at the time of release, and as such, are subject in the future to unforeseen uncertainties and risks. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, events or developments are forward-looking statements. It is possible that the future performance and earnings projections of the company and individual segments may differ materially from current expectations, depending on economic conditions within its mobile, industrial and aerospace markets, and the company's ability to maintain and achieve anticipated benefits associated with announced realignment activities, strategic initiatives to improve operating margins, actions taken to combat the effects of the current recession, and growth, innovation and global diversification initiatives. A change in economic conditions in individual markets may have a particularly volatile effect on segment results. Among the other factors which may affect future performance are: changes in business relationships with and purchases by or from major customers, suppliers or distributors, including delays or cancellations in shipments, disputes regarding contract terms or significant changes in financial condition; uncertainties surrounding timing, successful completion or integration of acquisitions; threats associated with and efforts to combat terrorism; uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of outstanding legal proceedings, including the outcome of any appeals; competitive market conditions and resulting effects on sales and pricing; increases in raw material costs that cannot be recovered in product pricing; the company's ability to manage costs related to employee retirement and health care benefits and insurance; and global economic factors, including manufacturing activity, air travel trends, currency exchange rates, difficulties entering new markets and general economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates and credit availability. The company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure, and undertakes no obligation to update them.
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION  DECEMBER 31, 2009
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION  DECEMBER 31, 2009
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(Unaudited)
 



