FILE:PH/PH-8K-20101019093233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure"
On October 19, 2010, Parker-Hannifin Corporation issued a press release and presented a Webcast announcing earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. The press release contains references to sales growth excluding the effects of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates and the effect of a discretionary pension plan contribution on cash flows from operating activities as a percent of sales. The effects on sales of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates and the effect on cash flows from operating activities as a percent of sales of a discretionary pension plan contribution are removed to allow investors and the company to meaningfully evaluate changes in sales and cash flows from operating activities as a percent of sales on a comparable basis from period to period. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. A copy of the Webcast presentation is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 19, 2010

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Parker Reports Fiscal 2011 First Quarter Sales, Net Income, and Record Quarterly Earnings per Share
- Net Income More Than Triples
- Company Increases Guidance for Fiscal 2011
- Cash Flow Remains Strong
- Order Rates Continue To Show Significant Increases
 Parker Hannifin Corporation (NYSE: PH), the global leader in motion and control technologies, today reported results for the fiscal 2011 first quarter ending September 30, 2010. Fiscal 2011 first quarter sales were $2.8 billion, an increase of 26.5 percent from $2.2 billion in the same quarter a year ago. Net income was $249.0 million compared with $74.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Earnings per diluted share for the quarter were $1.51, which is a quarterly record and compares with $0.45 in last year's first quarter. Cash flow from operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was $122.9 million, or 4.3 percent of sales, compared with cash flow from operations of $260.1 million, or 11.6 percent of sales in the prior year period. Fiscal 2011 first quarter cash flow from operations included a $200 million discretionary contribution to the company's pension plan. Excluding this discretionary contribution, cash flow from operations as a percent of sales was 11.4 percent for the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
CLEVELAND, October 19, 2010
"Demand levels continued to improve across many markets as reflected in a significant increase in sales for the first quarter," said Chairman, CEO and President Don Washkewicz. "Sales improved in every segment, with total sales increasing 27 percent organically, while foreign currency translation negatively impacted sales by 1 percent. Order rates also increased in all segments.
 
"We are particularly pleased with our ability to leverage improved top line performance into record level operating margins and earnings. Our total segment operating margin performance was at an all-time record level of 15.5 percent, led by record Industrial North America segment margins of 17.8 percent and record Industrial International segment margins of 16.8 percent. We also continued to deliver strong operating cash flow, which gave us the flexibility to make a discretionary contribution to our pension plan."
Segment Results
In the Industrial North America segment, first-quarter sales increased 36.0 percent to $1.1 billion, and operating income was $189.4 million compared with $76.2 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Industrial International segment, first-quarter sales increased 28.5 percent to $1.1 billion, and operating income was $183.8 million compared with $61.8 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Aerospace segment, first-quarter sales increased 4.8 percent to $436.7 million, and operating income was $43.8 million compared with $53.1 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Climate and Industrial Controls segment, first-quarter sales increased 25.5 percent to $234.7 million, and operating income was $21.6 million compared with $10.5 million in the same period a year ago.
Orders
Parker reported an increase of 29 percent in total orders for the quarter ending September 30, 2010, compared with the same quarter a year ago. The company reported the following orders by operating segment:
 
 
 
 
Outlook
For fiscal 2011, the company has increased guidance for earnings from continuing operations to the range of $5.20 to $5.80 per diluted share.
Washkewicz added, "First quarter performance has clearly demonstrated the company's ability to generate strong operating cash flow and strong incremental returns on increased revenues. This gives us confidence in our ability to deliver earnings per share in a higher range for fiscal year 2011. The focus of our employees will continue to be on executing the Win Strategy and our cash flow position affords us the flexibility to drive growth through investments in innovation, international expansion, acquisitions, as well as expansion of our global distribution and industrial retail channels. Thanks to the efforts of Parker's employees in all regions who are pursuing a consistent strategy, we are building momentum from a position of great strength."
: Parker Hannifin's conference call and slide presentation to discuss its fiscal 2011 first quarter results are available to all interested parties via live webcast today at 10:00 a.m. ET, on the company's investor information web site at . To access the call, click on the "Live Webcast" link. From this link, users also may complete a pre-call system test and register for e-mail notification of future events and information available from Parker. A replay of the conference call will also be available at for one year after the call.
NOTICE OF CONFERENCE CALL
www.phstock.com
www.phstock.com
 
With annual sales of $10 billion in fiscal year 2010, Parker Hannifin is the world's leading diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, providing precision-engineered solutions for a wide variety of mobile, industrial and aerospace markets. The company employs approximately 55,000 people in 46 countries around the world. Parker has increased its annual dividends paid to shareholders for 54 consecutive fiscal years, among the top five longest-running dividend-increase records in the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit the company's web site at , or its investor information web site at .
www.parker.com
www.phstock.com
Notes on Orders
Orders provide near-term perspective on the company's outlook, particularly when viewed in the context of prior and future quarterly order rates. However, orders are not in themselves an indication of future performance. All comparisons are at constant currency exchange rates, with the prior year restated to the current-year rates. All exclude acquisitions until they can be reflected in both the numerator and denominator. Aerospace comparisons are rolling 12-month average computations. The total Parker orders number is derived from a weighted average of the year-over-year quarterly percent change in orders for the Industrial North America, Industrial International, and Climate and Industrial Controls segments, and the year-over-year 12-month rolling average of orders for the Aerospace segment.
Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are made based on known events and circumstances at the time of release, and as such, are subject in the future to unforeseen uncertainties and risks. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, events or developments are forward-looking statements. It is possible that the future performance and earnings projections of the company and individual segments may differ materially from current expectations, depending on economic conditions within its mobile, industrial and aerospace markets, and the company's ability to maintain and achieve anticipated benefits associated with announced realignment activities, strategic initiatives to improve operating margins, actions taken to combat the effects of the current economic environment, and growth, innovation and global diversification initiatives. A change in economic conditions in individual markets may have a particularly volatile effect on segment results. Among other factors which may affect future performance are: changes in business relationships with and purchases by or from major customers, suppliers or distributors, including delays or cancellations in shipments, disputes regarding contract terms or significant changes in financial condition, and changes in contract cost and revenue estimates for new development programs; uncertainties surrounding timing, successful completion or integration of acquisitions; ability to realize anticipated costs savings from business realignment activities; threats associated with and efforts to combat terrorism; uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of outstanding legal proceedings, including the outcome of any appeals; competitive market conditions and resulting effects on sales and pricing; increases in raw material costs that cannot be recovered in product pricing; the company's ability to manage costs related to insurance and employee retirement and health care benefits; and global economic factors, including manufacturing activity, air travel trends, currency exchange rates, difficulties entering new markets and general economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates and credit availability. The company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure, and undertakes no obligation to update them unless otherwise required by law.
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION - SEPTEMBER 30, 2010
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(Unaudited)
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited)
 



