FILE:PH/PH-8K-20110120091717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure"
On January 20, 2011, Parker-Hannifin Corporation issued a press release and presented a Webcast announcing earnings for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. The press release contains references to sales growth excluding the effects of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates and the effect of a discretionary pension plan contribution on cash flows from operating activities as a percent of sales. The effects on sales of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates and the effect on cash flows from operating activities as a percent of sales of a discretionary pension plan contribution are removed to allow investors and the company to meaningfully evaluate changes in sales and cash flows from operating activities as a percent of sales on a comparable basis from period to period. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. A copy of the Webcast presentation is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 20, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
Record Fiscal 2011 Second Quarter Sales, Net Income, and Earnings per Share Announced by Parker
- Net Income More Than Doubles
- Order Rates Continue to Show Significant Increases
- Company Increases Guidance for Fiscal 2011
 Parker Hannifin Corporation (NYSE: PH), the global leader in motion and control technologies, today reported record results for the fiscal 2011 second quarter ending December 31, 2010. Fiscal 2011 second quarter sales were $2.9 billion, an increase of 21.7 percent from $2.4 billion in the same quarter a year ago. Net income was $231.8 million an increase of 120.9 percent from $105.0 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. Earnings per diluted share for the quarter were $1.39 compared with $0.64 in last year's second quarter. Cash flow from operations for the first six months of fiscal 2011 was $408.2 million, or 7.2 percent of sales, compared with cash flow from operations of $606.3 million, or 13.2 percent of sales in the prior year period. Cash flow from operations in the first six months of fiscal 2011 included a $200 million discretionary contribution to the company's pension plan. Excluding this discretionary contribution, cash flow from operations as a percent of sales was 10.7 percent for the first six months of fiscal 2011.
CLEVELAND, January 20, 2011
"Demand levels remain strong across many markets, resulting in a significant increase in sales for the second quarter and increased order levels relative to the prior year period," said Chairman, CEO and President Don Washkewicz. "We were able to deliver sales increases in every segment, as total organic sales increased 22 percent. Order rates also increased in all segments and we are particularly pleased to see demand levels recover in our aerospace segment."
 
"This was another quarter that demonstrated our ability to leverage our strong revenue performance into increased operating margins and earnings. Our total segment operating margin performance was 14.0 percent, led by Industrial North America segment margin of 15.2 percent and Industrial International segment margin of 14.6 percent."
Segment Results
In the Industrial North America segment, second quarter sales increased 23.4 percent to $1.0 billion, and operating income was $159.4 million compared with $114.4 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Industrial International segment, second quarter sales increased 23.1 percent to $1.1 billion, and operating income was $167.8 million compared with $82.6 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Aerospace segment, second quarter sales increased 14.7 percent to $459.6 million, and operating income was $63.6 million compared with $41.0 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Climate and Industrial Controls segment, second quarter sales increased 22.6 percent to $214.3 million, and operating income was $9.5 million compared with $6.1 million in the same period a year ago.
Orders
Parker reported an increase of 29 percent in total orders for the quarter ending December 31, 2010, compared with the same quarter a year ago. The company reported the following orders by operating segment:
 
 
 
 
Outlook
For fiscal 2011, the company has increased guidance for earnings from continuing operations to the range of $5.80 to $6.20 per diluted share.
Washkewicz added, "Our performance in the first half of this year has been very strong and puts us ahead of where we expected to be. Therefore, we are increasing our full year guidance for earnings per share in fiscal 2011. By executing the Win Strategy, our employees will continue to build from a position of great strength and we remain bullish about our prospects for growth and profitability in the coming years."
: Parker Hannifin's conference call and slide presentation to discuss its fiscal 2011 second quarter results are available to all interested parties via live webcast today at 10:00 a.m. ET, on the company's investor information web site at . To access the call, click on the "Live Webcast" link. From this link, users also may complete a pre-call system test and register for e-mail notification of future events and information available from Parker. A replay of the conference call will also be available at www.phstock.com for one year after the call.
NOTICE OF CONFERENCE CALL
www.phstock.com
With annual sales of $10 billion in fiscal year 2010, Parker Hannifin is the world's leading diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, providing precision-engineered solutions for a wide variety of mobile, industrial and aerospace markets. The company employs approximately 55,000 people in 46 countries around the world. Parker has increased its annual dividends paid to shareholders for 54 consecutive fiscal years, among the top five longest-running dividend-increase records in the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit the company's web site at , or its investor information web site at .
www.parker.com
www.phstock.com
 
Notes on Orders
Orders provide near-term perspective on the company's outlook, particularly when viewed in the context of prior and future quarterly order rates. However, orders are not in themselves an indication of future performance. All comparisons are at constant currency exchange rates, with the prior year restated to the current-year rates. All exclude acquisitions until they can be reflected in both the numerator and denominator. Aerospace comparisons are rolling 12-month average computations. The total Parker orders number is derived from a weighted average of the year-over-year quarterly percent change in orders for the Industrial North America, Industrial International, and Climate and Industrial Controls segments, and the year-over-year 12-month rolling average of orders for the Aerospace segment.
Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are made based on known events and circumstances at the time of release, and as such, are subject in the future to unforeseen uncertainties and risks. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, events or developments are forward-looking statements. It is possible that the future performance and earnings projections of the company, including its individual segments, may differ materially from current expectations, depending on economic conditions within its mobile, industrial and aerospace markets, and the company's ability to maintain and achieve anticipated benefits associated with announced realignment activities, strategic initiatives to improve operating margins, actions taken to combat the effects of the current economic environment, and growth, innovation and global diversification initiatives. A change in economic conditions in individual markets may have a particularly volatile effect on segment performance. Among other factors which may affect future performance are: changes in business relationships with and purchases by or from major customers, suppliers or distributors, including delays or cancellations in shipments, disputes regarding contract terms or significant changes in financial condition, and changes in contract cost and revenue estimates for new development programs; uncertainties surrounding timing, successful completion or integration of acquisitions; ability to realize anticipated costs savings from business realignment activities; threats associated with and efforts to combat terrorism; uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of outstanding legal proceedings, including the outcome of any appeals; competitive market conditions and resulting effects on sales and pricing; increases in raw material costs that cannot be recovered in product pricing; the company's ability to manage costs related to insurance and employee retirement and health care benefits; and global economic factors, including manufacturing activity, air travel trends, currency exchange rates, difficulties entering new markets and general economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates and credit availability. The company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure, and undertakes no obligation to update them unless otherwise required by law.
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION - DECEMBER 31, 2010
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION - DECEMBER 31, 2010
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(Unaudited)
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited)
 



