FILE:PH/PH-8K-20110802090644.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure"
On August 2, 2011, Parker-Hannifin Corporation issued a press release and presented a Webcast announcing earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2011. The press release contains references to sales growth excluding the effects of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates and the effect on cash flows from operating activities as a percent of sales of a discretionary pension plan contribution. The effects on sales of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates and the effect on cash flows from operating activities as a percent of sales of a discretionary pension plan contribution are removed to allow investors and the company to meaningfully evaluate changes in sales and cash flows from operating activities as a percent of sales on a comparable basis from period to period. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. A copy of the Webcast presentation is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 2, 2011

 
Parker Reports Year End Results with All-Time Record Sales, Net Income and Earnings per Share
- Fiscal 2011 Full Year Sales Reach All-Time Record of $12.3 billion
- Fiscal 2011 Full Year Diluted Earnings Per Share Reaches a Record $6.37
- Company Maintains Strong Cash Flow and Balance Sheet
- Issues Guidance for Record Earnings in Fiscal 2012
Parker Hannifin Corporation (NYSE: PH), the global leader in motion and control technologies, today reported all-time record results for the fiscal 2011 fourth quarter and year ended June 30, 2011. Fiscal 2011 sales were $12.3 billion, an increase of 23.5 percent from $10.0 billion in the prior year and surpassing the previous record achieved in fiscal 2008. Net income for the year was a record $1.1 billion, an increase of 90.0 percent compared with $556.4 million in fiscal 2010. Fiscal 2011 earnings per diluted share were a record at $6.37 compared with $3.40 in the previous year. Cash flow from operations for fiscal 2011 was $1.2 billion, or 9.5 percent of sales, compared with cash flow from operations of $1.2 billion, or 12.2 percent of sales in the prior year period. Cash flow from operations included discretionary contributions to the company's pension plan of $400 million in fiscal 2011 and $100 million in fiscal 2010. Excluding these discretionary contributions, cash flow as a percent of sales in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, was 12.7 percent and 13.2 percent, respectively.
CLEVELAND, August 2, 2011
Fiscal 2011 fourth quarter sales were a record $3.4 billion, an increase of 22.4 percent from $2.8 billion in the same quarter a year ago. Net income for the fourth quarter was also a record at $294.7 million, a 32.1 percent increase compared with $223.1 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Earnings per diluted share for the quarter were a record $1.79, compared with $1.35 in last year's
 
fourth quarter. Cash flow from operations for fiscal 2011 fourth quarter was $367 million, or 10.8 percent of sales, compared with cash flow from operations of $377 million, or 13.5 percent of sales in the prior year period. Fiscal 2011 fourth quarter cash flow from operations included a $200 million discretionary contribution to the company's pension plan. Excluding this discretionary contribution, cash flow as a percent of sales was 16.6 percent for the fiscal 2011 fourth quarter.
"Achieving record performance this year is a remarkable accomplishment," said Chairman, CEO and President, Don Washkewicz. "I am especially proud of our global team that delivered this performance. We will continue the focus on executing Parker's Win Strategy and build on this success."
Parker also achieved all-time record sales and earnings per share in the fourth quarter and strong segment operating margin performance. Total sales for the quarter increased 22 percent as organic sales increased 15 percent, acquisitions contributed 1 percent and foreign currency translation was a positive 6 percent. Profitability in the quarter was strongest in the Industrial segment. Industrial North America segment operating margin reached 16.9 percent and Industrial International segment operating margin was 14.7 percent.
Segment Results
In the Industrial North America segment, fourth quarter sales increased 18.6 percent to $1.2 billion, and operating income was $207.3 million compared with $162.9 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Industrial International segment, fourth quarter sales increased 33.8 percent to $1.4 billion, and operating income was $202.8 million compared with $140.3 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Aerospace segment, fourth quarter sales increased 9.3 percent to $521.9 million, and operating income was $70.7 million compared with $64.1 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Climate and Industrial Controls segment, fourth quarter sales increased 15.2 percent to $276.8 million, and operating income was $22.5 million compared with $20.5 million in the same period a year ago.
 
Orders
Parker reported an increase of 15 percent in orders for the quarter ending June 30, 2011, compared with the same quarter a year ago. The company reported the following orders by operating segment:
 
 
 
 
Outlook
For fiscal 2012, the company has issued guidance for earnings from continuing operations in the range of $6.70 to $7.50 per diluted share.
Washkewicz added, "Our earnings range for fiscal 2012 anticipates another record year for Parker. We will continue in fiscal 2012 with a strong focus on the fundamentals defined by the Win Strategy. We will continue to invest in profitable growth through new product and systems innovation, strategic acquisitions, and expansion of our distribution network."
: Parker Hannifin's conference call and slide presentation to discuss its fiscal 2011 fourth quarter and full year results are available to all interested parties via live webcast today at 10:00 a.m. ET, on the company's investor information web site at . To access the call, click on the "Live Webcast" link. From this link, users also may complete a pre-call system test and register for e-mail notification of future events and information available from Parker. A replay of the conference call will also be available at for one year after the call.
NOTICE OF CONFERENCE CALL
www.phstock.com
www.phstock.com
 
With annual sales exceeding $12 billion in fiscal year 2011, Parker Hannifin is the world's leading diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, providing precision-engineered solutions for a wide variety of mobile, industrial and aerospace markets. The company employs approximately 58,000 people in 47 countries around the world. Parker has increased its annual dividends paid to shareholders for 55 consecutive fiscal years, among the top five longest-running dividend-increase records in the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit the company's web site at , or its investor information web site at .
www.parker.com
www.phstock.com
Notes on Orders
Orders provide near-term perspective on the company's outlook, particularly when viewed in the context of prior and future quarterly order rates. However, orders are not in themselves an indication of future performance. All comparisons are at constant currency exchange rates, with the prior year restated to the current-year rates. All exclude acquisitions until they can be reflected in both the numerator and denominator. Aerospace comparisons are rolling 12-month average computations. The total Parker orders number is derived from a weighted average of the year-over-year quarterly percent change in orders for the Industrial North America, Industrial International, and Climate and Industrial Controls segments, and the year-over-year 12-month rolling average of orders for the Aerospace segment.
Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are made based on known events and circumstances at the time of release, and as such, are subject in the future to unforeseen uncertainties and risks. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, events or developments are forward-looking statements. It is possible that the future performance and earnings projections of the company, including its individual segments, may differ materially from current expectations, depending on economic conditions within its mobile, industrial and aerospace markets, and the company's ability to maintain and achieve anticipated benefits associated with announced realignment activities, strategic initiatives to improve operating margins, actions taken to combat the effects of the current economic environment, and growth, innovation and global diversification initiatives. A change in economic conditions in individual markets may have a particularly volatile effect on segment performance. Among other factors which may affect future performance are: changes in business relationships with and purchases by or from major customers, suppliers or distributors, including delays or cancellations in shipments, disputes regarding contract terms or significant changes in financial condition, changes in contract cost and revenue estimates for new development programs and changes in product mix; uncertainties surrounding timing, successful completion or integration of acquisitions; ability to realize anticipated costs savings from business realignment activities; threats associated with and efforts to combat terrorism; uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of outstanding legal proceedings, including the outcome of any appeals; competitive market conditions and resulting effects on sales and pricing; increases in raw material costs that cannot be recovered in product pricing; the company's ability to manage costs related to insurance and employee retirement and health care benefits; and global economic factors, including manufacturing activity, air travel trends, currency exchange rates, difficulties entering new markets and general economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates and credit availability. The company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure, and undertakes no obligation to update them unless otherwise required by law.
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATIONJUNE 30, 2011
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATIONJUNE 30, 2011
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
 



