FILE:PH/PH-8K-20111018085238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure"
On October 18, 2011, Parker-Hannifin Corporation issued a press release and presented a Webcast announcing earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. The press release and Webcast presentation contains references to sales growth excluding the effects of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates. The effects on sales of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates are removed to allow investors and the company to meaningfully evaluate changes in sales on a comparable basis from period to period. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. A copy of the Webcast presentation is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 18, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
[GRAPHIC]
 
Parker Reports Record Fiscal 2012 First Quarter Sales, Net Income and Earnings per Share
 
 
 
 Parker Hannifin Corporation (NYSE: PH), the global leader in motion and control technologies, today reported results for the fiscal 2012 first quarter ended September 30, 2011. Fiscal 2012 first quarter sales were a record at $3.2 billion, an increase of 14.3 percent from $2.8 billion in the prior year quarter. Net income was an all-time record at $298.1 million, an increase of 19.7 percent compared with $249.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Fiscal 2012 first quarter earnings per diluted share were also an all-time record at $1.91 compared with $1.51 in the prior year quarter.
CLEVELAND, October 18, 2011
Cash flow from operations for the fiscal 2012 first quarter was $309.5 million, or 9.6 percent of sales. During the quarter, the company repurchased approximately 4.4 million of its outstanding common shares for $292 million.
"I am pleased we delivered a very strong first quarter performance as we target another record year for Parker," said Chairman, CEO and President, Don Washkewicz. "Record first quarter sales were driven by strong organic sales growth of 10 percent, while foreign currency translation contributed 3 percent and acquisitions contributed 1 percent. I am particularly pleased that we generated an all-time quarterly record for total segment
 
operating margins of 16.1 percent reflecting our focus on driving operational excellence across the organization. Segment operating margins were particularly strong in our North America Industrial segment at 18.5 percent, while our Aerospace segment demonstrated the strongest year-over-year improvement in operating margins."
Segment Results
In the Industrial North America segment, first quarter sales increased 13.1 percent to $1.2 billion, and operating income was $223.2 million compared with $189.4 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Industrial International segment, first quarter sales increased 17.9 percent to $1.3 billion, and operating income was $208.2 million compared with $183.8 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Aerospace segment, first quarter sales increased 13.9 percent to $497.5 million, and operating income was $68.6 million compared with $43.8 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Climate and Industrial Controls segment, first quarter sales increased 3.3 percent to $242.5 million, and operating income was $19.8 million compared with $21.6 million in the same period a year ago.
Orders
Parker reported an increase of 9 percent in orders for the quarter ending September 30, 2011, compared with the same quarter a year ago. The company reported the following orders by operating segment:
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
For fiscal 2012, the company has increased guidance for earnings from continuing operations to the range of $7.25 to $7.85 per diluted share.
Washkewicz added, "We are off to a strong start in fiscal 2012 and anticipate another record year for Parker. We are increasing diluted earnings per share guidance for the year largely based upon our strong first quarter performance, a lower share count and growth in order entry."
: Parker Hannifin's conference call and slide presentation to discuss its fiscal 2012 first quarter results are available to all interested parties via live webcast today at 10:00 a.m. ET, on the company's investor information web site at . To access the call, click on the "Live Webcast" link. From this link, users also may complete a pre-call system test and register for e-mail notification of future events and information available from Parker. A replay of the conference call will also be available at for one year after the call.
NOTICE OF CONFERENCE CALL
www.phstock.com
www.phstock.com
With annual sales exceeding $12 billion in fiscal year 2011, Parker Hannifin is the world's leading diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, providing precision-engineered solutions for a wide variety of mobile, industrial and aerospace markets. The company employs approximately 58,000 people in 47 countries around the world. Parker has increased its annual dividends paid to shareholders for 55 consecutive fiscal years, among the top five longest-running dividend-increase records in the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit the company's web site at , or its investor information web site at .
www.parker.com
www.phstock.com
Notes on Orders
Orders provide near-term perspective on the company's outlook, particularly when viewed in the context of prior and future quarterly order rates. However, orders are not in themselves an indication of future performance. All comparisons are at
 
constant currency exchange rates, with the prior year restated to the current-year rates. All exclude acquisitions until they can be reflected in both the numerator and denominator. Aerospace comparisons are rolling 12-month average computations. The total Parker orders number is derived from a weighted average of the year-over-year quarterly percent change in orders for the Industrial North America, Industrial International, and Climate and Industrial Controls segments, and the year-over-year 12-month rolling average of orders for the Aerospace segment.
Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are made based on known events and circumstances at the time of release, and as such, are subject in the future to unforeseen uncertainties and risks. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, events or developments are forward-looking statements. It is possible that the future performance and earnings projections of the company, including its individual segments, may differ materially from current expectations, depending on economic conditions within its mobile, industrial and aerospace markets, and the company's ability to maintain and achieve anticipated benefits associated with announced realignment activities, strategic initiatives to improve operating margins, actions taken to combat the effects of the current economic environment, and growth, innovation and global diversification initiatives. A change in economic conditions in individual markets may have a particularly volatile effect on segment performance. Among other factors which may affect future performance are: changes in business relationships with and purchases by or from major customers, suppliers or distributors, including delays or cancellations in shipments, disputes regarding contract terms or significant changes in financial condition, changes in contract cost and revenue estimates for new development programs and changes in product mix; uncertainties surrounding timing, successful completion or integration of acquisitions; ability to realize anticipated costs savings from business realignment activities; threats associated with and efforts to combat terrorism; uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of outstanding legal proceedings, including the outcome of any appeals; competitive market conditions and resulting effects on sales and pricing; increases in raw material costs that cannot be recovered in product pricing; the company's ability to manage costs related to insurance and employee retirement and health care benefits; and global economic factors, including manufacturing activity, air travel trends, currency exchange rates, difficulties entering new markets and general economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates and credit availability. The company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure, and undertakes no obligation to update them unless otherwise required by law.
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION - SEPTEMBER 30, 2011
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION - SEPTEMBER 30, 2011
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(Unaudited)
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited)
 



