FILE:PH/PH-8K-20110427091056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure"
On April 27, 2011, Parker-Hannifin Corporation issued a press release and presented a Webcast announcing earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. The press release and Webcast presentation contain references to sales growth excluding the effects of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates. The effects of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates are removed to allow investors and the company to meaningfully evaluate changes in sales on a comparable basis from period to period. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. A copy of the Webcast presentation is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 27, 2011

 
Parker Reports Record Fiscal 2011 Third Quarter Sales, Net Income and Earnings per Share and Increases Dividend 16 Percent
 
 
 
 
 Parker Hannifin Corporation (NYSE: PH), the global leader in motion and control technologies, today reported record results for the fiscal 2011 third quarter ended March 31, 2011. Fiscal 2011 third quarter sales were $3.2 billion, a third quarter record representing an increase of 23.9 percent from $2.6 billion in the same quarter a year ago. Net income was an all-time quarterly record of $281.6 million, an increase of 82.4 percent from $154.4 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Earnings per diluted share for the quarter were also an all-time quarterly record at $1.68, compared with $0.94 in last year's third quarter. Cash flow from operations for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 was $799.9 million, or 9.0 percent of sales, compared with cash flow from operations of $841.4 million, or 11.7 percent of sales in the prior year period.
CLEVELAND, April 27, 2011
"Our third quarter performance reflects the continued strength that we see across our end markets and regions and our ability to leverage that strength into higher operating margins and record quarterly earnings per share," said Chairman, CEO and President Don Washkewicz. "Customer orders also increased significantly in the quarter.
 
All segments reported a double-digit increase in sales and order levels. Total organic sales increased 21 percent in the quarter with acquisitions contributing 1 percent and currency contributing 2 percent. Margin performance was also a positive as total segment operating margin was a third quarter record of 14.8 percent, led by Industrial North America segment margin of 16.1 percent and Industrial International segment margin of 15.5 percent. Further reflecting our continued strong balance sheet and cash flow, the Board of Directors today approved a 16 percent increase in our quarterly dividend from 32 cents to 37 cents per common share."
Segment Results
In the Industrial North America segment, third quarter sales increased 23.0 percent to $1.2 billion, and operating income was $189.5 million compared with $133.6 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Industrial International segment, third quarter sales increased 29.9 percent to $1.3 billion, and operating income was $199.8 million compared with $109.3 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Aerospace segment, third quarter sales increased 12.1 percent to $503.8 million, and operating income was $69.0 million compared with $49.8 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Climate and Industrial Controls segment, third quarter sales increased 24.9 percent to $264.5 million, and operating income was $22.6 million compared with $16.3 million in the same period a year ago.
Orders
Parker reported an increase of 24 percent in total orders for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, compared with the same quarter a year ago. The company reported the following orders by operating segment:
 
 
 
 
Outlook
For fiscal 2011, the company has increased guidance for earnings from continuing operations from the previous range of $5.80 to $6.20 per diluted share to a new range of $6.20 to $6.40 per diluted share.
Washkewicz added, "Our performance year-to-date reflects the ongoing economic recovery and the continued execution of our Win Strategy, now in its tenth year. Parker continues to position itself favorably for continued earnings growth by focusing on premier service to our customers, lean operations and ongoing investments in leading edge innovations across the company. Parker expects to deliver record earnings in fiscal 2011, with a strong order backlog going into fiscal year 2012."
: Parker Hannifin's conference call and slide presentation to discuss its fiscal 2011 third quarter results are available to all interested parties via live webcast today at 10:00 a.m. ET, on the company's investor information web site at . To access the call, click on the "Live Webcast" link. From this link, users also may complete a pre-call system test and register for e-mail notification of future events and information available from Parker. A replay of the conference call will also be available at for one year after the call.
NOTICE OF CONFERENCE CALL
www.phstock.com
www.phstock.com
With annual sales of $10 billion in fiscal year 2010, Parker Hannifin is the world's leading diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, providing precision-engineered solutions for a
 
wide variety of mobile, industrial and aerospace markets. The company employs approximately 55,000 people in 46 countries around the world. Parker has increased its annual dividends paid to shareholders for 55 consecutive fiscal years, among the top five longest-running dividend-increase records in the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit the company's web site at , or its investor information web site at .
www.parker.com
www.phstock.com
Notes on Orders
Orders provide near-term perspective on the company's outlook, particularly when viewed in the context of prior and future quarterly order rates. However, orders are not in themselves an indication of future performance. All comparisons are at constant currency exchange rates, with the prior year restated to the current-year rates. All exclude acquisitions until they can be reflected in both the numerator and denominator. Aerospace comparisons are rolling 12-month average computations. The total Parker orders number is derived from a weighted average of the year-over-year quarterly percent change in orders for the Industrial North America, Industrial International, and Climate and Industrial Controls segments, and the year-over-year 12-month rolling average of orders for the Aerospace segment.
Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are made based on known events and circumstances at the time of release, and as such, are subject in the future to unforeseen uncertainties and risks. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, events or developments are forward-looking statements. It is possible that the future performance and earnings projections of the company, including its individual segments, may differ materially from current expectations, depending on economic conditions within its mobile, industrial and aerospace markets, and the company's ability to maintain and achieve anticipated benefits associated with announced realignment activities, strategic initiatives to improve operating margins, actions taken to combat the effects of the current economic environment, and growth, innovation and global diversification initiatives. A change in economic conditions in individual markets may have a particularly volatile effect on segment performance. Among other factors which may affect future performance are: changes in business relationships with and purchases by or from major customers, suppliers or distributors, including delays or cancellations in shipments, disputes regarding contract terms or significant changes in financial condition, changes in contract cost and revenue estimates for new development programs and changes in product mix; uncertainties surrounding timing, successful completion or integration of acquisitions; ability to realize anticipated costs savings from business realignment activities; threats associated with and efforts to combat terrorism; uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of outstanding legal proceedings, including the outcome of any appeals; competitive market conditions and resulting effects on sales and pricing; increases in raw material costs that cannot be recovered in product pricing; the company's ability to manage costs related to insurance and employee retirement and health care benefits; and global economic factors, including manufacturing activity, air travel trends, currency exchange rates, difficulties entering new markets and general economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates and credit availability. The company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure, and undertakes no obligation to update them unless otherwise required by law.
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION - MARCH 31, 2011
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION - MARCH 31, 2011
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(Unaudited)
 



