FILE:PH/PH-8K-20120424093151.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure".
On April 24, 2012, Parker-Hannifin Corporation issued a press release and presented a Webcast announcing earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. The press release contains references to sales growth excluding the effects of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates. The effects on sales of acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rates are removed to allow investors and the company to meaningfully evaluate changes in sales on a comparable basis from period to period. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. A copy of the Webcast presentation is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 24, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Parker Reports Record Sales, Net Income and Earnings per Share for the Fiscal 2012 Third Quarter
 
 
 
 
 Parker Hannifin Corporation (NYSE: PH), the global leader in motion and control technologies, today reported results for the fiscal 2012 third quarter ended March 31, 2012. Fiscal 2012 third quarter sales were $3.4 billion, a third quarter record and an increase of 4.7 percent from $3.2 billion in the prior year quarter. Net income was an all-time quarterly record at $312.7 million, an increase of 11.0 percent compared with $281.6 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Fiscal 2012 third quarter earnings per diluted share were an all-time quarterly record at $2.01, an increase of 19.6 percent compared with $1.68 in the prior year quarter. Cash flow from operations for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 was $1,006.5 million, or 10.3 percent of sales, compared with $799.9 million, or 9.0 percent of sales, for the first nine months of fiscal 2011.
CLEVELAND, April 24, 2012
"This quarter's results benefitted, in part, from the favorable resolution of prior year tax filings, however, all-time record quarterly earnings were largely achieved as a result of strong operating performance in North America," said Chairman, CEO and President, Don Washkewicz. "Our organic sales growth was 6 percent, led by a double-digit increase in the North America Industrial segment, while currency translation negatively affected sales by 1
 
percent. Internationally, results outpaced expectations for the quarter and market conditions remain stable. Total company segment operating margin remained strong and represented a third quarter record at 15.1 percent, primarily driven by record third quarter operating margins in the Industrial North America segment. Year-to-date, operating cash flow is very strong at 10.3 percent of sales and we continue to invest for growth including our recently completed acquisition of Snap-tite Incorporated to expand our presence in fluid power and process control markets."
Segment Results
In the Industrial North America segment, third quarter sales increased 11.6 percent to $1.3 billion, and operating income was $227.0 million compared with $189.5 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Industrial International segment, third quarter sales declined 0.5 percent to $1.3 billion, and operating income was $195.1 million compared with $199.8 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Aerospace segment, third quarter sales increased 7.7 percent to $542.8 million, and operating income was $65.9 million compared with $69.0 million in the same period a year ago.
In the Climate and Industrial Controls segment, third quarter sales declined 6.0 percent to $248.7 million, and operating income was $23.2 million compared with $22.6 million in the same period a year ago.
Orders
Parker reported an increase of 2 percent in orders for the quarter ending March 31, 2012, compared with the same quarter a year ago. The company reported the following orders by operating segment:
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
For fiscal 2012, the company has increased its guidance for earnings from continuing operations to the range of $7.30 to $7.50 per diluted share.
Washkewicz added, "Reflecting our strong outperformance relative to guidance, Parker is increasing our earnings outlook for the year. The Company remains on pace to deliver an all-time record year in fiscal 2012."
: Parker Hannifin's conference call and slide presentation to discuss its fiscal 2012 third quarter results are available to all interested parties via live webcast today at 10:00 a.m. ET, on the company's investor information web site at . To access the call, click on the "Live Webcast" link. From this link, users also may complete a pre-call system test and register for e-mail notification of future events and information available from Parker. A replay of the conference call will also be available at for one year after the call.
NOTICE OF CONFERENCE CALL
www.phstock.com
www.phstock.com
With annual sales exceeding $12 billion in fiscal year 2011, Parker Hannifin is the world's leading diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, providing precision-engineered solutions for a wide variety of mobile, industrial and aerospace markets. The company employs approximately 58,000 people in 47 countries around the world. Parker has increased its annual dividends paid to shareholders for 55 consecutive fiscal years, among the top five longest-running dividend-increase records in the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit the company's web site at , or its investor information web site at .
www.parker.com
www.phstock.com
 
Notes on Orders
Orders provide near-term perspective on the company's outlook, particularly when viewed in the context of prior and future quarterly order rates. However, orders are not in themselves an indication of future performance. All comparisons are at constant currency exchange rates, with the prior year restated to the current-year rates. All exclude acquisitions until they can be reflected in both the numerator and denominator. Aerospace comparisons are rolling 12-month average computations. The total Parker orders number is derived from a weighted average of the year-over-year quarterly percent change in orders for the Industrial North America, Industrial International, and Climate and Industrial Controls segments, and the year-over-year 12-month rolling average of orders for the Aerospace segment.
Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are made based on known events and circumstances at the time of release, and as such, are subject in the future to unforeseen uncertainties and risks. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, events or developments are forward-looking statements. It is possible that the future performance and earnings projections of the company, including its individual segments, may differ materially from current expectations, depending on economic conditions within its mobile, industrial and aerospace markets, and the company's ability to maintain and achieve anticipated benefits associated with announced realignment activities, strategic initiatives to improve operating margins, actions taken to combat the effects of the current economic environment, and growth, innovation and global diversification initiatives. A change in the economic conditions in individual markets may have a particularly volatile effect on segment performance. Among other factors which may affect future performance are: changes in business relationships with and purchases by or from major customers, suppliers or distributors, including delays or cancellations in shipments, disputes regarding contract terms or significant changes in financial condition, changes in contract cost and revenue estimates for new development programs and changes in product mix; ability to identify acceptable strategic acquisition targets; uncertainties surrounding timing, successful completion or integration of acquisitions; ability to realize anticipated cost savings from business realignment activities; threats associated with and efforts to combat terrorism; uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of outstanding legal proceedings, including the outcome of any appeals; competitive market conditions and resulting effects on sales and pricing; increases in raw material costs that cannot be recovered in product pricing; the company's ability to manage costs related to insurance and employee retirement and health care benefits; and global economic factors, including manufacturing activity, air travel trends, currency exchange rates, difficulties entering new markets and general economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates and credit availability. The company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure, and undertakes no obligation to update them unless otherwise required by law.
 
PARKER HANNIFIN CORPORATION - MARCH 31, 2012
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
(Unaudited)
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION BY INDUSTRY
(Unaudited)
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(Unaudited)
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited)
 



