Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Environment and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, could cause our results to differ materially from results that have been or may be anticipated or projected. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update these statements to reflect any change in expectations or beliefs or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward looking statement is or may be based. INTRODUCTORY NOTE For periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10 K prior to June 10, 2008, Lorillard, Inc. was a wholly owned subsidiary of Loews Corporation (Loews), a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE). Our results of operations and financial condition were included as a separate reporting segment in Loewss financial statements and filings with the SEC. Beginning in 2002 and through June 10, 2008, Loews had also issued a separate class of its common stock, referred to as the Carolina Group Stock, to track the economic performance of Loewss 100% interest in Lorillard, Inc. and certain liabilities, costs and expenses of Loews and Lorillard arising out of or related to tobacco or tobacco related businesses. On June 10, 2008, we began operating as an independent, publicly traded company pursuant to our separation from Loews (the Separation). In connection with the Separation, we entered into an agreement with Loews on May 7, 2008 to provide for the separation of our business from Loews as well as providing for indemnification and allocation of taxes between the parties (the Separation Agreement). PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview Lorillard is the third largest manufacturer of cigarettes in the United States. Founded in 1760, Lorillard is the oldest continuously operating tobacco company in the United States. Newport, our flagship menthol flavored premium cigarette brand, is the top selling menthol and second largest selling cigarette brand overall in the United States based on gross units sold in 2011. The Newport brand, which now includes our Newport Non Menthol product offerings, accounted for approximately 88.4% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. In addition to the Newport brand, our product line has four additional brand families marketed under the Kent, True, Maverick, and Old Gold brand names. These five brands include 43 different product offerings which vary in price, taste, flavor, length and packaging. In 2011, we shipped 40.7 billion cigarettes, all of which were sold in the United States and certain U.S. possessions and territories. We sold our major trademarks outside of the United States in 1977. We maintain our headquarters and manufacture all of our products at our Greensboro, North Carolina facility. We produce cigarettes for both the premium and discount segments of the domestic cigarette market. We do not compete in a subcategory of the discount segment that we identify as the deep discount segment. Premium brands are well known, established brands marketed at higher retail prices. Discount brands are generally less well recognized brands marketed at lower retail prices. We define the deep discount subcategory to include brands sold 2 Table of Contents at the lowest retail prices. Deep discount cigarettes are typically manufactured by smaller companies, relative to us and other major U.S. manufacturers, many of which have no, or significantly lower, payment obligations under the Master Settlement Agreement among major tobacco manufacturers and 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions (the MSA) and the settlements of similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota, collectively the State Settlement Agreements. Advertising and Sales Promotion The predominant form of promotion in the industry and for us consists of retail price reduction programs, such as discounting or lowering the price of a pack or carton of cigarettes in the retail store. These programs are developed, implemented and executed by our sales force through merchandising or promotional agreements with retail chain accounts and independent retailers. We focus our retail programs in markets and stores reflecting unique potential for increased menthol sales. Our direct buying wholesale customers provide us with information as to the quantities of cigarettes shipped to their retail accounts on a weekly basis. This data covers approximately 99% of domestic wholesale units shipped by us and our major competitors, and enables us to analyze, plan and execute retail promotion programs in markets and stores that optimize the most efficient and effective return on our promotional investments. We employ other promotion methods to communicate with our adult consumers as well as with adult smokers of our competitors products. These promotional programs include the use of direct marketing communications, retail coupons, relationship marketing and promotional materials intended to be displayed at retail. Relationship marketing entails the use of various communication techniques to directly reach adult consumers in order to establish a relationship with them for the purpose of advertising and promoting a product or products. We use our proprietary database of smokers of our brands and smokers of our competitors brands to reach adult consumers with targeted communications about a given brand through age restricted direct mail and internet programs. We regularly review the results of our promotional spending activities and adjust our promotional spending programs in an effort to maintain our competitive position. Accordingly, sales promotion costs in any particular fiscal period are not necessarily indicative of costs that may be realized in subsequent periods. Advertising plays a relatively lesser role in our overall marketing strategy. We advertise Newport in a limited number of magazines that meet certain requirements regarding the age and composition of their readership. Newport is our only brand that receives magazine advertising support. Advertising of tobacco products through television and radio has been prohibited since 1971. Under the State Settlement Agreements, the participating cigarette manufacturers agreed to severe restrictions on their advertising and promotion activities including, among other things: prohibiting the targeting of youth in the advertising, promotion or marketing of tobacco products; banning the use of cartoon characters in all tobacco advertising and promotion; limiting each tobacco manufacturer to one brand name event sponsorship during any twelve month period, which may not include major team sports or events in which the intended audience includes a significant percentage of youth; banning all outdoor advertising of tobacco products with the exception of small signs at retail establishments that sell tobacco products; banning tobacco manufacturers from offering or selling apparel and other merchandise that bears a tobacco brand name, subject to specified exceptions; prohibiting the distribution of free samples of tobacco products except within adult only facilities; prohibiting payments for tobacco product placement in various media; and banning gift offers based on the purchase of tobacco products without sufficient proof that the intended gift recipient is an adult. 3 Table of Contents On June 22, 2009 the federal Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the FSPTCA) was signed into law granting authority over the regulation of tobacco products to the FDA. Pursuant to the FSPTCA, the FDA reissued a set of marketing and sales restrictions originally promulgated in 1995 as part of an unsuccessful effort by the agency to assert jurisdiction over tobacco products. The FSPTCA also contains other restrictions, some of which may be more stringent than those found in the original 1995 FDA rule, affecting the advertising, marketing and sale of cigarette products. See the section entitled Legislation and Regulation below for additional information concerning the marketing and sales provisions of the FSPTCA. In addition, many states, cities and counties have enacted legislation or regulations further restricting tobacco advertising, marketing and sales promotions, and others may do so in the future. We cannot predict the impact of such initiatives on our marketing and sales efforts. We fund a Youth Smoking Prevention Program, which is designed to discourage youth from smoking by promoting parental involvement and assisting parents in discussing the issue of smoking with their children. We are also a founding member of the Coalition for Responsible Tobacco Retailing which through its We Card program trains retailers in how to prevent the purchase of cigarettes by underage persons. In addition, we have adopted guidelines established by the National Association of Attorneys General to restrict advertising in magazines with large readership among people under the age of 18. Customers and Distribution Our field sales personnel are based throughout the United States, and we maintain field sales offices in major cities throughout the United States. Our sales department is divided into regions based on geography and sales territories. We sell our products primarily to wholesale distributors, who in turn service retail outlets, chain store organizations, and government agencies, including the U.S. Armed Forces. Upon completion of the manufacturing process, we ship cigarettes to public distribution warehouse facilities for rapid order fulfillment to wholesalers and other direct buying customers. We retain a portion of our manufactured cigarettes at our Greensboro central distribution center and Greensboro cold storage facility for future finished goods replenishment. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 500 direct buying customers servicing more than 400,000 retail accounts. We do not sell cigarettes directly to consumers. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, sales made by us to the McLane Company, Inc. comprised 28%, 27% and 26%, respectively, of our revenues. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of 2011, 2010 or 2009 revenues. We do not have any written sales agreements with our customers, including the McLane Company, Inc. that provide for any backlog orders. Most of our customers buy cigarettes on a next day delivery basis. Customer orders are shipped from public distribution warehouses via third party carriers. We do not ship products directly to retail stores. In 2011, approximately 99% of our customers purchased cigarettes using electronic funds transfer, which provides immediate payment to us. Raw Materials and Manufacturing In our production of cigarettes, we use domestic and foreign grown burley and flue cured leaf tobaccos, as well as aromatic tobaccos grown primarily in Turkey and other Near Eastern countries. We believe that there is an adequate supply of tobacco leaf of the type and quality we require at competitive prices from a combination of global sources, and that we are not dependent on any one geographic region or country for our requirements. An affiliate of Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) manufactures all of our reconstituted tobacco pursuant to our specifications, as set forth in the agreement between us and RAI. Reconstituted tobacco is a form of tobacco material manufactured as a paper like sheet from small pieces of tobacco that are too small to incorporate into the cigarette directly and may include some tobacco stems, and which is used as a component of cigarette blends. We purchase our tobacco leaf through tobacco dealers, which contract with leaf growers. Such purchases are made at prevailing market prices in the country of origin. Due to the varying size and quality of annual crops, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other foreign currencies and other economic factors, tobacco prices have historically fluctuated. We direct these dealers in the purchase of tobacco according to our specifications for quality, grade, yield, particle size, moisture content, and other characteristics. The dealers purchase and process the whole leaf and then dry and package it for shipment to and storage at our Danville, Virginia facility. We have not experienced any difficulty in purchasing our requirement of leaf tobacco. 4 Table of Contents We purchased more than 70% of our domestic leaf tobacco from one dealer, Alliance One International, Inc. (Alliance One) in 2009, 2010 and 2011. If Alliance One becomes unwilling or unable to supply leaf tobacco to us, we believe that we can readily obtain high quality leaf tobacco from well established, alternative industry sources. However, we believe that such high quality leaf tobacco may not be available at prices comparable to those we pay to Alliance One. We store our tobacco in 29 storage warehouses on our 130 acre Danville, Virginia facility. To protect against loss, amounts of all types and grades of tobacco are stored in separate warehouses. Certain types of tobacco used in our blends must be allowed to mature over time to allow natural chemical changes that enhance certain characteristics affecting taste. Because of these aging requirements, we maintain large quantities of leaf tobacco at all times. We believe our current tobacco inventories are sufficient and adequately balanced for our present and expected production requirements. If necessary, we can typically purchase aged tobacco in the open market to supplement existing inventories. We produce cigarettes at our Greensboro, North Carolina manufacturing plant, which has a production capacity of approximately 200 million cigarettes per day and approximately 50 billion cigarettes per year. Through various automated systems and sensors, we actively monitor all phases of production to promote quality and compliance with applicable regulations. Research and Development We have an experienced research and development team that continuously evaluates new products and line extensions and assesses new technologies and scientific advancements to be able to respond to marketplace demands and developing regulatory requirements. Our research and development efforts focus primarily on: developing quality products that appeal to adult consumers; studying and developing consumer acceptable products with the potential for reduced exposure to smoke constituents or reduced health risk; identifying and investigating, through the use of internal and external resources, suspect constituents of cigarette products or their components to determine the feasibility of reduction or elimination; maintaining state of the art knowledge about public health and scientific issues related to cigarette products; developing new, or modifying existing, products and processes to promote quality control and to comply with current and anticipated laws and regulations; and collaborating and cooperating with outside public and private scientific institutions and encouraging independent research relating to cigarette products. Tobacco related research activities include: analysis of cigarette components, including cigarette paper, filters, tobacco and ingredients, including menthol; analysis of mainstream and sidestream smoke; and modification of cigarette design. We employ advanced scientific equipment in our research efforts, including gas chromatographs, mass spectrographs and liquid chromatographs. We use this equipment to structurally identify and measure the amount of chemical compounds found in cigarette smoke and various tobaccos. These measurements allow us to better understand the relationship between the tobacco, cigarette construction, and the smoke yielded from cigarettes. In addition, advanced biological techniques are developed and used to test the biological impact of tobacco smoke on cells and advance our understanding of potential biomarkers for disease risk. Information Technology We are committed to the use of information technology throughout the organization to provide operating effectiveness, cost reduction and competitive advantages. We believe our system platform provides the appropriate level of information in a timely fashion to effectively manage the business. We utilize proven technologies while 5 Table of Contents also continuously exploring new technologies consistent with our information technology architecture strategy. Our information technology environment is anchored by an SAP enterprise resource planning (ERP) system designed to meet the processing and analysis needs of our core business operations and financial control requirements. The process control and production methods in our manufacturing operation utilize scanning, radio frequency identification, wireless technologies and software products to monitor and control the manufacturing process. Our primary data center is located at our corporate headquarters and is staffed by an in house team of experienced information technology professionals. A satellite data center, located at our manufacturing facility, supports our manufacturing environment. In addition, we have a comprehensive redundancy and disaster recovery plan in place. Employees As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 2,800 full time employees. As of that date, approximately 1,000 of those employees were represented by labor unions covered by three collective bargaining agreements. Local Union #317T Greensboro of the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union (AFL CIO CLC) represents workers at our Greensboro manufacturing plant. In August 2011, a new collective bargaining agreement covering this Union was approved, which expires in September 2015. Workers at our Danville, Virginia tobacco storage facility are also represented by Local Union #317T Danville of the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union (AFL CIO CLC) and Local Union #513 of the National Conference of Firemen and Oilers/SEIU (AFL CIO CLC). The current agreements with Local Union #317T Danville and Local Union #513 will expire in April 2012. We have historically had an amicable relationship with the unions representing our employees. We provide a retirement plan, a profit sharing plan and other benefits for our hourly paid employees who are represented by unions. In addition, we provide to our salaried employees a retirement plan, group life, disability and health insurance program and a savings plan. We also maintain an incentive compensation plan for certain salaried employees. Intellectual Property We believe that our trademarks, including brand names, are important to our business. We own the patents, trade secrets, know how and trademarks, including our brand names and the distinctive packaging and displays, used by us in our business. All of our material trademarks are registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Rights in these trademarks in the United States will continue indefinitely as long as we continue to use the trademarks. We consider the blends of tobacco and the flavor formulas used to make our brands to be trade secrets. These trade secrets are generally not the subject of patents, though various of our manufacturing processes are patented. We sold the international rights to substantially all of our major brands, including Newport, in 1977. Competition The domestic market for cigarettes is highly competitive. Competition is primarily based on a brands taste; quality; price, including the level of discounting and other promotional activities; positioning; consumer loyalty; and retail display. Our principal competitors are the two other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, Philip Morris USA Inc. (Philip Morris), a subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc. and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (RJR Tobacco), a subsidiary of RAI. We also compete with numerous other smaller manufacturers and importers of cigarettes. We believe our ability to compete even more effectively has been restrained in some marketing areas as a result of retail merchandising contracts offered by Philip Morris and RJR Tobacco which limit the retail shelf space available to our brands. As a result, in some retail locations we are limited in competitively supporting our promotional programs, which may constrain sales. Please read the sections entitled Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Environment and Selected Industry and Market Share Data beginning on pages 26 and 32, respectively, for additional information. 6 Table of Contents Legislation and Regulation Our business operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the research, development and manufacture of cigarettes; the development of new tobacco products; the publication of health warnings on cigarette packaging and advertising; the sale of tobacco products; restrictions on smoking in public places; and fire safety standards. From time to time, new legislation and regulations are proposed and reports are published by government sponsored committees and others recommending additional regulation of tobacco products. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proposals, reports and recommendations. If they are enacted or implemented, certain of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition or results of operations in the future. Federal Regulation The Federal Comprehensive Smoking Education Act, which became effective in 1985, requires that cigarette packaging and advertising display one of the following four warning statements, on a rotating basis: (1) SURGEON GENERALS WARNING: Smoking Causes Lung Cancer, Heart Disease, Emphysema, and may Complicate Pregnancy. (2) SURGEON GENERALS WARNING: Quitting Smoking Now Greatly Reduces Serious Risks to Your Health. (3) SURGEON GENERALS WARNING: Smoking By Pregnant Women May Result in Fetal Injury, Premature Birth, and Low Birth Weight. (4) SURGEON GENERALS WARNING: Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide. This law also requires that each company that manufactures, packages or imports cigarettes shall annually provide to the Secretary of Health and Human Services a list of the ingredients added to tobacco in the manufacture of cigarettes. This list of ingredients may be submitted in a manner that does not identify the company that uses the ingredients or the brand of cigarettes that contain the ingredients. In addition, bills have been introduced in Congress, including those that would: prohibit all tobacco advertising and promotion; authorize the establishment of various anti smoking education programs; provide that current federal law should not be construed to relieve any person of liability under common or state law; permit state and local governments to restrict the sale and distribution of cigarettes; direct the placement of advertising of tobacco products; provide that cigarette advertising not be deductible as a business expense; restrict the sale or distribution of cigarettes in retail stores, by mail or over the internet; impose additional, or increase existing, excise taxes on cigarettes and require that cigarettes be manufactured in a manner that will cause them, under certain circumstances, to be self extinguishing. 7 Table of Contents In June 2009, the U.S. Congress passed, and the President signed into law, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act that grants the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authority to regulate tobacco products. The legislation: established a Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee to, among other things, evaluate the issues surrounding the use of menthol as a flavoring or ingredient in cigarettes and issue a nonbinding recommendation to the FDA regarding menthol by March 23, 2011; grants the FDA the regulatory authority to consider and impose broad additional restrictions through a rule making process, including a ban on the use of menthol in cigarettes; requires larger and more severe health warnings, including graphic images, on packs, cartons, and advertising; bans the use of descriptors on tobacco products, such as low tar and light; bans the distribution of free samples of cigarettes; requires the disclosure of ingredients and additives to consumers; requires pre market approval by the FDA of all new products, including substantially equivalent products; requires pre market approval by the FDA for all claims made with respect to reduced risk or reduced exposure products; allows the FDA to review existing products to determine whether these products are substantially equivalent to other products in the market; allows the FDA to require the reduction of nicotine or any other compound in cigarettes; allows the FDA to mandate the use of reduced risk technologies in conventional cigarettes; allows the FDA to place more severe restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sales of cigarettes; and permits inconsistent state regulation of the advertising or promotion of cigarettes and eliminates the existing federal preemption of such regulation. The legislation permits the FDA to impose restrictions regarding the use of menthol in cigarettes, including a ban, if those restrictions would be appropriate for the public health. Any ban or material limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. It is possible that such additional regulation, including regulation of menthol short of a ban thereof, could result in a decrease in cigarette sales in the United States (including sales of our brands), increased costs to us, and or the development of a significant black market for cigarettes, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Environmental Tobacco Smoke Various publications and studies by governmental entities have reported that environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) presents health risks. In addition, public health organizations have issued statements on the adverse health effects of ETS, and scientific papers have been published that address the health problems associated with ETS exposure. Various states, cities and municipalities have restricted public smoking in recent years, and these restrictions have been based at least in part on the publications regarding the health risks believed to be associated with ETS exposure. The governmental entities that have published these reports have included the Surgeon General of the United States, first in 1986 and again in 2006. The 2006 report, for instance, concluded that there is no risk free level of exposure to ETS. In 2000, the Department of Health and Human Services listed ETS as a known human carcinogen. In 1993, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency concluded that ETS is a human lung carcinogen in adults and causes respiratory effects in children. 8 Table of Contents Agencies of state governments also have issued publications regarding ETS, including reports by California entities that were published in 1997, 1999 and 2006. In the 2006 study, the California Air Resources Board determined that ETS is a toxic air contaminant. Based on these or other findings, public health concerns regarding ETS have lead and could continue to lead to the imposition of additional restrictions on public smoking, including bans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition or results of operations in the future. State and Local Regulation Many state, local and municipal governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, have adopted legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit or restrict, or are intended to discourage, smoking, including legislation, regulations or policies prohibiting or restricting smoking in various places such as public buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars and on airline flights and in the workplace. This trend has increased significantly since the release of the EPAs report regarding ETS in 1993. Two states, Massachusetts and Texas, have enacted legislation requiring each manufacturer of cigarettes sold in those states to submit an annual report identifying for each brand sold certain added constituents, and providing nicotine yield ratings and other information for certain brands. Neither law allows for the public release of trade secret information. A New York law which became effective in June 2004 requires cigarettes sold in that state to meet a mandated standard for ignition propensity. We developed proprietary technology to comply with the standards and were compliant by the effective date. Since the passage of the New York law, an additional 49 states and the District of Columbia have passed similar laws utilizing the same technical standards. The effective dates of these laws range from May 2006 to January 2011. As of November 1, 2009, all of our cigarettes were manufactured using this technology. Other similar laws and regulations have been enacted or considered by other state and local governments. We cannot predict the impact which these regulations may have on our business, though if enacted, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition or results of operations in the future. Excise Taxes and Assessments Cigarettes are subject to substantial federal, state and local excise taxes in the United States and, in general, such taxes have been increasing. Effective April 1, 2009, the federal excise tax on cigarettes increased to $50.33 per thousand cigarettes (or $1.0066 per pack of 20 cigarettes) from $19.50 per thousand cigarettes (or $0.39 per pack of 20 cigarettes). State excise taxes, which are levied upon and paid by the distributors, are also in effect in the fifty states, the District of Columbia and many municipalities. During 2011 state excise tax increases on cigarette sales were implemented in three states and the District of Columbia ranging from $0.20 per pack to $0.40 per pack and one state excise tax decrease of $0.10 per pack in New Hampshire. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, the combined state and municipal taxes ranged from $0.17 to $5.85 per pack of cigarettes. A federal law enacted in October 2004 repealed the federal supply management program for tobacco growers and compensated tobacco quota holders and growers with payments to be funded by an assessment on tobacco manufacturers and importers. Cigarette manufacturers and importers are responsible for paying 91.6% of a $10.14 billion payment to tobacco quota holders and growers over a ten year period. The law provides that payments will be based on shipments for domestic consumption. 9 Table of Contents Separation Agreement with Loews Corporation In connection with the Separation, we entered into a Separation Agreement with Loews Corporation on May 7, 2008. The Separation Agreement sets forth the relationship between Lorillard and Loews following the Separation, including provisions relating to indemnification and tax allocation between the parties. Indemnification Provisions We agreed to indemnify Loews and its officers, directors, employees and agents against all costs and expenses arising out of third party claims (including, without limitation, attorneys fees, interest, penalties and costs of investigation or preparation for defense), judgments, fines, losses, claims, damages, liabilities, taxes, demands, assessments and amounts paid in settlement based on, arising out of or resulting from: the ownership or the operation of our assets and properties, and the operation or conduct of our businesses at any time prior to or following the Separation (including with respect to any smoking and health claims and litigation); certain tax matters, as discussed below; any other activities in which we may engage; any action or omission by us (or any successor entity) that causes the Separation to become taxable to Loews; any breach by us of the Separation Agreement; any other acts or omissions by us arising out of the performance of our obligations under the Separation Agreement; misstatements in or omissions from the registration statement filed with regard to the Separation, other than misstatements or omissions made in reliance on information relating to and furnished by Loews for use in the preparation of such registration statement; and any taxes and related losses resulting from the receipt of any such indemnity payment. Our indemnification obligations, including the tax indemnification obligations described below, are binding on our successors. We are not permitted to merge, consolidate, transfer or convey all or a significant portion of our properties or assets unless the resulting entity, transferee or successor expressly agrees in writing to be bound by these indemnification obligations. Any equity security or equity interest of Lorillard Licensing Company, LLC (Lorillard Licensing), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary and owner of our trademarks, or any interest in the intellectual property owned by Lorillard Licensing, is deemed a significant portion for purposes of the foregoing. We also agreed to release Loews and its shareholders, officers, directors and employees from any liability owed by any of them to us with respect to acts or events occurring on or prior to the Separation date, except with respect to tax matters. The Separation Agreement also provides that Loews will indemnify us and our officers, directors, employees and agents against losses, including but not limited to, litigation matters, and other claims, based on, arising out of or resulting from: any activity that Loews and its subsidiaries (other than us) engage in; any breach by Loews of the Separation Agreement; any other acts or omissions by Loews arising out of the performance of its obligations under the Separation Agreement; and 10 Table of Contents misstatements in or omissions from the registration statement filed with regard to the Separation, but only with respect to misstatements or omissions made in reliance on information relating to and furnished by Loews for use in the preparation of such registration statement. Loews agreed to release us and all of our directors, officers and employees from any liability owed by any of us to Loews with respect to acts or events occurring on or prior to the Separation date, except with respect to tax matters. Tax Allocation Provisions Following the Separation, we are no longer included in Loewss consolidated group for federal income tax purposes. In connection with the Separation, the Separation Agreement provides certain tax allocation arrangements, pursuant to which we will indemnify Loews for tax liabilities that are allocated to us for taxable periods ending on or before the Separation date. The amount of federal income taxes allocated to us for such periods is generally equal to the federal income taxes that would have been payable by us during such periods if we had filed separate consolidated returns. In addition, with respect to periods in which we were included in Loewss consolidated group, Loews will indemnify us with respect to the tax liability of the members of the Loews consolidated group other than us. After the Separation, we have the right to be notified of and participate in tax matters for which we are financially responsible under the terms of the Separation Agreement, although Loews will generally control such matters. The Separation Agreement requires us (and any successor entity) to indemnify Loews for any losses resulting from the failure of the Separation to qualify as a tax free transaction (except if the failure to qualify is solely due to Loewss fault). This indemnification obligation applies regardless of whether the action is restricted as described above, or whether we or a potential successor obtains a supplemental ruling or an opinion of counsel. The Separation Agreement further provides for cooperation between us and Loews with respect to additional tax matters, including the exchange of information and the retention of records which may affect the income tax liability of the parties to the Separation Agreement. Available Information We are listed on the NYSE under the symbol LO. Our principal offices are located at 714 Green Valley Road, Greensboro, North Carolina 27408. Our telephone number is (336) 335 7000. Our corporate website is located at www.lorillard.com, and our filings pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge on our website under the tabs Investor Relations SEC Filings as soon as reasonably practicable after such filings are electronically filed with the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and charters for the audit, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees of our Board of Directors are also available on our website under the tabs, Investor Relations Corporate Governance and printed copies are available upon request. The information contained on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10 K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. Investors may also read and copy any materials that we file at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Readers may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains our reports. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS FDA regulation of menthol in cigarettes and concerns that mentholated cigarettes may pose greater health risks could adversely affect our business. Some plaintiffs in our litigation and constituencies, including the FDA and other public health agencies, have claimed or expressed concerns that mentholated cigarettes may pose greater health risks and may impact public health more than non mentholated cigarettes, including concerns that mentholated cigarettes may make it easier to start smoking and harder to quit, and may seek restrictions or a ban on the production and sale of mentholated cigarettes. Any ban or material limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Following the passage of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the Act) in June 2009, the FDA established the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee (the TPSAC) to evaluate, among other things, the impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health, including such use among children, African Americans, Hispanics, and other racial and ethnic minorities. In addition, the Act permits the FDA to impose restrictions regarding the use of menthol in cigarettes, including a ban, if those restrictions would be appropriate for the public health. The TPSAC or the Menthol Report Subcommittee held meetings on March 30 31, 2010, July 15 16, 2010, September 27, 2010, October 7, 2010, November 18, 2010, January 10 11, 2011, February 10 11, 2011, March 2, 2011, March 17 18, 2011 and July 21, 2011 to consider the issues surrounding the use of menthol in cigarettes. At the March 18, 2011 meeting, TPSAC presented its report and recommendations on menthol. The reports findings included that menthol likely increases experimentation and regular smoking, menthol likely increases the likelihood and degree of addiction for youth smokers, non white menthol smokers (particularly African Americans) are less likely to quit smoking and are less responsive to certain cessation medications, and that consumers continue to believe that smoking menthol cigarettes is less harmful than smoking nonmenthol cigarettes as a result of the cigarette industrys historical marketing. TPSACs overall recommendation to the FDA was that [r]emoval of menthol cigarettes from the marketplace would benefit public health in the United States. At the July 21, 2011 meeting, TPSAC considered revisions to its report, and the voting members unanimously approved the final report for submission to the FDA with no change in its recommendation. On June 27, 2011, the FDA provided a progress report on its review of the science related to menthol cigarettes. In the June 2011 update, the FDA stated that [e]xperts within the FDA Center for Tobacco Products are conducting an independent review of the science related to the impact [of menthol] in cigarettes on public health The FDA stated that it would submit its draft independent review of menthol science to an external peer review panel in July 2011. On January 26, 2012, the FDA provided a second progress report on its review of the science related to menthol cigarettes. In its January 2012 update, the FDA stated that FDA submitted its report to external scientists for peer review, and the agency is revising its report based on their feedback. FDA stated its intent to make the final report, along with the peer review scientists feedback and the agencys response to the feedback, available for public comment in the Federal Register. The FDA did not provide a date for releasing the final report. The FDA also indicated that it would consider any public comments to the final report, which may provide additional evidence or emerging data. Based on those comments, together with the agencys report, the TPSAC report, the industrys perspective report and prior public comments, the FDA stated that it will consider the collective evidence and possible actions related to the public health impact of menthol in cigarettes. If the FDA determines that regulation of menthol is warranted, the FDA could promulgate regulations that, among other things, could result in a ban on or restrictions on the use of menthol in cigarettes. Since we are the leading manufacturer of mentholated cigarettes in the United States, we could face increased exposure to tobacco related litigation as a result of such allegations. Even if such claims are unsubstantiated, increased concerns about the health impact of mentholated cigarettes could materially adversely affect our sales, including sales of Newport. A ban or limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes by the FDA would materially adversely affect our business. The regulation of cigarettes by the Food and Drug Administration may materially adversely affect our business. In June 2009, the U.S. Congress passed, and the President signed into law, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act that grants the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products. The legislation: established a Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee to, among other things, evaluate the issues surrounding the use of menthol as a flavoring or ingredient in cigarettes and issue a nonbinding recommendation to the FDA regarding menthol by March 23, 2011; grants the FDA the regulatory authority to consider and impose broad additional restrictions through a rule making process, including a ban on the use of menthol in cigarettes; requires larger and more severe health warnings, including graphic images, on packs, cartons and advertising; bans the use of descriptors on tobacco products, such as low tar and light; 12 Table of Contents requires the disclosure of ingredients and additives to consumers; requires pre market approval by the FDA of all new products, including substantially equivalent products; requires pre market approval by the FDA for claims made with respect to reduced risk or reduced exposure products; allows the FDA to require the reduction of nicotine or any other compound in cigarettes; allows the FDA to mandate the use of reduced risk technologies in conventional cigarettes; allows the FDA to place more severe restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sales of cigarettes; and permits possible inconsistent state and local regulation of the advertising or promotion of cigarettes by providing an exception to certain federal preemption of such regulation. We believe that such regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, under the Act, we must file a report with the FDA substantiating that any cigarettes introduced or modified after February 15, 2007 are substantially equivalent to cigarettes on the market before that date to enable the agency to determine whether the new or modified products are substantially equivalent to specific predicate products already being sold. For any products introduced or modified between February 15, 2007 and March 22, 2011, initial reports were required to be filed with the FDA on or before March 22, 2011. The FDA announced that a product introduced or modified before March 22, 2011 may remain on the market pending the FDAs review, provided a substantially equivalent report was filed with the FDA on or before March 22, 2011. We believe, based on the limited guidance issued by the FDA to date, that we were required to file, and have filed, reports for all of our cigarettes on or before March 22, 2011 since modifications had been made to our products since 2007. While all of our cigarettes may remain on the market pending the FDAs review, they are subject to removal should the FDA determine any are not substantially equivalent. In addition, products introduced on or after March 22, 2011 will require pre market approval by the FDA which may be subject to similar or more restrictive procedures. The legislation also permits the FDA to impose restrictions regarding the use of menthol in cigarettes, including a ban, if those restrictions would be appropriate for the public health. Any ban or material limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. It is possible that such additional regulation, including regulation of menthol short of a ban thereof, could result in a decrease in cigarette sales in the United States (including sales of our brands), increased costs to us and or the development of a significant black market for cigarettes, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. As of February 9, 2012, Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant in approximately 8,562 tobacco related lawsuits, including approximately 683 cases in which Lorillard, Inc. is a co defendant. These cases, which are extremely costly to defend, could result in substantial judgments against Lorillard Tobacco and or Lorillard, Inc. Numerous legal actions, proceedings and claims arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects of cigarettes are pending against Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc., and it is likely that similar claims will continue to be filed for the foreseeable future. In addition, several cases have been filed against Lorillard Tobacco and other tobacco companies challenging certain provisions of the MSA among major tobacco manufacturers and 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions, and state statutes promulgated to carry out and enforce the MSA. Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the billions of dollars, are specifically pleaded in a number of cases in addition to compensatory and other damages. It is possible that the outcome of these cases, individually or in the aggregate, could result in bankruptcy. It is also possible that Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc. may be unable to post a surety bond in an amount sufficient to stay execution of a judgment in jurisdictions that require such bond pending an appeal on the merits of the case. Even if Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc. are successful in defending some or all of these actions, these types of cases are very expensive to defend. A material increase in the number of pending claims could significantly increase defense costs and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, adverse decisions in litigations against other tobacco companies could have an adverse impact on the industry, including us. 13 Table of Contents Plaintiffs have been awarded damages, including punitive damages, from Lorillard Tobacco in a Conventional Product Liability Case. In December 2010, a Massachusetts jury awarded damages, including punitive damages, from Lorillard Tobacco in a Conventional Product Liability Case, Evans v. Lorillard Tobacco Company (Superior Court, Suffolk County, Massachusetts). In September 2011, the court reduced the compensatory damages awarded to the estate of a deceased smoker to $25 million and reduced the award to the deceased smokers son to $10 million. The court declined to reduce the jurys award of $81 million in punitive damages. In September 2011, the court entered a judgment that reflected the jurys damages awards and the courts reductions following trial. The judgment awarded plaintiffs interest on each of the three damages awards at the rate of 12% per year from the date the case was filed in 2004. Interest on the three awards will continue to accrue until either the judgment is paid or is vacated on appeal. The judgment permitted plaintiffs counsel to request an award of attorneys fees and costs. In November 2011, the court granted in part plaintiffs counsels application for attorneys fees and costs and has awarded approximately $2.4 million in fees and approximately $225,000 in costs. The court entered a final judgment that incorporated the amounts of the verdicts, as reduced by the trial court, the awards of interest, and the awards of attorneys fees and costs. Lorillard Tobacco has noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Massachusetts Appeals Court. Plaintiff has asked the court to enter a preliminary injunction that directs Lorillard Tobacco to set aside $272 million in cash or cash equivalents to secure the amounts awarded by the jury and the interest obligations plaintiff expects the court to order in a final judgment. As of February 9, 2012, the court had not ruled on plaintiffs motion for preliminary injunction. It is possible that the verdict in this case could lead to additional litigation. The Florida Supreme Courts ruling in Engle has resulted in additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us. The case of Engle v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al. (Circuit Court, Dade County, Florida, filed May 5, 1994) was certified as a class action on behalf of Florida residents, and survivors of Florida residents, who were injured or died from medical conditions allegedly caused by addiction to smoking. The case was tried between 1998 and 2000 in a multi phase trial that resulted in verdicts in favor of the class. In 2006, the Florida Supreme Court issued a ruling that, among other things, determined that the case could not proceed further as a class action. In February 2008, the trial court entered an order on remand from the Florida Supreme Court that formally decertified the class. The 2006 ruling by the Florida Supreme Court in Engle also permitted members of the Engle class to file individual claims, including claims for punitive damages. The Florida Supreme Court held that these individual plaintiffs are entitled to rely on a number of the jurys findings in favor of the plaintiffs in the first phase of the Engle trial. These findings included that smoking cigarettes causes a number of diseases; that cigarettes are addictive or dependence producing; and that the defendants, including Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc., were negligent, breached express and implied warranties, placed cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous, and concealed or conspired to conceal the risks of smoking. Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant in approximately 5,900 cases pending in various state and federal courts in Florida that were filed by members of the Engle class (the Engle Progeny Cases), including 676 cases in which Lorillard, Inc. is a co defendant. As of February 9, 2012, trial was underway in two Engle Progeny cases in which Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant, the cases of Alexander v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Eleventh Judicial Circuit, Miami Dade County, Florida) and Kaplan v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Seventeenth Judicial Circuit, Broward County, Florida). Lorillard, Inc. is not a defendant in either of these trials. As of February 9, 2012, Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc. are defendants in Engle Progeny Cases that have been placed on courts 2012 trial calendars or in which specific trial dates have been set. Trial schedules are subject to change and it is not possible to predict how many of the Engle Progeny Cases pending against Lorillard Tobacco or Lorillard, Inc. will be tried in 2012. It also is not possible to predict whether some courts will implement procedures that consolidate multiple Engle Progeny Cases for trial. 14 Table of Contents Trials of some of the Engle Progeny cases have resulted in verdicts that have awarded damages from cigarette manufacturers, including us. As of February 9, 2012, plaintiffs in five Engle Progeny Cases were awarded compensatory damages from Lorillard Tobacco. In one of the five cases, plaintiffs were awarded punitive damages from Lorillard Tobacco. In a sixth case, the court awarded damages to the plaintiff from the defendants, including Lorillard Tobacco, following trial. Lorillard, Inc. was not a defendant in any of these six cases. The six cases are listed below in the order in which the verdicts were returned: In Mrozek v. Lorillard Tobacco Company (Circuit Court, Fourth Judicial Circuit, Duval County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiffs a total of $6 million in compensatory damages and $11.3 million in punitive damages. The jury apportioned 35% of the fault for the smokers injuries to the smoker and 65% to Lorillard Tobacco. The final judgment entered by the trial court reflected the jurys verdict and awarded plaintiff $3,900,588 in compensatory damages and $11,300,000 in punitive damages plus 6% annual interest. Lorillard Tobacco has noticed an appeal to the Florida First District Court of Appeal. As of February 9, 2012, the trial court had not ruled on plaintiffs motion for costs and attorneys fees. In Tullo v. R.J. Reynolds, et al. (Circuit Court, Palm Beach County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff a total of $4.5 million in compensatory damages. The jury assessed 45% of the fault to the smoker, 5% to Lorillard Tobacco and 50% to other defendants. The jury did not award punitive damages to the plaintiff. The court entered a final judgment that awarded plaintiff $225,000 in compensatory damages from Lorillard Tobacco plus 6% annual interest. Defendants noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal. The trial court has granted plaintiffs application for costs but it has not awarded an amount. As of February 9, 2012, the trial court had not ruled on plaintiffs motion for costs. In Sulcer v. Lorillard Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Escambia County, Florida), the jury awarded $225,000 in compensatory damages to the plaintiff and it assessed 95% of the fault for the smokers injuries to the smoker with 5% allocated to Lorillard Tobacco. The jury returned a verdict for Lorillard Tobacco as to whether plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages. The court entered a final judgment that incorporated the jurys determination of the parties fault and awarded plaintiff $11,250 in compensatory damages. Lorillard Tobacco paid approximately $246,000 to resolve the damages verdict, costs and fees. Following this payment, Sulcer was concluded. In Jewett v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al. (Circuit Court, Duval County, Florida), the jury awarded the estate of the decedent $692,981 in compensatory damages and awarded the plaintiff $400,000 for loss of companionship. The jury assessed 70% of the responsibility for the decedents injuries to the decedent, 20% to R.J. Reynolds and 10% to Lorillard Tobacco. The jury determined that no punitive damages were warranted. The final judgment entered by the trial court reflected the jurys verdict and awarded plaintiff a total of $109,298 from Lorillard Tobacco plus 6% annual interest. Defendants have noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Florida First District Court of Appeal. As of February 9, 2012, the trial court had not ruled on plaintiffs motion for costs and attorneys fees. In Weingart v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Palm Beach County, Florida), the jury determined that the decedent did not sustain any compensatory damages from the defendants, including Lorillard Tobacco, and it returned a verdict for the defendants that punitive damages were not warranted. The jury assessed 91% of the fault for the decedents injuries to the decedent, 3% to Lorillard Tobacco and 3% to each of the other two defendants. Following trial, the court granted in part a motion by the plaintiff to award damages, and it tentatively awarded plaintiff $150,000 in compensatory damages. The court entered a final judgment that applied the jurys comparative fault determinations to the courts award of compensatory damages. The final judgment awarded plaintiff $4,500 from Lorillard Tobacco. Defendants have noticed an appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal from the order that awarded compensatory damages to the plaintiff and have amended their notice of appeal to address the final judgment. As of February 9, 2012, the trial court had not ruled on plaintiffs motion for costs and attorneys fees. In Sury v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al., (Circuit Court, Duval County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff $1,000,000 in compensatory damages and assessed 60% of the responsibility for the decedents injuries to the decedent, 20% to Lorillard Tobacco and 20% to R.J. Reynolds. The jury returned a verdict for the defendants regarding whether punitive damages were warranted. As of February 9, 2012, the court has not yet entered a final judgment and had not ruled on defendants motion to set aside the verdict. 15 Table of Contents As of February 9, 2012, verdicts have been returned in 50 Engle Progeny Cases in which neither Lorillard Tobacco nor Lorillard, Inc. were defendants since the Florida Supreme Court issued its 2006 ruling. Juries awarded compensatory damages and punitive damages in 20 of these trials. The punitive damages awards have totaled approximately $600 million and have ranged from $50,000 to $244 million. In 12 of the trials, juries awarded only compensatory damages. In the 18 other trials, juries found in favor of the defendants. In some of the trials decided in the defendants favor, plaintiffs have filed motions challenging the verdicts. It is not possible to predict the final outcome of this litigation. Two Florida intermediate courts of appeal have affirmed verdicts awarding damages to the plaintiffs in seven Engle Progeny Cases as of February 9, 2012. The Florida Supreme Court denied review of four of these cases and the defendants have petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court. As of February 9, 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court had not determined whether to grant review of these four petitions. The defendant in another case has sought review by the Florida Supreme Court. As of February 9, 2012, the Florida Supreme Court had not announced whether it would review this case. Neither Lorillard Tobacco nor Lorillard, Inc. is a defendant in any of the seven cases in which the two Florida intermediate appellate courts affirmed the verdicts awarding damages to the plaintiffs. The judgment entered in the federal governments reimbursement case, while not final in all respects, could restrict or limit our defenses in other litigation. In August 2006, a final judgment and remedial order was entered in United States of America v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al. (U.S. District Court, District of Columbia, filed September 22, 1999). The court based its final judgment and remedial order on the governments only remaining claims, which were based on the defendants alleged violations of the Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO). Lorillard, Inc. is not a party to this matter, but Lorillard Tobacco is one of the defendants in the case. Although the verdict did not award monetary damages to the plaintiff, the final judgment and remedial order imposed a number of requirements on the defendants. Such requirements include, but are not limited to, the publishing of corrective statements by defendants related to the health effects of smoking. In 2009, a three judge panel of the Court of Appeals upheld substantially all of the District Courts final judgment and remedial order. In June 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the parties petitions seeking review of the case. The case has been returned to the U.S. District Court, District of Columbia for implementation of the Court of Appeals directions in its 2009 ruling and for entry of an amended final judgment. As of February 9, 2012, the trial court had not entered the amended final judgment. The 2006 final judgment and remedial order made many adverse findings regarding the conduct of the defendants. It is possible that the final opinion, final judgment and remedial order entered by the court could form the basis of allegations by the plaintiffs in other matters, or of additional judicial findings by other courts against cigarette manufacturers. It is possible that other courts could apply the findings in the United States of America case to restrict or otherwise limit our defenses in other litigation. A ruling by the United States Supreme Court could limit the ability of cigarette manufacturers to contend that certain claims asserted against them in product liability litigation are barred. The Supreme Courts decision also could encourage litigation involving cigarettes labeled as lights or low tar. In December 2008, the United States Supreme Court issued a decision that neither the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act nor the Federal Trade Commissions regulation of cigarettes tar and nicotine disclosures preempts (or bars) some of plaintiffs claims. The decision also more broadly addresses the scope of preemption based on the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, and could significantly limit cigarette manufacturers arguments that certain of plaintiffs other claims in smoking and health litigation, including claims based on the alleged concealment of information with respect to the hazards of smoking, are preempted. In addition, the Supreme Courts ruling could encourage litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us, regarding the sale of cigarettes labeled as lights or low tar, and it may limit cigarette manufacturers ability to defend such claims. The Supreme Court issued this ruling in a purported lights class action, Good v. Altria Group, Inc. We were not a defendant in Good. 16 Table of Contents The U.S. Surgeon General has issued a report regarding the risks of cigarette smoking to non smokers that could result in additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, additional restrictions placed on the use of cigarettes, and additional regulations placed on the manufacture or sale of cigarettes. In a report entitled The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke: A Report of the Surgeon General, 2006, the U.S. Surgeon General summarized conclusions from previous Surgeon Generals reports concerning the health effects of exposure to second hand smoke by non smokers. According to this report, scientific evidence now supports six major conclusions: Second hand smoke causes premature death and disease in children and in adults who do not smoke. Children exposed to second hand smoke are at an increased risk for sudden infant death syndrome, acute respiratory infections and ear problems. Exposure of adults to second hand smoke has immediate adverse effects on the cardiovascular system and causes heart disease and lung cancer. The scientific evidence indicates that there is no risk free level of exposure to second hand smoke. Many millions of Americans, both children and adults, are exposed to second hand smoke in their homes and workplaces. Eliminating smoking in indoor spaces fully protects non smokers from exposure to second hand smoke. Separating smokers from non smokers, cleaning the air, and ventilating buildings cannot eliminate exposures of non smokers to second hand smoke. This report could form the basis of additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us. The report has been and in the future could be used to support existing litigation against us or other cigarette manufacturers. It also is possible that the Surgeon Generals report could result in additional restrictions placed on cigarette smoking or in additional regulations placed on the manufacture or sale of cigarettes. It is possible that such additional restrictions or regulations could result in a decrease in cigarette sales in the United States, including sales of our brands. These developments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We have substantial payment obligations under the State SettlementAgreements which will have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and operating income in future periods. In 1998, Lorillard Tobacco, Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco) (the Original Participating Manufacturers) entered into the MSA with 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. We and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (the Initial State Settlements and, together with the MSA, are referred to as the State Settlement Agreements). Under the State Settlement Agreements, we paid $1.219 billion in 2011 and estimate that we will pay between $1.350 billion and $1.400 billion in 2012, primarily based on 2011 estimated industry volume. Annual payments under the State Settlement Agreements are required to be paid in perpetuity and are based, among other things, on our domestic market share and unit volume of domestic shipments, with respect to the MSA, in the year preceding the year in which payment is due, and, with respect to the Initial State Settlements, in the year in which payment is due. In the fourth quarter 2011, RAI, the parent of RJR Tobacco, announced a change to a mark to market pension accounting method. Such method of accounting for pension and postretirement benefits results in the recognition of actuarial gains and losses on pension and postretirement plan assets or benefit obligations in the year it is incurred rather than amortized over the average future service period of the active employees in such plans. Amounts due under the State Settlement Agreements are impacted by a number of factors, including industry volume, market share and industry operating profits. As a result of the change to mark to market pension accounting announced by RAI, the industry operating profits as defined in the State Settlement Agreements may be impacted positively or negatively in any given year. For example, in 2011 RAIs mark to market pension adjustment resulted in a $3 million reduction in our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements. It is possible that our State Settlement Agreement obligations, results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be materially adversely affected by RAIs mark to market adjustments in the future. 17 Table of Contents We are unable to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of certain material pending litigation. We record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Except for the impact of the State Settlement Agreements as described above, while it is reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, (i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any material pending litigation against us, (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any material pending litigation due to the many variables, uncertainties and complexities surrounding pending litigation, and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for possible losses related to material pending litigation. It is possible that our results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period or its financial position could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending or future litigation or an inability to secure bonds where required to stay the execution of judgments on appeal. We may not be able to develop, produce or commercialize competitive new products and technologies required by regulatory changes or changes in consumer preferences. Consumer health concerns and changes in regulations are likely to require us to introduce new products or make substantial changes to existing products. For example, all 50 states and the District of Columbia have passed legislation requiring cigarette manufacturers to reduce the ignition propensity of their products. We believe that there may be increasing pressure from public health authorities to develop a conventional cigarette, an alternative cigarette or an alternative tobacco product that provides a demonstrable reduced risk of adverse health effects. Certain of the other major cigarette makers have already developed and marketed alternative cigarette products. We may not be able to develop a reduced risk product that is acceptable to consumers. In addition, the costs associated with developing any such new products and technologies could be substantial. We face intense competition and our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, service, marketing, advertising and price. We are subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of our business. The competitive environment and our competitive position can be significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, erosion of consumer confidence, competitors introduction of low priced products or innovative products, higher cigarette taxes, higher absolute prices and larger gaps between price categories, and product regulation that diminishes the ability to differentiate tobacco products. Our principal competitors are the two other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, Philip Morris and RJR Tobacco. We also compete against numerous other smaller manufacturers or importers of cigarettes. If our major competitors were to significantly increase the level of price discounts offered to consumers, we could respond by increasing price discounts, which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. We are subject to important limitations on advertising and marketing cigarettes that could harm our competitive position. Television and radio advertisements of tobacco products have been prohibited since 1971. Under the State Settlement Agreements, we generally cannot use billboard advertising, cartoon characters, sponsorship of concerts, non tobacco merchandise bearing Lorillards brand names and various other advertising and marketing techniques. In addition, the MSA prohibits the targeting of youth in advertising, promotion or marketing of tobacco products. Accordingly, we have determined not to advertise our cigarettes in magazines with large readership among people under the age of 18. On June 22, 2009 the federal Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act was signed into law granting authority over the regulation of tobacco products to the FDA. Pursuant to the FSPTCA, the FDA reissued a set of marketing and sales restrictions originally promulgated in 1995 as part of an unsuccessful effort by the agency to assert jurisdiction over tobacco products. The FSPTCA contains other restrictions on the advertising, 18 Table of Contents marketing and sale of cigarette products more stringent than those found in the original FDA rule. In addition, many states, cities and counties have enacted legislation or regulations further restricting tobacco advertising, marketing and sales promotions, and others may do so in the future. Additional restrictions may be imposed or agreed to in the future. These limitations may make it difficult to maintain the value of an existing brand if sales or market share decline for any reason. Moreover, these limitations significantly impair the ability of cigarette manufacturers, including us, to launch new premium brands. Changes in laws, regulations and other requirements could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition to the regulation of our business by the FDA, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected by new or future legal requirements imposed by legislative or regulatory initiatives, including but not limited to those relating to health care reform, climate change and environmental matters. For example, the health care reform legislation, which was signed into law in March 2010, resulted in the repeal of $2 million of future tax deductions for Medicare Part D subsidies for our retiree drug benefits and could impact our accounting for retiree medical benefits, employer sponsored medical plans and related matters in future periods. However, the extent of that impact, if any, cannot be determined until regulations are promulgated and additional interpretations of the health care law are available. New legislation or regulations may result in increased costs directly for our compliance or indirectly to the extent such requirements increase the prices of goods and services because of increased costs or reduced availability. We cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory initiatives will result in significant changes to existing laws and regulations and or whether any changes in such laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Sales of cigarettes are subject to substantial federal, state and local excise taxes. The federal excise tax on cigarettes was last increased on April 1, 2009 from $0.6166 per pack to $1.0066 per pack to finance health insurance for children. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, combined state and local excise taxes ranged from $0.17 to $5.85 per pack. Various states and localities have raised the excise tax on cigarettes substantially in recent years. During 2011, state excise tax increases on cigarette sales were implemented in three states and the District of Columbia ranging from $0.20 per pack to $0.40 per pack and one state excise tax decrease of $0.10 per pack in New Hampshire. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, the combined state and municipal taxes ranged from $0.17 to $5.85 per pack of cigarettes. It is our expectation that several states will propose further increases in 2012 and in subsequent years. We believe that increases in excise and similar taxes have had an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes. In addition, we believe that the 2009 increase in the federal excise tax, as well as possible future increases, the extent of which cannot be predicted, compounded by poor economic conditions, could result in further volume declines for the cigarette industry, including us, and an increased sales shift toward lower priced discount cigarettes rather than premium brands. We are dependent on the domestic cigarette business, which we expect to continue to contract. Although we conduct business in Puerto Rico, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands, our cigarette business in the 50 states of the United States (the domestic cigarette market) is currently our only significant business. The domestic cigarette market has generally been contracting and we expect it to continue to contract. We do not have foreign cigarette sales that could offset these effects, as we sold the international rights to substantially all of our brands, including Newport, in 1977. As a result of price increases, restrictions on advertising and promotions, increases in regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, increased pressure from anti tobacco groups and other factors, industry wide domestic cigarette shipments have decreased at a compound annual rate of approximately 3.6% during the period 2001 through 2011. Industry wide domestic cigarette shipments decreased by an estimated 3.5% for 2011 compared to 2010, 3.8% for 2010 compared to 2009, 8.6% for 2009 compared to 2008 and 3.3% for 2008 compared to 2007. We derive most of our revenue from one brand. Our largest selling brand, Newport, accounted for approximately 88.4% of our net sales for 2011. Our principal strategic plan revolves around the marketing and sales promotion in support of the Newport brand. We cannot ensure that we will continue to successfully implement our strategic plan with respect to Newport or that implementation of our strategic plan will result in the maintenance or growth of the Newport brand. 19 Table of Contents The use of significant amounts of promotion expenses and sales incentives in response to competitive actions and market price sensitivity may have a material adverse impact on our business. Since 1998, the cigarette market has been increasingly price competitive due to the impact of, among other things, higher state and local excise taxes and the market share of deep discount brands. In response to these and other competitor actions and pricing pressures, we have engaged in significant use of promotional expenses and sales incentives. The cost of these measures could have a material adverse impact on our business. We regularly review the results of our promotional spending activities and adjust our promotional spending programs in an effort to maintain our competitive position. Accordingly, unit sales volume and sales promotion costs in any period are not necessarily indicative of sales and costs that may be realized in subsequent periods. We rely on a limited number of key executives and may continue to experience difficulty in attracting and hiring qualified new personnel in some areas of our business. The loss of any of our key employees could adversely affect our business. As a tobacco company, we may experience difficulty in identifying and hiring qualified executives and other personnel in some areas of our business. This difficulty is primarily attributable to the health and social issues associated with the tobacco industry. The loss of services of any key personnel or our inability to attract and hire personnel with requisite skills could restrict our ability to develop new products, enhance existing products in a timely manner, sell products or manage our business effectively. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Increased restrictions on smoking in public places could adversely affect our sales volume, revenue and profitability. In recent years, states and many local and municipal governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, have adopted legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit, restrict, or discourage smoking; smoking in public buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars; and smoking on airline flights and in the workplace. Other similar laws and regulations are currently under consideration and may be enacted by state and local governments in the future. Although we have no empirical evidence of the effect of such restrictions, we believe that restrictions on smoking in public and other places may lead to a decrease in the number of people who smoke or a decrease in the number of cigarettes smoked by smokers. Increased restrictions on smoking in public and other places may have caused a decrease, and may continue to cause a decrease in the volume of cigarettes that would otherwise be sold by us absent such restrictions, which may have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits. We rely on a single manufacturing facility for the production of our cigarettes. We produce all of our cigarettes at our Greensboro, North Carolina manufacturing facility. If our manufacturing plant is damaged, destroyed or incapacitated or we are otherwise unable to operate our manufacturing facility, we may be unable to produce cigarettes and may be unable to meet customer demand which could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits. We rely on a small number of suppliers for certain of our domestic leaf tobacco and reconstituted tobacco. We purchased approximately 70% of our domestic leaf tobacco through one supplier in 2009, 2010 and 2011, Alliance One International, Inc. (Alliance One). If Alliance One becomes unwilling or unable to supply leaf tobacco to us, we believe that leaf tobacco may not be available at prices comparable to those we pay to Alliance One, which could have a material adverse effect on our future profits. In addition, we purchase all of our reconstituted tobacco from one supplier, which is an affiliate of RAI, one of our major competitors. Reconstituted tobacco is a form of tobacco material manufactured as a paper like sheet from small pieces of tobacco that are too small to incorporate into the cigarette directly and may include some tobacco stems, and which is used as a component of cigarette blends. If RAI becomes unwilling or unable to supply us and we are unable to find an alternative supplier on a timely basis, our operations could be disrupted resulting in lower production levels and reduced sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits in the future. 20 Table of Contents The availability of counterfeit cigarettes could adversely affect our sales volume, revenue and profitability. Sales of counterfeit cigarettes in the United States, including counterfeits of our Newport brand, could adversely impact sales by the manufacturers of the brands that are counterfeited and potentially damage the value and reputation of those brands. Additionally, smokers who mistake counterfeit cigarettes for our cigarettes may attribute quality and taste deficiencies in the counterfeit product to our brands and discontinue purchasing our brands. Although we do not believe that sales of counterfeit Newport cigarettes have had a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits to date, the availability of counterfeit Newport cigarettes together with the potential regulation of cigarettes and their ingredients, substantial increases in excise taxes and other potential price increases could result in increased demand for counterfeit product that could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits in the future. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. Our ability to maintain and further build brand recognition is dependent on the continued and exclusive use of our trademarks, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logo and the unique features of our tobacco products. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are ineffective, thereby permitting a third party to misappropriate or infringe on our intellectual property, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and might prevent our brands from growing or maintaining market share. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by laws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our Common Stock. Our certificate of incorporation and by laws contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include: a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; elimination of the right of our shareholders to act by written consent; rules regarding how our shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding Common Stock. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our board with time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to prevent such takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in our best interests and those of our shareholders. The Separation Agreement between us and Loews contains provisions that may prevent or discourage other companies from acquiring us. The tax free nature of the Separation may be affected by certain transactions undertaken by us. In particular, under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Separation would become taxable to Loews if it was determined that 50% or more of the shares of our Common Stock were acquired, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Separation. If, as a result of acquisitions of our Common Stock subsequent to the Separation, the Separation becomes taxable pursuant to Section 355(e), Loews would recognize 21 Table of Contents a substantial gain for tax purposes as the Separation would be treated as a sale of Lorillard for federal income tax purposes. The Separation Agreement requires us (and any successor entity) to indemnify Loews for any losses resulting from the failure of the Separation to qualify as a tax free transaction (except if the failure to qualify is solely due to Loewss fault). This indemnification obligation applies regardless of whether the action is restricted as described above, or whether we or a potential acquirer obtains a supplemental ruling or an opinion of counsel. These restrictions and potential indemnification obligations may prevent or discourage other companies from acquiring us. We are required to indemnify Loews against losses and other expenses incurred at any time (including with respect to smoking and health claims and litigation) with respect to our assets, properties and businesses. In the Separation Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify Loews and its officers, directors, employees and agents against costs and expenses (including, but not limited to, litigation matters and other claims) based on, arising out of or resulting from, among other things, the ownership or the operation of us and our assets and properties, and the operation or conduct of us and our businesses at any time prior to or following the Separation (including with respect to smoking and health claims and litigation). If Loews incurs legal or other fees or costs and expenses resulting from the operation of our businesses or otherwise with respect to us, we are required to reimburse Loews for such losses and any legal or other fees related thereto, which could be substantial. These indemnification obligations may discourage third parties from trying to acquire us because our indemnification obligations are binding on our successors and we are prohibited by the Separation Agreement from merging, consolidating or transferring all or a significant portion of our properties or assets unless the resulting entity, transferee or successor agrees to be bound by these indemnification obligations. In addition, we could face substantial charges for indemnification payments to Loews, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We do not believe the Separation has altered or will alter our legal exposure with respect to tobacco related claims. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 2. PROPERTIES Our manufacturing facility is located on approximately 80 acres in Greensboro, North Carolina. This 854,300 square foot plant contains modern high speed cigarette manufacturing machinery. The Greensboro facility also includes a warehouse with shipping and receiving areas totaling 187,300 square feet. In addition, we own tobacco receiving and storage facilities totaling approximately 1,400,000 square feet in Danville, Virginia. Our executive offices are located in a 130,000 square foot, four story office building in Greensboro. Our 93,800 square foot research facility is also located in Greensboro. Our principal properties are owned in fee and generally we own all of the machinery we use. We believe that our properties and machinery are in generally good condition. We lease sales offices in major cities throughout the United States, a cold storage facility in Greensboro and warehousing space in 18 public distribution warehouses located throughout the United States. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Information regarding legal proceedings is set forth in Note 19 Legal Proceedings to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report. The disclosure set forth in Note 19 Legal Proceedings is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None. 22 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASE OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Our Common Stock began trading regular way on the NYSE under the symbol LO on June 10, 2008. There were 73 shareholders of record as of February 15, 2012. This figure excludes any estimate of the indeterminate number of beneficial holders whose shares may be held of record by brokerage firms and clearing agencies. The following table presents the high and low sales prices of our Common Stock on the NYSE as well as cash dividends declared per share during the fiscal quarters indicated: Common Stock Market Price Price per Share Cash DividendsDeclared High Low Per Share 2011 Fourth Quarter $ 120.00 $ 106.46 $ 1.30 Third Quarter 113.67 97.38 1.30 Second Quarter 116.90 94.44 1.30 First Quarter 97.04 72.40 1.30 2010 Fourth Quarter $ 89.71 $ 78.54 $ 1.125 Third Quarter 83.03 70.87 1.125 Second Quarter 82.26 70.24 1.00 First Quarter 81.74 72.07 1.00 Dividend Policy Lorillards current policy is to return approximately 70 75% of its earnings to shareholders in the form of dividends over the long term. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our Common Stock will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our business, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, and other factors that the Board of Directors may deem relevant. As a holding company with no material liquid assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries, our ability to pay dividends is dependent on the receipt of dividends from our operating subsidiaries. In 2011, we paid cash dividends of $188 million, $185 million, $177 million and $173 million on March 11, 2011, June 10, 2011, September 12, 2011 and December 12, 2011, respectively. In 2010, we paid cash dividends of $155 million, $152 million, $171 million and $167 million on March 11, 2010, June 11, 2010, September 10, 2010 and December 13, 2010, respectively. In 2009, we paid cash dividends of $155 million, $155 million, $163 million and $158 million on March 12, 2009, June 12, 2009, September 11, 2009 and December 11, 2009, respectively. We expect to continue to pay cash dividends on our Common Stock. 23 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our Common Stock from June 10, 2008, the date our Common Stock commenced trading on a when issued basis, to December 31, 2011 with the comparable cumulative return of (i) the S&P 500 Index and (ii) the S&P Tobacco Index. The graph assumes $100 was invested on June 10, 2008 in our Common Stock and in each of the indices and assumes that all cash dividends are reinvested. The table below the graph shows the dollar value of those investments as of the dates in the graph. The comparisons in the graph are required by the SEC and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of future performance of our Common Stock. 06/10/08 06/30/08 12/31/08 06/30/09 12/31/09 06/30/10 12/31/10 06/30/11 12/31/11 Lorillard Common Stock 100.00 90.25 75.59 93.59 113.75 104.84 122.96 167.76 179.85 S&P 500 Index 100.00 94.23 66.49 67.67 82.09 75.87 92.58 97.22 92.58 S&P 500 Tobacco Index 100.00 97.77 83.79 86.48 99.21 95.97 120.09 136.12 156.21 The performance graph and related information above shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers In the fourth quarter of 2011, we repurchased the following number of shares of our Common Stock: (In millions, except for per share amounts) TotalNumberof SharesPurchased AveragePricePaid PerShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlansor Programs ApproximateDollar ValueofShares thatMay Yet BePurchasedUnder thePlansor Programs October 1, 2011 October 31, 2011 0.9 $ 114.41 0.9 $ 452 November 1, 2011 November 30, 2011 1.3 $ 108.84 1.3 $ 306 December 1, 2011 December 31, 2011 1.1 $ 110.82 1.1 $ 187 Total 3.3 $ 110.98 3.3 24 Table of Contents The shares repurchased were acquired under the share repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors on August 12, 2011 for a maximum of $750 million. All repurchases were made in open market transactions. We record the repurchase of shares of Common Stock at cost based on the transaction date of the repurchase. As of December 31, 2011, the maximum dollar value of shares that could yet be purchased under the August 12, 2011 repurchase program was $187 million. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table includes our selected historical consolidated financial information as of the dates and for the periods indicated. The selected historical consolidated financial information as of and for the years ended December 31, 2007 through 2011 have been derived from our audited financial statements. You should read the following selected historical consolidated financial data in conjunction with Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing herein. Years Ended December 31, (In millions, except per share data) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Results of Operations: Net sales (1) $ 6,466 $ 5,932 $ 5,233 $ 4,204 $ 3,969 Cost of sales (1) 4,123 3,809 3,327 2,434 2,313 Gross profit 2,343 2,123 1,906 1,770 1,656 Selling, general and administrative (2) 451 398 365 355 382 Operating income (3) 1,892 1,725 1,541 1,415 1,274 Investment income (4) 3 4 5 20 109 Interest expense (125 ) (94 ) (27 ) (1 ) Income before income taxes 1,770 1,635 1,519 1,434 1,383 Income taxes 654 606 571 547 485 Net income $ 1,116 $ 1,029 $ 948 $ 887 $ 898 Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding 139.35 151.79 164.62 172.21 173.92 Diluted earnings per share $ 7.99 $ 6.78 $ 5.76 $ 5.15 $ 5.16 Dividends per share $ 5.20 $ 4.25 $ 3.84 $ 4.67 $ 6.72 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 15.2 18.4 57.3 N/M N/M (1) Includes excise taxes of $2,014, $1,879, $1,547, $712 and $688 million, respectively. (2) 2008 included expenses of $18 million related to the Separation of Lorillard from Loews and 2007 included a $66 million charge related to litigation. (3) 2011 includes a favorable impact on tobacco settlement expense of $25 million resulting from a competitors adoption of mark to market pension accounting in the fourth quarter of 2011. Tobacco settlement expenses are impacted by a number of factors including industry profits, which were significantly reduced in the fourth quarter by the competitors accounting change. See further discussion under Results of Operations in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. (4) Includes interest income of $3, $4, $5, $21 and $75 million and income (loss) from limited partnership investments of $0, $0, $0, ($1) and $34 million, respectively. December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Financial Position: Current assets $ 2,564 $ 2,935 $ 2,181 $ 1,962 $2,103 Total assets 3,008 3,296 2,575 2,321 2,600 Current liabilities 1,485 1,426 1,337 1,273 1,188 Long term debt 2,595 1,769 722 Total liabilities 4,521 3,521 2,488 1,690 1,587 Shareholders equity (deficit) (1,513 ) (225 ) 87 631 1,013 25 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements, the notes related to those financial statements and Item 6. Selected Financial Data appearing herein. In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward looking statements based on current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results and the timing of certain events may differ significantly from those projected in such forward looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth in the Forward Looking Statements, Item 1A. Risk Factors, Business Environment and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The financial statements include our subsidiaries after the elimination of intercompany accounts and transactions. The consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, applied on a consistent basis. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. Significant estimates in the consolidated financial statements and related notes include: (1) accruals for tobacco settlement costs, legal expenses and litigation costs, sales incentive programs, income taxes and share based compensation, (2) the determination of discount and other rate assumptions for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit expenses and (3) the valuation of pension assets. In general, our estimates are based on historical experience, evaluation of current trends, information from third party professionals and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the known facts and circumstances at the time. We consider the accounting policies discussed below to be critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements as their application places the most significant demands on managements judgment. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved with this type of judgment, actual results could differ significantly from estimates and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and equity. Revenue Recognition Revenue from product sales, net of sales incentives, is recognized at the time ownership of the goods transfers to customers and collectability is reasonably assured. Federal excise taxes are recognized on a gross basis and are included in both sales and cost of sales. Sales incentives include retail price discounts, coupons and retail display allowances and are recorded as a reduction of revenue based on amounts estimated as due to customers and consumers at the end of a period based primarily on use and redemption rates. Tobacco Settlement Costs In 1998, Lorillard Tobacco, Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco) (the Original Participating Manufacturers) entered into the MSA with 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. We and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (which are referred to as the Initial State Settlements, and together with the MSA, are referred to as the State Settlement Agreements). Our portion of ongoing adjusted settlement payments and legal fees is based on our relative share of the settling manufacturers domestic cigarette shipments, with respect to the MSA, in the year preceding that in which the payment is due, and, with respect to the Initial State Settlements, in the year in which payment is due. We record our portion of ongoing adjusted settlement payments as part of cost of sales as product is shipped. Please read State Settlement Agreements beginning on page 37 for additional information. 26 Table of Contents Tobacco and Other Litigation We and other cigarette manufacturers continue to be confronted with substantial litigation. Plaintiffs in most of the cases seek unspecified amounts of compensatory damages and punitive damages, although some seek damages ranging into the billions of dollars. Plaintiffs in some of the cases seek treble damages, statutory damages, return of profits, equitable and injunctive relief, and medical monitoring, among other damages. We believe that we have valid defenses to the cases pending against us. We also believe we have valid bases for appeal of the adverse verdicts against us. While we intend to defend vigorously all tobacco products liability litigation, it is not possible to predict the outcome of any of this litigation. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these actions could be decided unfavorably. We may enter into discussions in an attempt to settle particular cases if we believe it is appropriate to do so. We establish accruals in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 450, Contingencies (ASC 450), when a material litigation liability is both probable and can be reasonably estimated. There are a number of factors impacting our ability to estimate the possible loss or a range of loss, including the specific facts of each matter; the legal theories proffered by plaintiffs and legal defenses available to us; the wide ranging outcomes reached in similar cases; differing procedural and substantive laws in the various jurisdictions in which lawsuits have been filed, including whether punitive damages may be pursued or are permissible; the degree of specificity in a plaintiffs complaint; the history of the case and whether discovery has been completed; plaintiffs history of use of our cigarettes relative to those of the other defendants; the attribution of damages, if any, among multiple defendants; the application of contributory and or comparative negligence to the allocation of damage awards among plaintiffs and defendants; the likelihood of settlements for de minimus amounts prior to trial; the likelihood of success at trial; the likelihood of success on appeal; and the impact of current and pending state and federal appellate decisions. It has been our experience and is our continued expectation that the above complexities and uncertainties will not be clarified until the late stages of litigation. For those reasonably possible loss contingencies for which an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss cannot be made, we disclose the nature of the litigation and any developments as appropriate. We monitor the status of all outstanding litigation on an ongoing basis in order to determine the probability of loss and assess whether an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss can be determined. In evaluating litigation, we consider, among other things, the nature of the claims; the jurisdiction in which the claims have been filed and the law and case law developed in that jurisdiction; the experience of plaintiffs counsel in this type of litigation; the parties respective litigation strategies; the stage of the proceedings; the outcome of the matters at trial or on appeal; the type and amount of damages claimed by plaintiffs; the outcomes and damage awards, if any, for similar matters brought against us and or the tobacco industry; and the possibility and likelihood of success on appeal. Our assessment of a possible loss or range of loss is based on our assessment of the final outcome of the litigation upon the conclusion of all appeals. We record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Except for the impact of the State Settlement Agreements as described above, while it is reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, (i) we have concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any material pending litigation against us, (ii) we are unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any material pending litigation due to the many variables, uncertainties and complexities described above, and (iii) accordingly, we have not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for possible losses related to material pending litigation. It is possible that our results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period or its financial position could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending or future litigation or an inability to secure bonds where required to stay the execution of judgments on appeal. Defense costs associated with product liability claims are a significant component of our selling, general and administrative expenses and are accrued as incurred. Defense costs may increase in future periods, in part, as a result of the Engle Progeny Cases as described in Note 19, Legal Proceedings, to our consolidated financial statements beginning on page 73. Numerous factors affect product liability defense costs in any given period. The principal factors are as follows: the number and types of cases filed and appealed; 27 Table of Contents the number of cases tried and appealed; the development of the law; the application of new or different theories of liability by plaintiffs and their counsel; and litigation strategy and tactics. Please read Note 19 Legal Proceedings, to our consolidated financial statements beginning on page 73 for detailed information regarding tobacco litigation affecting us. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations We are required to make a significant number of assumptions in order to estimate the liabilities and costs related to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to employees under our benefit plans. The assumptions that have the most impact on pension costs are the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets and the expected rate of compensation increases. These assumptions are evaluated relative to current market factors such as inflation, interest rates and fiscal and monetary policies. Changes in these assumptions can have a material impact on pension obligations and pension expense. In determining the discount rate assumption, we utilized current market information and liability information, including a discounted cash flow analysis of our pension and postretirement obligations. In particular, the basis for our discount rate selection was the yield on indices of highly rated fixed income debt securities with durations comparable to that of our plan liabilities. The discount rate was determined by projecting the plans expected future benefit payments as defined for the projected benefit obligation, discounting those expected payments using a theoretical zero coupon spot yield curve derived from a universe of high quality bonds as of the measurement date, and solving for the single equivalent discount rate that resulted in the same projected benefit obligation. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience and future and near term outlook. Long term return on plan assets is determined based on historical portfolio results, asset allocations and managements expectation of the future economic environment. Our major assumptions are set forth in Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 56. For 2011, hypothetical changes in the assumptions we used for the pension plans would have had the following impact on our pension expense: A decrease of 25 basis points in the long term rate of return would have increased our pension expense by approximately $2.4 million; A decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate would have increased our pension expense by approximately $2.6 million; and An increase of 25 basis points in the future salary growth rate would have increased our net pension expense by approximately $0.8 million. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with Accounting Standard Codification Topic 740 Income Taxes. Under ASC 740, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions. The uncertain tax provisions of ASC 740 prescribe a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Additionally, ASC 740 provides guidance on the measurement, derecognition, classification and disclosure of tax positions, along with accounting for the related interest and penalties. 28 Table of Contents Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost, determined on a last in, first out (LIFO) basis, or market. The inventory of leaf tobacco is classified as a current asset in accordance with generally recognized trade practice although, due to the duration of the aging processes, a significant portion of the tobacco on hand will not be sold or used within one year. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please read Recently adopted accounting pronouncements in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 46. Business Environment Participants in the U.S. tobacco industry, including us, face a number of issues that have adversely affected their results of operations and financial condition in the past and will continue to do so, including: A substantial volume of litigation seeking compensatory and punitive damages ranging into the billions of dollars, as well as equitable and injunctive relief, arising out of allegations of cancer and other health effects resulting from the use of cigarettes, addiction to smoking or exposure to environmental tobacco smoke, including claims for economic damages relating to alleged misrepresentation concerning the use of descriptors such as lights, as well as other alleged damages. Substantial annual payments continuing in perpetuity, and significant restrictions on marketing and advertising have been agreed to and are required under the terms of certain settlement agreements, including the Master Settlement Agreement among major tobacco manufacturers and 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions (the MSA) that we entered into in 1998 along with Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco) (the other Original Participating Manufacturers) to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. We and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (the Initial State Settlements, and together with the MSA, the State Settlement Agreements). The State Settlement Agreements impose a stream of future payment obligations on us and on the other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers as product is sold and place significant restrictions on our and their ability to market and sell cigarettes. The domestic cigarette market, in which we conduct our only significant business, continues to contract. As a result of price increases, restrictions on advertising, promotions and smoking in public and private facilities, increases in regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, increased pressure from anti tobacco groups and other factors, domestic cigarette shipments have decreased at a compound rate of approximately 3.6% from 2001 through 2011. Increases in cigarette prices since 1998 have led to an increase in the volume of discount and, specifically, deep discount cigarettes. Cigarette price increases have been driven by increases in federal, state and local excise taxes and by manufacturer price increases. Price increases have led, and continue to lead, to high levels of discounting and other promotional activities for premium brands. Deep discount brands have grown from an estimated domestic shipment share in 1998 of less than 2.0% to an estimated share of 13.9% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, and continue to be a significant competitive factor in the domestic cigarette market. We do not have sufficient empirical data to determine whether the increased price of cigarettes has deterred consumers from starting to smoke or encouraged them to quit smoking, but it is likely that increased prices may have had an adverse effect on consumption and may continue to do so. The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasing regulation. In June 2009, the U.S. Congress passed, and the President signed into law, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the FSPTCA) granting the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products. Pursuant to the terms of the FSPTCA, the FDA established the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee (the TPSAC) to evaluate, among other things, the impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health. In March 2011, the TPSAC issued its report to the FDA stating that removal of menthol cigarettes from the marketplace would benefit public health. On July 21, 2011, TPSAC considered revisions 29 Table of Contents to its report, and the voting members unanimously approved the final report for submission to the FDA with no change in its recommendation. The FDA could promulgate regulations that, among other things, could result in a ban on or restrict the use of menthol in cigarettes. The law imposes and will impose new restrictions on the manner in which cigarettes can be advertised and marketed, requires larger and more severe health warnings on cigarette packaging, permits restriction of the level of tar and nicotine contained in or yielded by cigarettes and may alter the way cigarette products are developed and manufactured. On June 27, 2011, the FDA provided a progress report on its review of the science related to menthol cigarettes. In its Menthol Update, the FDA stated that [e]xperts within the FDA Center for Tobacco Products are conducting an independent review of the science related to the impact [of menthol] in cigarettes on public health The FDA also stated that it will submit its draft independent review of menthol science to an external peer review panel in July 2011, and that following the peer review period (originally announced as three and one half months), the FDA will make available the results of the peer review and its preliminary scientific assessment for public comment. On January 26, 2012, the FDA stated that its report had been submitted to the peer review panel and comments had been received from the panel on the report. The FDA also indicated that its final report, including the peer review comments, will be released for public comment at a future date. In August 2009, we, along with RJR Tobacco, other tobacco manufacturers and a tobacco retailer, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky against the FDA challenging the constitutionality of certain restrictions on speech included in the FSPTCA. These restrictions on speech include, among others, bans on the use of color and graphics in certain tobacco product advertising, limits on the right to make truthful statements regarding modified risk tobacco products, a prohibition on making certain statements about the FDAs regulation of tobacco products, restrictions on the placement of outdoor advertising, a ban on certain promotions offering gifts in consideration for the purchase of tobacco products, a ban on brand name sponsorship of events and the sale of brand name merchandise, and a ban on the distribution of product samples. The suit also challenges the laws requirement for extensive graphic warning labels on all packaging and advertising. The complaint seeks a judgment (i) declaring that such provisions of the law violate the First and or Fifth Amendments of the U.S. Constitution and (ii) enjoining the FDA from enforcing the unconstitutional provisions of the law. On January 4, 2010, the district court issued an order (a) striking down the provisions of the law that banned the use of color and graphics in certain tobacco product advertising and prohibited tobacco manufacturers from making certain statements about the FDAs regulation of tobacco products and (b) upholding the remaining challenged advertising provisions. Both sides have appealed the district courts ruling to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, and the appeal has been fully briefed and argued. While we believe there is established legal precedent supporting our claims we cannot predict the outcome of any such appeal. Nor can we make any assurances that any such appeal will be successful. In February 2011, we, along with RJR Tobacco, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the FDA challenging the composition of the TPSAC because of the FDAs appointment of certain voting members with significant financial conflicts of interest. We believe these members are financially biased because they regularly testify as expert witnesses against tobacco product manufacturers, and because they are paid consultants for pharmaceutical companies that develop and market smoking cessation products. The suit similarly challenges the presence of certain conflicted individuals on the Constituents Subcommittee of the TPSAC. The complaint seeks a judgment (i) declaring that, among other things, the appointment of the conflicted individuals to the TPSAC (and its Constituents Subcommittee) was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, and otherwise not in compliance with the law because it prevented the TPSAC from preparing a report that was unbiased and untainted by conflicts of interest, and (ii) enjoining the FDA from, among other things, relying on the TPSACs report. The FDA has filed a motion to dismiss this action, the parties have briefed the issue and a hearing was scheduled for February 14, 2012. In August 2011, we, along with RJR Tobacco and several other tobacco manufacturers, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the FDA challenging the constitutionality of certain regulations requiring specific graphic warning labels on all packaging and advertising. The Complaint seeks a judgment (i) declaring that the regulations violate the First Amendment; (ii) declaring that the regulations violate various provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act; (iii) declaring that the textual and graphic warnings required under the 30 Table of Contents FSPTCA shall become effective 15 months after the FDA issues regulations that are permissible under the U.S. Constitution and federal law; and (iv) preliminarily and permanently enjoining enforcement of the regulations. Plaintiffs have moved for a preliminary injunction, and after full briefing and oral argument, the district court granted plaintiffs motion. The FDA has appealed that decision to the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. Briefing is ongoing, and oral argument is scheduled for April 2012. Plaintiffs also moved in the district court for summary judgment in their favor. The FDA has opposed Plaintiffs motion and has cross moved for summary judgment in its favor. The district court granted a motion to expedite consideration of the cross summary judgment motions. Oral argument on those motions was held on February 1, 2012 before the district court. As of February 9, 2012, the court has not ruled on the motions. The federal government and many state and local governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, have adopted legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit, restrict or discourage smoking, including legislation, regulations or policies prohibiting or restricting smoking in public buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars, on airline flights and in the workplace. Other similar laws and regulations are under consideration and may be enacted by federal, state and local governments in the future. Substantial federal, state and local excise taxes are reflected in the retail price of cigarettes. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, the federal excise tax was $1.0066 per pack and combined state and local excise taxes ranged from $0.17 to $5.85 per pack. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, excise tax increases ranging from $0.20 to $0.40 per pack were implemented in three states and the District of Columbia and one state excise tax decrease of $0.10 in New Hampshire. On June 21, 2010, New York state legislature approved a $1.60 per pack state excise tax increase that was implemented on July 1, 2010. The federal excise tax on cigarettes increased by $0.6166 per pack to $1.0066 per pack, effective April 1, 2009, to finance health insurance for children. It is likely that increases in excise and similar taxes have had an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes and that the most recent increase and future increases, the extent of which cannot be predicted, could result in further volume declines for the cigarette industry, including us, and an increased sales shift toward deep discount cigarettes rather than premium brands. In addition, we and other cigarette manufacturers and importers are required to pay an assessment under a federal law designed to fund payments to tobacco quota holders and growers and are required to pay an annual user fee to the FDA. The domestic market for cigarettes is highly competitive. Competition is primarily based on a brands taste; quality; price, including the level of discounting and other promotional activities; positioning; consumer loyalty; and retail display. Our principal competitors are the two other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, Philip Morris USA and RJR Tobacco. We also compete with numerous other smaller manufacturers and importers of cigarettes, including deep discount cigarette manufacturers. We believe our ability to compete even more effectively has been restrained in some marketing areas as a result of retail merchandising contracts offered by Philip Morris USA and RJR Tobacco which limit the retail shelf space available to our brands. As a result, in some retail locations we are limited in competitively supporting our promotional programs, which may constrain sales. 31 Table of Contents The following table presents selected Lorillard and industry shipment data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: Selected Industry Data (3) Year Ended December 31, (Volume in billions) 2011 2010 2009 Lorillard total domestic unit volume (1) 40.034 37.433 35.560 Industry total domestic unit volume (1) 293.098 303.679 315.735 Lorillards premium volume as a percentage of its total volume (2) 85.6% 86.6% 89.2% Newports share of Lorillards total volume (2) 84.5% 85.2% 87.5% Newports share of Lorillards net sales (2) 88.4% 88.8% 90.0% (1) Source: Management Science Associates, Inc. (MSAI), an independent third party database management organization that collects wholesale shipment data from various cigarette manufacturers. MSAI divides the cigarette market into two price segments, the premium price segment and the discount or reduced price segment. MSAIs information relating to unit sales volume and market share of certain of the smaller, primarily deep discount, cigarette manufacturers is based on estimates derived by MSAI. Management believes that volume and market share information for deep discount manufacturers may be understated. (2) Source: Lorillard shipment reports. (3) Domestic unit volume includes units sold as well as promotional units and excludes volumes for Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions. The following table presents selected Lorillard and industry retail market share data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, based on Lorillards proprietary retail shipment data, EXCEL, which reflects shipments from wholesalers to retailers. Selected Domestic Retail Market Share Data(1) Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Lorillards share of the retail market 14.1 % 12.9 % 11.8 % Lorillards share of the premium market 16.5 % 15.2 % 14.3 % Lorillards share of the menthol market (2) 39.1 % 38.4 % 36.9 % Newports share of the retail market 11.9 % 10.9 % 10.3 % Newports share of the premium market 16.3 % 15.0 % 14.0 % Newports share of the menthol market (2) 36.2 % 36.0 % 35.1 % Total menthol segment market share for the industry (2) 30.6 % 30.0 % 29.3 % Total discount segment market share for the industry 27.1 % 26.9 % 26.7 % (1) Source: Lorillards proprietary retail shipment data, EXCEL, which reflect shipments from wholesalers to retailers. (2) Lorillard has made certain adjustments to its proprietary retail shipment data to reflect managements judgment as to which brands are included in the menthol segment. Income Statement Captions Net sales includes revenue from product sales, net of sales incentives, and is recognized at the time that ownership of the goods transfers to customers and collectability is reasonably assured. Federal excise taxes are recognized on a gross basis, and are included in both net sales and cost of sales. Sales incentives include retail price discounts, coupons and retail display allowances, and are recorded as a reduction of revenue based on amounts estimated as due to customers and consumers at the end of a period based primarily on use and redemption rates. Cost of sales includes federal excise taxes, leaf tobacco cost, wrapping and casing material, manufacturing labor and production salaries, wages and overhead, depreciation related to manufacturing plant and equipment, research and development costs, distribution, other manufacturing costs, State Settlement Agreement expenses, the federal assessment for tobacco growers and promotional product expenses. Promotional product expenses include the cost, including all applicable excise taxes, of the free portion of buy some get some free promotions. 32 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses includes sales force expenses, legal and other costs of litigating and administering product liability claims, administrative expenses and advertising and marketing costs. Advertising and marketing costs include items such as direct mail, advertising, agency fees and point of sale materials. Investment income includes interest and dividend income, realized gains and losses on sale of investments and equity in the earnings of limited partnership investments. Interest expense includes interest expense related to debt and income taxes. Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2011 Compared to the Year ended December 31, 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Net sales (including excise taxes of $2,014 and $1,879) $ 6,466 $ 5,932 Cost of sales 4,123 3,809 Gross profit 2,343 2,123 Selling, general and administrative 451 398 Operating income 1,892 1,725 Investment income 3 4 Interest expense (125 ) (94 ) Income before income taxes 1,770 1,635 Income taxes 654 606 Net income $ 1,116 $ 1,029 Net sales. Net sales increased by $534 million, or 9.0%, from $5.932 billion in 2010 to $6.466 billion in 2011. Net sales increased $486 million due to higher unit sales volume (including $135 million of federal excise tax) and $150 million due to higher average unit prices reflecting price increases in February, May and November 2010 and July and December 2011. These increases were partially offset by $102 million of higher sales incentives in 2011. Federal excise taxes are included in net sales and increased $30.83 per thousand units, or $0.62 per pack of 20 units, to $50.33 per thousand cigarettes, or $1.01 per pack of 20 cigarettes, effective April 1, 2009. Total Lorillard wholesale unit volume, which includes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, increased 6.9% during 2011 compared 2010. Domestic unit volume, which excludes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, also increased 6.9% in 2011 compared to 2010. Unit volume figures in this section are provided on a gross basis. Total unit volume for Newport, the Companys flagship brand, increased 6.0% in 2011 and domestic Newport unit volume increased 6.1% in 2011 compared to 2010. Domestic wholesale shipments for Maverick, the Companys leading discount brand, increased 16.0% in 2011 compared 2010. Total cigarette industry domestic wholesale shipments decreased an estimated 3.5% in 2011 compared to 2010. Based on our proprietary retail shipment data (Excel), which measures shipments from wholesale to retail and is unaffected by changes in wholesale inventory patterns, Lorillards domestic retail market share increased 1.2 share points in 2011 to 14.1%. Newports domestic retail market share reached 11.9% during 2011, an increase of 1.0 share points compared to 2010. The Companys strategic initiatives including the successful launch of Newport Non Menthol, geographic expansion initiatives on Newport Menthol and continued retail shipment growth on Maverick accounted for the increase in volume and market share growth. Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by $314 million, or 8.2%, from $3.809 billion in 2010 to $4.123 billion in 2011. The increase in cost of sales is primarily due to higher unit sales volume ($166 million, including $135 million of federal excise tax), higher raw material costs, primarily tobacco and wrapping materials ($28 million), higher expenses related to the State Settlement Agreements ($95 million), higher Food and Drug Administration fees ($25 million) and the Federal Assessment for Tobacco Growers ($9 million). We recorded pre tax charges for our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements of $1.307 billion and $1.212 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, an increase of $95 million. The $95 million increase is due to the impact of higher unit sales ($93), the impact of the inflation adjustment ($36 million), partially offset by other adjustments ($34 million). Other adjustments include a favorable impact on tobacco settlement expense of $25 million resulting 33 Table of Contents from a competitors adoption of mark to market pension accounting in the fourth quarter of 2011. The reduction in our costs associated with the mark to market adjustment reported by Reynolds American amounted to approximately $3 million and was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011. In addition, industry operating profits reported in prior years were reduced as a result of the restatement arising from Reynolds Americans accounting change, which had the effect of further reducing the amounts due under the State Settlement Agreements by approximately $22 million. Tobacco settlement expenses are impacted by a number of factors including industry profits, which were significantly reduced in the fourth quarter by the competitors accounting change. Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $53 million, or 13.3%, from $398 million in 2010 to $451 million in 2011. The increase in 2011 is primarily a result of higher legal costs related to the Engle Progeny litigation. In addition, certain other selling, general and administrative costs increased due to higher compensation costs and higher administrative costs incurred in support of strategic initiatives, including market research and advertising costs related to the launch of Newport Non Menthol, as well as costs incurred in support of the Companys position and industry reports to the FDA regarding the use of Menthol in cigarettes. Interest expense. Interest expense increased $31 million in 2011, compared to 2010, and reflects interest on the senior notes issued in the second quarter of 2010 and the third quarter of 2011. Income taxes. Income taxes increased $48 million or 7.9%, from $606 million in 2010 to $654 million in 2011. The change reflects the increase in income before income taxes of $135 million in 2011 or 8.3%, offset partially by a decrease in the effective tax rate from 37.1% to 37.0% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. The decrease was primarily driven by state tax law changes enacted during the second quarter of 2011 as well as the settlement of certain state and federal tax matters. Year ended December 31, 2010 Compared to the Year ended December 31, 2009 2010 2009 (In millions) Net sales (including excise taxes of $1,879 and $1,547) $ 5,932 $ 5,233 Cost of sales 3,809 3,327 Gross profit 2,123 1,906 Selling, general and administrative 398 365 Operating income 1,725 1,541 Investment income 4 5 Interest expense (94 ) (27 ) Income before income taxes 1,635 1,519 Income taxes 606 571 Net income $ 1,029 $ 948 Net sales. Net sales increased by $699 million, or 13.4%, from $5.233 billion in 2009 to $5.932 billion in 2010. Net sales increased $287 million due to the increase in federal excise taxes effective April 1, 2009, $287 million due to higher unit sales volume and $80 million due to higher average unit prices reflecting price increases in February and March 2009 and February, May and November 2010 and $45 million of lower sales incentives in 2010. Federal excise taxes are included in net sales and increased $30.83 per thousand units, or $0.62 per pack of 20 units, to $50.33 per thousand cigarettes, or $1.01 per pack of 20 cigarettes, effective April 1, 2009. Total Lorillard wholesale unit volume, which includes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, increased 5.0% during 2010 compared to 2009. Domestic unit volume, which excludes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, increased 5.3% in 2010 compared to 2009. Unit volume figures in this section are provided on a gross basis. Total unit volume for Newport, the Companys flagship brand, increased 2.3% in 2010 and domestic Newport unit volume increased 2.5% in 2010 compared to 2009. Domestic wholesale shipments for Maverick, the Companys leading discount brand, increased 31.5% in 2010 compared to 2009. Excluding the launch of Newport Non Menthol in the fourth quarter of 2010, Newports domestic wholesale unit shipments increased 1.2% during 2010. Industry wide domestic unit volume decreased an estimated 3.8% during 2010 compared to 2009. 34 Table of Contents Based on our proprietary retail shipment data (Excel), which measures shipments from wholesale to retail and is unaffected by changes in wholesale inventory patterns, Lorillards domestic retail market share increased 1.1 share points in 2010 to 12.9%. Newports domestic retail market share reached 10.9% during 2010, an increase of 0.6 share points compared to 2009. The Companys successful launch of Newport Non Menthol, geographic expansion initiatives on Newport Menthol and continued retail shipment growth on Maverick accounted for the increase in volume and market share growth. Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by $482 million, or 14.5%, from $3.327 billion in 2009 to $3.809 billion in 2010. The increase in cost of sales is primarily due to the increase in federal excise taxes ($287 million), higher unit sales volume ($67 million), higher raw material costs, primarily tobacco and wrapping materials ($7 million), higher expenses related to the State Settlement Agreements ($84 million), higher Food and Drug Administration fees ($26 million) and the Federal Assessment for Tobacco Growers ($11 million). We recorded pre tax charges for our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements of $1.212 billion and $1.128 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, an increase of $84 million. The $84 million increase is due to the impact of higher unit sales ($54), the impact of the inflation adjustment ($32 million), partially offset by other adjustments ($2 million). Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $33 million, or 9.0%, from $365 million in 2009 to $398 million in 2010 as a result of higher legal and compensation costs incurred in the current year. Interest expense. Interest expense increased $67 million in 2010, compared to 2009, and reflects interest on the senior notes issued in the second quarter of 2009, net of the effect of interest rate swap agreements, and interest on the senior notes issued in the second quarter of 2010. Income taxes. Income taxes increased $35 million or 6.1%, from $571 million in 2009 to $606 million in 2010. The change reflects the increase in income before income taxes of $116 million in 2010 or 7.6%, offset partially by a decrease in the effective tax rate from 37.6% to 37.1% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. The decrease was driven by a statutory increase in the manufacturers deduction, offset partially by the unfavorable impact of the repeal of future tax deductions for Medicare Part D subsidies for retiree drug benefits pursuant to the health care reform legislation enacted during the first quarter of 2010. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our cash and cash equivalents of $1.634 billion at December 31, 2011 were invested in prime money market funds. Cash Flows Cash flow from operating activities. The principal source of liquidity for our business and operating needs is internally generated funds from our operations. We generated net cash flow from operations of $1.183 billion for 2011 compared to $1.091 billion for 2010. The increased cash flow in 2011 primarily reflects the increase in net income. Net cash flow from operations was $1.091 billion for 2010, compared to $1.037 billion for 2009. The increased cash flow in 2010 primarily reflects the increase in net income. Cash flow from investing activities. Our cash flow from investing activities used cash of $56 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 compared to $40 million for 2010. The increase in cash flow used by investing activities in 2011 is due to increased purchases of equipment. Our cash flow from investing activities used cash of $40 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 compared to $51 million for 2009. The decrease in cash flow used by investing activities in 2010 is due to decreased purchases of equipment. Capital expenditures were $56 million, $40 million and $51 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The expenditures were primarily for the modernization of manufacturing equipment. Our capital expenditures for 2012 are forecast to be between $65 million and $75 million. Cash flow from financing activities. Our cash flow from operations has exceeded our working capital and capital expenditure requirements in each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. In 2009, we paid cash dividends of $155 million, $155 million, $163 million and $158 million on March 12, 2009, June 12, 2009, 35 Table of Contents September 11, 2009 and December 11, 2009, respectively. In 2010, we paid cash dividends of $155 million, $152 million, $171 million and $167 million on March 11, 2010, June 11, 2010, September 10, 2010 and December 13, 2010, respectively. In 2011, we paid cash dividends of $188 million, $185 million, $177 million and $173 million on March 11, 2011, June 10, 2011, September 12, 2011 and December 12, 2011, respectively. In June 2009, Lorillard Tobacco issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 8.125% unsecured senior notes due June 23, 2019 (the 2019 Notes) pursuant to an Indenture, dated June 23, 2009 (the Indenture), and First Supplemental Indenture, dated June 23, 2009 (the First Supplemental Indenture). In September 2009, Lorillard Tobacco entered into interest rate swap agreements, which the Company guaranteed, with a total notional amount of $750 million to modify its exposure to interest rate risk by effectively converting the interest rate payable on the 2019 Notes from a fixed rate to a floating rate. Under the agreements, Lorillard Tobacco receives interest based on a fixed rate of 8.125% and pays interest based on a floating one month LIBOR rate plus a spread of 4.625%. The variable rates were 4.896% and 4.886% as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The agreements expire in June 2019. The interest rate swap agreements qualify for hedge accounting and were designated as fair value hedges. Under the swap agreements, Lorillard Tobacco receives a fixed rate settlement and pays a variable rate settlement with the difference recorded in interest expense. That difference reduced interest expense by $24 and $24 and for the years ended 2011 and 2010, respectively. In April 2010, Lorillard Tobacco issued $1 billion of unsecured senior notes in two tranches pursuant to Indenture, and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated April 12, 2010 (the Second Supplemental Indenture). The first tranche was $750 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Notes due May 1, 2020 (the 2020 Notes), and the second tranche was $250 million aggregate principal amount of 8.125% Notes due May 1, 2040 (the 2040 Notes). In August 2011, Lorillard Tobacco issued $750 million of unsecured senior notes in two tranches pursuant to the Indenture and the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated August 4, 2011 (the Third Supplemental Indenture). The first tranche was $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.500% Notes due August 4, 2016 (the 2016 Notes) and the second tranche was $250 million aggregate principal amount of 7.000% Notes due August 4, 2041 (the 2041 Notes). Lorillard Tobacco is the principal, wholly owned operating subsidiary of the Company and the 2016 Notes, 2019 Notes, 2020 Notes, 2040 Notes and 2041 Notes (collectively, the Notes) are unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company. The net proceeds from the issuance will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, the repurchase, redemption or retirement of securities including the Companys common stock, acquisitions, additions to working capital and capital expenditures. The interest rate payable on the 2019 Notes is subject to incremental increases from 0.25% to 2.00% in the event either Moodys Investors Services, Inc. (Moodys), Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) or both Moodys and S&P downgrade the 2019 Notes below investment grade (Baa3 and BBB for Moodys and S&P, respectively). As of December 31, 2011, our debt ratings were Baa2 and BBB with Moodys and S&P, respectively, both of which are investment grade. Upon the occurrence of a change of control triggering event, Lorillard Tobacco will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest. A change of control triggering event occurs when there is both a change of control (as defined in the Second Supplemental Indenture) and the Notes cease to be rated investment grade by both Moodys and S&P within 60 days of the occurrence of a change of control or public announcement of the intention to effect a change of control. The Notes are not entitled to any sinking fund and are not redeemable prior to maturity. The Notes contain covenants that restrict liens and sale and leaseback transactions, subject to a limited exception. During 2011, we repurchased approximately 15.6 million shares at a cost of $101.94 per share and totaling $1.586 billion under the $1.4 billion repurchase program announced in August 2010 and amended in May 2011, and the $750 million repurchase program announced in August 2011. As of February 15, 2012, the maximum dollar value of shares that could yet be purchased under the $750 million program was $27 million. Purchases by the Company under these programs were made from time to time at prevailing market prices in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, block purchase techniques or otherwise, as determined by the Companys management. The purchases were funded from existing cash balances, including proceeds from the issuance of the Notes. These programs do not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of its 36 Table of Contents common stock. The timing, frequency and amount of repurchase activity will depend on a variety of factors such as levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements for investment in the Companys business, current stock price, market conditions and other factors. Liquidity We believe that cash flow from operating activities will be sufficient for the foreseeable future to enable us to meet our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements and to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. We cannot predict our cash requirements related to any future settlements or judgments, including cash required to bond any appeals, if necessary, and can make no assurance that we will be able to meet all of those requirements. The rate of return on our pension assets in 2011 was a positive 4.9%. Our pension expense was approximately $15 million in 2011 and we anticipate pension expense of approximately $24 million in 2012. We contributed $28 million to our pension plans in 2011 and anticipate a contribution of $31 million in 2012. We believe that it is appropriate for a company of our size and financial characteristics to have a prudent level of debt as a component of our capital structure in order to reduce our total cost of capital and improve total shareholder returns. Accordingly, we raised $750 million, $1 billion and $750 million of debt financing in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and we expect that we will seek to raise additional debt financing in the future, although the structure, timing and amount of such indebtedness has not yet been determined and will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to the prevailing credit and interest rate environment, our cash requirements, and other business, financial and tax considerations. The proceeds of any such debt financing may be used to fund stock repurchases, acquisitions, dividends or for other general corporate purposes. We presently have no commitments or agreements with or from any third party regarding any debt financing transactions and no assurance can be given that we will ultimately pursue any debt financing or, if pursued, that we will be able to obtain debt financing at the suggested levels or on attractive terms. In March 2010, Lorillard Tobacco, the principal, wholly owned operating subsidiary of the Company, entered into a $185 million revolving credit facility (Revolver) that expires March 26, 2013 and is guaranteed by the Company. Proceeds from the Revolver may be used for general corporate and working capital purposes. The interest rates on borrowings under the Revolver will be based on prevailing interest rates and, in part, upon the credit rating applicable to the Companys senior unsecured long term debt. The Revolver requires that the Company maintain a ratio of debt to net income plus income taxes, interest expense, depreciation and amortization expense, any extraordinary losses, any non cash expenses or losses and any losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business (EBITDA) of not more than 2.25 to 1 and a ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of not less than 3.0 to 1. In addition, the Revolver contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including restrictions on liens and sale and leaseback transactions subject to a limited exception. The Revolver contains customary events of default, including upon a change in control that could result in the acceleration of all amounts and cancellation of all commitments outstanding, if any, under the Revolver. There were no borrowings under the Revolver during 2010 or 2011. State Settlement Agreements The State Settlement Agreements require us and the other Original Participating Manufacturers (Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco)) to make aggregate annual payments of $10.4 billion in perpetuity, subject to adjustment for several factors described below. In addition, the Original Participating Manufacturers are required to pay plaintiffs attorneys fees, subject to an aggregate annual cap of $500 million. These payment obligations are several and not joint obligations of each of the Original Participating Manufacturers. Our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements will materially adversely affect our cash flows and operating income in future years. 37 Table of Contents Both the aggregate payment obligations of the Original Participating Manufacturers, and our payment obligations, individually, under the State Settlement Agreements are subject to adjustment for several factors which include: inflation; aggregate volume of Original Participating Manufacturers cigarette shipments; other Original Participating Manufacturers and our market share; and aggregate Original Participating Manufacturers operating income, allocated to such manufacturers that have operating income increases. The inflation adjustment increases payments on a compounded annual basis by the greater of 3.0% or the actual total percentage change in the consumer price index for the preceding year. The inflation adjustment is measured starting with inflation for 1999. The volume adjustment increases or decreases payments based on the increase or decrease in the total number of cigarettes shipped in or to the 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico by the Original Participating Manufacturers during the preceding year compared to the 1997 base year shipments. If volume has increased, the volume adjustment would increase the annual payment by the same percentage as the number of cigarettes shipped exceeds the 1997 base number. If volume has decreased, the volume adjustment would decrease the annual payment by 98.0% of the percentage reduction in volume. In addition, downward adjustments to the annual payments for changes in volume may, subject to specified conditions and exceptions, be reduced in the event of an increase in the Original Participating Manufacturers aggregate operating income from domestic sales of cigarettes over base year levels established in the State Settlement Agreements, adjusted for inflation. Any adjustments resulting from increases in operating income would be allocated among those Original Participating Manufacturers who have had increases. During 2011, we paid $1.219 billion under the State Settlement Agreements, primarily based on 2010 volume. Included in the above number was $107 million we deposited in an interest bearing escrow account in accordance with procedures established in the MSA pending resolution of a claim by us and the other Original Participating Manufacturers that they are entitled to reduce their MSA payments based on a loss of market share to non participating manufacturers. Most of the states that are parties to the MSA are disputing the availability of the reduction and we believe that this dispute will ultimately be resolved by judicial and arbitration proceedings. Our $107 million reduction is based upon the Original Participating Manufacturers collective loss of market share in 2008. In April of 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we had previously deposited $88 million, $74 million, $72 million, $111 million and $109 million, respectively, in the same escrow account discussed above, which was based on a loss of market share in 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 to non participating manufacturers. In February 2009, we directed the transfer of $72 million from this account to the non disputed account, related to the loss of market share in 2005, pursuant to an Agreement Concerning Arbitration that we and other Participating Manufacturers entered into with certain MSA states. This amount was then paid to the MSA states. We and other Original Participating Manufacturers have the right to claim additional reductions of MSA payments in subsequent years under provisions of the MSA. Contractual Cash Payment Obligations The following table presents the contractual cash payment obligations of Lorillard as of December 31, 2011: Total Lessthan1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years Morethan 5years (In millions) Senior notes $ 2,500 $ $ $ 500 $ 2,000 Interest payments related to notes 2,055 167 504 311 1,073 Contractual purchase obligations 78 78 Operating lease obligations 3 2 1 Total $ 4,636 $ 247 $ 505 $ 811 $ 3,073 As of December 31, 2011, we do not believe that we will make any payments in the next twelve months related to gross unrecognized tax benefits. We cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits that may result in cash settlements for periods beyond twelve months. 38 Table of Contents As previously discussed, we have entered into the State Settlement Agreements which impose a stream of future payment obligations on us and the other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers. Our portion of ongoing adjusted settlement payments, including fees to settling plaintiffs attorneys, are based on a number of factors which are described above. Our cash payment under the State Settlement Agreements in 2011 amounted to $1.219 billion and we estimate our cash payments in 2012 under the State Settlement Agreements will be between $1.350 billion and $1.400 billion, primarily based on 2011 estimated industry volume. Payment obligations are not incurred until the related sales occur and therefore are not reflected in the above table. Please see the discussion of the calculation of the Original Participating Manufacturers base payment obligations under the State Settlement Agreements under State Settlement Agreements on page 37. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements None. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We invest in financial instruments that involve market risk. Our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. Market risk exposure is presented below for each class of financial instrument we held at December 31, 2011, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. We believe that the rate of adverse market movement represents a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. The estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. In addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. The market risk exposure represents the potential loss in carrying value and pretax impact to future earnings caused by the hypothetical change in price. Exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. Senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has the responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. Interest rate risk. Our investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents, consist of money market funds with financial institutions. Those investments are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. A sensitivity analysis, based on a hypothetical 1% increase or decrease in interest rates on our average 2011 investments, would cause an increase or decrease in pre tax income of approximately $16 million. Our debt is denominated in US Dollars and has been issued at a fixed rate. In September 2009, we entered into interest rate swap agreements for a total notional amount of $750 million to hedge changes in fair value of the Notes due to changes in the designated benchmark interest rate. Changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in earnings along with offsetting adjustments to the carrying amount of the hedged debt. A sensitivity analysis, based on a hypothetical 1% change in LIBOR, would cause an increase or decrease in pretax income of approximately $8 million for 2011. Liquidity risk. We may be forced to cash settle all or a portion of our derivative contracts before the expiration date if our debt rating is downgraded below Ba2 by Moodys or BB by S&P. This could have a negative impact on our cash position. Early cash settlement would result in the timing of our hedge settlement not being matched to the cash settlement of the debt. Our current Moodys debt rating is Baa2, and our current S&P debt rating is BBB , both of which are above the ratings at which settlement of our derivative contracts would be required. See Note 11 for additional information on derivatives. 39 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Environment and Selected Industry and Market Share Data beginning on pages 26 and 32, respectively, for additional information. 6 Table of Contents Legislation and Regulation Our business operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the research, development and manufacture of cigarettes; the development of new tobacco products; the publication of health warnings on cigarette packaging and advertising; the sale of tobacco products; restrictions on smoking in public places; and fire safety standards. From time to time, new legislation and regulations are proposed and reports are published by government sponsored committees and others recommending additional regulation of tobacco products. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proposals, reports and recommendations. If they are enacted or implemented, certain of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition or results of operations in the future. Federal Regulation The Federal Comprehensive Smoking Education Act, which became effective in 1985, requires that cigarette packaging and advertising display one of the following four warning statements, on a rotating basis: (1) SURGEON GENERALS WARNING: Smoking Causes Lung Cancer, Heart Disease, Emphysema, and may Complicate Pregnancy. (2) SURGEON GENERALS WARNING: Quitting Smoking Now Greatly Reduces Serious Risks to Your Health. (3) SURGEON GENERALS WARNING: Smoking By Pregnant Women May Result in Fetal Injury, Premature Birth, and Low Birth Weight. (4) SURGEON GENERALS WARNING: Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide. This law also requires that each company that manufactures, packages or imports cigarettes shall annually provide to the Secretary of Health and Human Services a list of the ingredients added to tobacco in the manufacture of cigarettes. This list of ingredients may be submitted in a manner that does not identify the company that uses the ingredients or the brand of cigarettes that contain the ingredients. In addition, bills have been introduced in Congress, including those that would: prohibit all tobacco advertising and promotion; authorize the establishment of various anti smoking education programs; provide that current federal law should not be construed to relieve any person of liability under common or state law; permit state and local governments to restrict the sale and distribution of cigarettes; direct the placement of advertising of tobacco products; provide that cigarette advertising not be deductible as a business expense; restrict the sale or distribution of cigarettes in retail stores, by mail or over the internet; impose additional, or increase existing, excise taxes on cigarettes and require that cigarettes be manufactured in a manner that will cause them, under certain circumstances, to be self extinguishing. 7 Table of Contents In June 2009, the U.S. Congress passed, and the President signed into law, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act that grants the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authority to regulate tobacco products. The legislation: established a Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee to, among other things, evaluate the issues surrounding the use of menthol as a flavoring or ingredient in cigarettes and issue a nonbinding recommendation to the FDA regarding menthol by March 23, 2011; grants the FDA the regulatory authority to consider and impose broad additional restrictions through a rule making process, including a ban on the use of menthol in cigarettes; requires larger and more severe health warnings, including graphic images, on packs, cartons, and advertising; bans the use of descriptors on tobacco products, such as low tar and light; bans the distribution of free samples of cigarettes; requires the disclosure of ingredients and additives to consumers; requires pre market approval by the FDA of all new products, including substantially equivalent products; requires pre market approval by the FDA for all claims made with respect to reduced risk or reduced exposure products; allows the FDA to review existing products to determine whether these products are substantially equivalent to other products in the market; allows the FDA to require the reduction of nicotine or any other compound in cigarettes; allows the FDA to mandate the use of reduced risk technologies in conventional cigarettes; allows the FDA to place more severe restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sales of cigarettes; and permits inconsistent state regulation of the advertising or promotion of cigarettes and eliminates the existing federal preemption of such regulation. The legislation permits the FDA to impose restrictions regarding the use of menthol in cigarettes, including a ban, if those restrictions would be appropriate for the public health. Any ban or material limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. It is possible that such additional regulation, including regulation of menthol short of a ban thereof, could result in a decrease in cigarette sales in the United States (including sales of our brands), increased costs to us, and or the development of a significant black market for cigarettes, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Environmental Tobacco Smoke Various publications and studies by governmental entities have reported that environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) presents health risks. In addition, public health organizations have issued statements on the adverse health effects of ETS, and scientific papers have been published that address the health problems associated with ETS exposure. Various states, cities and municipalities have restricted public smoking in recent years, and these restrictions have been based at least in part on the publications regarding the health risks believed to be associated with ETS exposure. The governmental entities that have published these reports have included the Surgeon General of the United States, first in 1986 and again in 2006. The 2006 report, for instance, concluded that there is no risk free level of exposure to ETS. In 2000, the Department of Health and Human Services listed ETS as a known human carcinogen. In 1993, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency concluded that ETS is a human lung carcinogen in adults and causes respiratory effects in children. 8 Table of Contents Agencies of state governments also have issued publications regarding ETS, including reports by California entities that were published in 1997, 1999 and 2006. In the 2006 study, the California Air Resources Board determined that ETS is a toxic air contaminant. Based on these or other findings, public health concerns regarding ETS have lead and could continue to lead to the imposition of additional restrictions on public smoking, including bans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition or results of operations in the future. State and Local Regulation Many state, local and municipal governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, have adopted legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit or restrict, or are intended to discourage, smoking, including legislation, regulations or policies prohibiting or restricting smoking in various places such as public buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars and on airline flights and in the workplace. This trend has increased significantly since the release of the EPAs report regarding ETS in 1993. Two states, Massachusetts and Texas, have enacted legislation requiring each manufacturer of cigarettes sold in those states to submit an annual report identifying for each brand sold certain added constituents, and providing nicotine yield ratings and other information for certain brands. Neither law allows for the public release of trade secret information. A New York law which became effective in June 2004 requires cigarettes sold in that state to meet a mandated standard for ignition propensity. We developed proprietary technology to comply with the standards and were compliant by the effective date. Since the passage of the New York law, an additional 49 states and the District of Columbia have passed similar laws utilizing the same technical standards. The effective dates of these laws range from May 2006 to January 2011. As of November 1, 2009, all of our cigarettes were manufactured using this technology. Other similar laws and regulations have been enacted or considered by other state and local governments. We cannot predict the impact which these regulations may have on our business, though if enacted, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition or results of operations in the future. Excise Taxes and Assessments Cigarettes are subject to substantial federal, state and local excise taxes in the United States and, in general, such taxes have been increasing. Effective April 1, 2009, the federal excise tax on cigarettes increased to $50.33 per thousand cigarettes (or $1.0066 per pack of 20 cigarettes) from $19.50 per thousand cigarettes (or $0.39 per pack of 20 cigarettes). State excise taxes, which are levied upon and paid by the distributors, are also in effect in the fifty states, the District of Columbia and many municipalities. During 2011 state excise tax increases on cigarette sales were implemented in three states and the District of Columbia ranging from $0.20 per pack to $0.40 per pack and one state excise tax decrease of $0.10 per pack in New Hampshire. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, the combined state and municipal taxes ranged from $0.17 to $5.85 per pack of cigarettes. A federal law enacted in October 2004 repealed the federal supply management program for tobacco growers and compensated tobacco quota holders and growers with payments to be funded by an assessment on tobacco manufacturers and importers. Cigarette manufacturers and importers are responsible for paying 91.6% of a $10.14 billion payment to tobacco quota holders and growers over a ten year period. The law provides that payments will be based on shipments for domestic consumption. 9 Table of Contents Separation Agreement with Loews Corporation In connection with the Separation, we entered into a Separation Agreement with Loews Corporation on May 7, 2008. The Separation Agreement sets forth the relationship between Lorillard and Loews following the Separation, including provisions relating to indemnification and tax allocation between the parties. Indemnification Provisions We agreed to indemnify Loews and its officers, directors, employees and agents against all costs and expenses arising out of third party claims (including, without limitation, attorneys fees, interest, penalties and costs of investigation or preparation for defense), judgments, fines, losses, claims, damages, liabilities, taxes, demands, assessments and amounts paid in settlement based on, arising out of or resulting from: the ownership or the operation of our assets and properties, and the operation or conduct of our businesses at any time prior to or following the Separation (including with respect to any smoking and health claims and litigation); certain tax matters, as discussed below; any other activities in which we may engage; any action or omission by us (or any successor entity) that causes the Separation to become taxable to Loews; any breach by us of the Separation Agreement; any other acts or omissions by us arising out of the performance of our obligations under the Separation Agreement; misstatements in or omissions from the registration statement filed with regard to the Separation, other than misstatements or omissions made in reliance on information relating to and furnished by Loews for use in the preparation of such registration statement; and any taxes and related losses resulting from the receipt of any such indemnity payment. Our indemnification obligations, including the tax indemnification obligations described below, are binding on our successors. We are not permitted to merge, consolidate, transfer or convey all or a significant portion of our properties or assets unless the resulting entity, transferee or successor expressly agrees in writing to be bound by these indemnification obligations. Any equity security or equity interest of Lorillard Licensing Company, LLC (Lorillard Licensing), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary and owner of our trademarks, or any interest in the intellectual property owned by Lorillard Licensing, is deemed a significant portion for purposes of the foregoing. We also agreed to release Loews and its shareholders, officers, directors and employees from any liability owed by any of them to us with respect to acts or events occurring on or prior to the Separation date, except with respect to tax matters. The Separation Agreement also provides that Loews will indemnify us and our officers, directors, employees and agents against losses, including but not limited to, litigation matters, and other claims, based on, arising out of or resulting from: any activity that Loews and its subsidiaries (other than us) engage in; any breach by Loews of the Separation Agreement; any other acts or omissions by Loews arising out of the performance of its obligations under the Separation Agreement; and 10 Table of Contents misstatements in or omissions from the registration statement filed with regard to the Separation, but only with respect to misstatements or omissions made in reliance on information relating to and furnished by Loews for use in the preparation of such registration statement. Loews agreed to release us and all of our directors, officers and employees from any liability owed by any of us to Loews with respect to acts or events occurring on or prior to the Separation date, except with respect to tax matters. Tax Allocation Provisions Following the Separation, we are no longer included in Loewss consolidated group for federal income tax purposes. In connection with the Separation, the Separation Agreement provides certain tax allocation arrangements, pursuant to which we will indemnify Loews for tax liabilities that are allocated to us for taxable periods ending on or before the Separation date. The amount of federal income taxes allocated to us for such periods is generally equal to the federal income taxes that would have been payable by us during such periods if we had filed separate consolidated returns. In addition, with respect to periods in which we were included in Loewss consolidated group, Loews will indemnify us with respect to the tax liability of the members of the Loews consolidated group other than us. After the Separation, we have the right to be notified of and participate in tax matters for which we are financially responsible under the terms of the Separation Agreement, although Loews will generally control such matters. The Separation Agreement requires us (and any successor entity) to indemnify Loews for any losses resulting from the failure of the Separation to qualify as a tax free transaction (except if the failure to qualify is solely due to Loewss fault). This indemnification obligation applies regardless of whether the action is restricted as described above, or whether we or a potential successor obtains a supplemental ruling or an opinion of counsel. The Separation Agreement further provides for cooperation between us and Loews with respect to additional tax matters, including the exchange of information and the retention of records which may affect the income tax liability of the parties to the Separation Agreement. Available Information We are listed on the NYSE under the symbol LO. Our principal offices are located at 714 Green Valley Road, Greensboro, North Carolina 27408. Our telephone number is (336) 335 7000. Our corporate website is located at www.lorillard.com, and our filings pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge on our website under the tabs Investor Relations SEC Filings as soon as reasonably practicable after such filings are electronically filed with the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and charters for the audit, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees of our Board of Directors are also available on our website under the tabs, Investor Relations Corporate Governance and printed copies are available upon request. The information contained on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10 K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. Investors may also read and copy any materials that we file at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Readers may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains our reports. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS FDA regulation of menthol in cigarettes and concerns that mentholated cigarettes may pose greater health risks could adversely affect our business. Some plaintiffs in our litigation and constituencies, including the FDA and other public health agencies, have claimed or expressed concerns that mentholated cigarettes may pose greater health risks and may impact public health more than non mentholated cigarettes, including concerns that mentholated cigarettes may make it easier to start smoking and harder to quit, and may seek restrictions or a ban on the production and sale of mentholated cigarettes. Any ban or material limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Following the passage of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the Act) in June 2009, the FDA established the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee (the TPSAC) to evaluate, among other things, the impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health, including such use among children, African Americans, Hispanics, and other racial and ethnic minorities. In addition, the Act permits the FDA to impose restrictions regarding the use of menthol in cigarettes, including a ban, if those restrictions would be appropriate for the public health. The TPSAC or the Menthol Report Subcommittee held meetings on March 30 31, 2010, July 15 16, 2010, September 27, 2010, October 7, 2010, November 18, 2010, January 10 11, 2011, February 10 11, 2011, March 2, 2011, March 17 18, 2011 and July 21, 2011 to consider the issues surrounding the use of menthol in cigarettes. At the March 18, 2011 meeting, TPSAC presented its report and recommendations on menthol. The reports findings included that menthol likely increases experimentation and regular smoking, menthol likely increases the likelihood and degree of addiction for youth smokers, non white menthol smokers (particularly African Americans) are less likely to quit smoking and are less responsive to certain cessation medications, and that consumers continue to believe that smoking menthol cigarettes is less harmful than smoking nonmenthol cigarettes as a result of the cigarette industrys historical marketing. TPSACs overall recommendation to the FDA was that [r]emoval of menthol cigarettes from the marketplace would benefit public health in the United States. At the July 21, 2011 meeting, TPSAC considered revisions to its report, and the voting members unanimously approved the final report for submission to the FDA with no change in its recommendation. On June 27, 2011, the FDA provided a progress report on its review of the science related to menthol cigarettes. In the June 2011 update, the FDA stated that [e]xperts within the FDA Center for Tobacco Products are conducting an independent review of the science related to the impact [of menthol] in cigarettes on public health The FDA stated that it would submit its draft independent review of menthol science to an external peer review panel in July 2011. On January 26, 2012, the FDA provided a second progress report on its review of the science related to menthol cigarettes. In its January 2012 update, the FDA stated that FDA submitted its report to external scientists for peer review, and the agency is revising its report based on their feedback. FDA stated its intent to make the final report, along with the peer review scientists feedback and the agencys response to the feedback, available for public comment in the Federal Register. The FDA did not provide a date for releasing the final report. The FDA also indicated that it would consider any public comments to the final report, which may provide additional evidence or emerging data. Based on those comments, together with the agencys report, the TPSAC report, the industrys perspective report and prior public comments, the FDA stated that it will consider the collective evidence and possible actions related to the public health impact of menthol in cigarettes. If the FDA determines that regulation of menthol is warranted, the FDA could promulgate regulations that, among other things, could result in a ban on or restrictions on the use of menthol in cigarettes. Since we are the leading manufacturer of mentholated cigarettes in the United States, we could face increased exposure to tobacco related litigation as a result of such allegations. Even if such claims are unsubstantiated, increased concerns about the health impact of mentholated cigarettes could materially adversely affect our sales, including sales of Newport. A ban or limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes by the FDA would materially adversely affect our business. The regulation of cigarettes by the Food and Drug Administration may materially adversely affect our business. In June 2009, the U.S. Congress passed, and the President signed into law, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act that grants the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products. The legislation: established a Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee to, among other things, evaluate the issues surrounding the use of menthol as a flavoring or ingredient in cigarettes and issue a nonbinding recommendation to the FDA regarding menthol by March 23, 2011; grants the FDA the regulatory authority to consider and impose broad additional restrictions through a rule making process, including a ban on the use of menthol in cigarettes; requires larger and more severe health warnings, including graphic images, on packs, cartons and advertising; bans the use of descriptors on tobacco products, such as low tar and light; 12 Table of Contents requires the disclosure of ingredients and additives to consumers; requires pre market approval by the FDA of all new products, including substantially equivalent products; requires pre market approval by the FDA for claims made with respect to reduced risk or reduced exposure products; allows the FDA to require the reduction of nicotine or any other compound in cigarettes; allows the FDA to mandate the use of reduced risk technologies in conventional cigarettes; allows the FDA to place more severe restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sales of cigarettes; and permits possible inconsistent state and local regulation of the advertising or promotion of cigarettes by providing an exception to certain federal preemption of such regulation. We believe that such regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, under the Act, we must file a report with the FDA substantiating that any cigarettes introduced or modified after February 15, 2007 are substantially equivalent to cigarettes on the market before that date to enable the agency to determine whether the new or modified products are substantially equivalent to specific predicate products already being sold. For any products introduced or modified between February 15, 2007 and March 22, 2011, initial reports were required to be filed with the FDA on or before March 22, 2011. The FDA announced that a product introduced or modified before March 22, 2011 may remain on the market pending the FDAs review, provided a substantially equivalent report was filed with the FDA on or before March 22, 2011. We believe, based on the limited guidance issued by the FDA to date, that we were required to file, and have filed, reports for all of our cigarettes on or before March 22, 2011 since modifications had been made to our products since 2007. While all of our cigarettes may remain on the market pending the FDAs review, they are subject to removal should the FDA determine any are not substantially equivalent. In addition, products introduced on or after March 22, 2011 will require pre market approval by the FDA which may be subject to similar or more restrictive procedures. The legislation also permits the FDA to impose restrictions regarding the use of menthol in cigarettes, including a ban, if those restrictions would be appropriate for the public health. Any ban or material limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. It is possible that such additional regulation, including regulation of menthol short of a ban thereof, could result in a decrease in cigarette sales in the United States (including sales of our brands), increased costs to us and or the development of a significant black market for cigarettes, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. As of February 9, 2012, Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant in approximately 8,562 tobacco related lawsuits, including approximately 683 cases in which Lorillard, Inc. is a co defendant. These cases, which are extremely costly to defend, could result in substantial judgments against Lorillard Tobacco and or Lorillard, Inc. Numerous legal actions, proceedings and claims arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects of cigarettes are pending against Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc., and it is likely that similar claims will continue to be filed for the foreseeable future. In addition, several cases have been filed against Lorillard Tobacco and other tobacco companies challenging certain provisions of the MSA among major tobacco manufacturers and 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions, and state statutes promulgated to carry out and enforce the MSA. Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the billions of dollars, are specifically pleaded in a number of cases in addition to compensatory and other damages. It is possible that the outcome of these cases, individually or in the aggregate, could result in bankruptcy. It is also possible that Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc. may be unable to post a surety bond in an amount sufficient to stay execution of a judgment in jurisdictions that require such bond pending an appeal on the merits of the case. Even if Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc. are successful in defending some or all of these actions, these types of cases are very expensive to defend. A material increase in the number of pending claims could significantly increase defense costs and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, adverse decisions in litigations against other tobacco companies could have an adverse impact on the industry, including us. 13 Table of Contents Plaintiffs have been awarded damages, including punitive damages, from Lorillard Tobacco in a Conventional Product Liability Case. In December 2010, a Massachusetts jury awarded damages, including punitive damages, from Lorillard Tobacco in a Conventional Product Liability Case, Evans v. Lorillard Tobacco Company (Superior Court, Suffolk County, Massachusetts). In September 2011, the court reduced the compensatory damages awarded to the estate of a deceased smoker to $25 million and reduced the award to the deceased smokers son to $10 million. The court declined to reduce the jurys award of $81 million in punitive damages. In September 2011, the court entered a judgment that reflected the jurys damages awards and the courts reductions following trial. The judgment awarded plaintiffs interest on each of the three damages awards at the rate of 12% per year from the date the case was filed in 2004. Interest on the three awards will continue to accrue until either the judgment is paid or is vacated on appeal. The judgment permitted plaintiffs counsel to request an award of attorneys fees and costs. In November 2011, the court granted in part plaintiffs counsels application for attorneys fees and costs and has awarded approximately $2.4 million in fees and approximately $225,000 in costs. The court entered a final judgment that incorporated the amounts of the verdicts, as reduced by the trial court, the awards of interest, and the awards of attorneys fees and costs. Lorillard Tobacco has noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Massachusetts Appeals Court. Plaintiff has asked the court to enter a preliminary injunction that directs Lorillard Tobacco to set aside $272 million in cash or cash equivalents to secure the amounts awarded by the jury and the interest obligations plaintiff expects the court to order in a final judgment. As of February 9, 2012, the court had not ruled on plaintiffs motion for preliminary injunction. It is possible that the verdict in this case could lead to additional litigation. The Florida Supreme Courts ruling in Engle has resulted in additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us. The case of Engle v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al. (Circuit Court, Dade County, Florida, filed May 5, 1994) was certified as a class action on behalf of Florida residents, and survivors of Florida residents, who were injured or died from medical conditions allegedly caused by addiction to smoking. The case was tried between 1998 and 2000 in a multi phase trial that resulted in verdicts in favor of the class. In 2006, the Florida Supreme Court issued a ruling that, among other things, determined that the case could not proceed further as a class action. In February 2008, the trial court entered an order on remand from the Florida Supreme Court that formally decertified the class. The 2006 ruling by the Florida Supreme Court in Engle also permitted members of the Engle class to file individual claims, including claims for punitive damages. The Florida Supreme Court held that these individual plaintiffs are entitled to rely on a number of the jurys findings in favor of the plaintiffs in the first phase of the Engle trial. These findings included that smoking cigarettes causes a number of diseases; that cigarettes are addictive or dependence producing; and that the defendants, including Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc., were negligent, breached express and implied warranties, placed cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous, and concealed or conspired to conceal the risks of smoking. Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant in approximately 5,900 cases pending in various state and federal courts in Florida that were filed by members of the Engle class (the Engle Progeny Cases), including 676 cases in which Lorillard, Inc. is a co defendant. As of February 9, 2012, trial was underway in two Engle Progeny cases in which Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant, the cases of Alexander v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Eleventh Judicial Circuit, Miami Dade County, Florida) and Kaplan v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Seventeenth Judicial Circuit, Broward County, Florida). Lorillard, Inc. is not a defendant in either of these trials. As of February 9, 2012, Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc. are defendants in Engle Progeny Cases that have been placed on courts 2012 trial calendars or in which specific trial dates have been set. Trial schedules are subject to change and it is not possible to predict how many of the Engle Progeny Cases pending against Lorillard Tobacco or Lorillard, Inc. will be tried in 2012. It also is not possible to predict whether some courts will implement procedures that consolidate multiple Engle Progeny Cases for trial. 14 Table of Contents Trials of some of the Engle Progeny cases have resulted in verdicts that have awarded damages from cigarette manufacturers, including us. As of February 9, 2012, plaintiffs in five Engle Progeny Cases were awarded compensatory damages from Lorillard Tobacco. In one of the five cases, plaintiffs were awarded punitive damages from Lorillard Tobacco. In a sixth case, the court awarded damages to the plaintiff from the defendants, including Lorillard Tobacco, following trial. Lorillard, Inc. was not a defendant in any of these six cases. The six cases are listed below in the order in which the verdicts were returned: In Mrozek v. Lorillard Tobacco Company (Circuit Court, Fourth Judicial Circuit, Duval County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiffs a total of $6 million in compensatory damages and $11.3 million in punitive damages. The jury apportioned 35% of the fault for the smokers injuries to the smoker and 65% to Lorillard Tobacco. The final judgment entered by the trial court reflected the jurys verdict and awarded plaintiff $3,900,588 in compensatory damages and $11,300,000 in punitive damages plus 6% annual interest. Lorillard Tobacco has noticed an appeal to the Florida First District Court of Appeal. As of February 9, 2012, the trial court had not ruled on plaintiffs motion for costs and attorneys fees. In Tullo v. R.J. Reynolds, et al. (Circuit Court, Palm Beach County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff a total of $4.5 million in compensatory damages. The jury assessed 45% of the fault to the smoker, 5% to Lorillard Tobacco and 50% to other defendants. The jury did not award punitive damages to the plaintiff. The court entered a final judgment that awarded plaintiff $225,000 in compensatory damages from Lorillard Tobacco plus 6% annual interest. Defendants noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal. The trial court has granted plaintiffs application for costs but it has not awarded an amount. As of February 9, 2012, the trial court had not ruled on plaintiffs motion for costs. In Sulcer v. Lorillard Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Escambia County, Florida), the jury awarded $225,000 in compensatory damages to the plaintiff and it assessed 95% of the fault for the smokers injuries to the smoker with 5% allocated to Lorillard Tobacco. The jury returned a verdict for Lorillard Tobacco as to whether plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages. The court entered a final judgment that incorporated the jurys determination of the parties fault and awarded plaintiff $11,250 in compensatory damages. Lorillard Tobacco paid approximately $246,000 to resolve the damages verdict, costs and fees. Following this payment, Sulcer was concluded. In Jewett v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al. (Circuit Court, Duval County, Florida), the jury awarded the estate of the decedent $692,981 in compensatory damages and awarded the plaintiff $400,000 for loss of companionship. The jury assessed 70% of the responsibility for the decedents injuries to the decedent, 20% to R.J. Reynolds and 10% to Lorillard Tobacco. The jury determined that no punitive damages were warranted. The final judgment entered by the trial court reflected the jurys verdict and awarded plaintiff a total of $109,298 from Lorillard Tobacco plus 6% annual interest. Defendants have noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Florida First District Court of Appeal. As of February 9, 2012, the trial court had not ruled on plaintiffs motion for costs and attorneys fees. In Weingart v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Palm Beach County, Florida), the jury determined that the decedent did not sustain any compensatory damages from the defendants, including Lorillard Tobacco, and it returned a verdict for the defendants that punitive damages were not warranted. The jury assessed 91% of the fault for the decedents injuries to the decedent, 3% to Lorillard Tobacco and 3% to each of the other two defendants. Following trial, the court granted in part a motion by the plaintiff to award damages, and it tentatively awarded plaintiff $150,000 in compensatory damages. The court entered a final judgment that applied the jurys comparative fault determinations to the courts award of compensatory damages. The final judgment awarded plaintiff $4,500 from Lorillard Tobacco. Defendants have noticed an appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal from the order that awarded compensatory damages to the plaintiff and have amended their notice of appeal to address the final judgment. As of February 9, 2012, the trial court had not ruled on plaintiffs motion for costs and attorneys fees. In Sury v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al., (Circuit Court, Duval County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff $1,000,000 in compensatory damages and assessed 60% of the responsibility for the decedents injuries to the decedent, 20% to Lorillard Tobacco and 20% to R.J. Reynolds. The jury returned a verdict for the defendants regarding whether punitive damages were warranted. As of February 9, 2012, the court has not yet entered a final judgment and had not ruled on defendants motion to set aside the verdict. 15 Table of Contents As of February 9, 2012, verdicts have been returned in 50 Engle Progeny Cases in which neither Lorillard Tobacco nor Lorillard, Inc. were defendants since the Florida Supreme Court issued its 2006 ruling. Juries awarded compensatory damages and punitive damages in 20 of these trials. The punitive damages awards have totaled approximately $600 million and have ranged from $50,000 to $244 million. In 12 of the trials, juries awarded only compensatory damages. In the 18 other trials, juries found in favor of the defendants. In some of the trials decided in the defendants favor, plaintiffs have filed motions challenging the verdicts. It is not possible to predict the final outcome of this litigation. Two Florida intermediate courts of appeal have affirmed verdicts awarding damages to the plaintiffs in seven Engle Progeny Cases as of February 9, 2012. The Florida Supreme Court denied review of four of these cases and the defendants have petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court. As of February 9, 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court had not determined whether to grant review of these four petitions. The defendant in another case has sought review by the Florida Supreme Court. As of February 9, 2012, the Florida Supreme Court had not announced whether it would review this case. Neither Lorillard Tobacco nor Lorillard, Inc. is a defendant in any of the seven cases in which the two Florida intermediate appellate courts affirmed the verdicts awarding damages to the plaintiffs. The judgment entered in the federal governments reimbursement case, while not final in all respects, could restrict or limit our defenses in other litigation. In August 2006, a final judgment and remedial order was entered in United States of America v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al. (U.S. District Court, District of Columbia, filed September 22, 1999). The court based its final judgment and remedial order on the governments only remaining claims, which were based on the defendants alleged violations of the Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO). Lorillard, Inc. is not a party to this matter, but Lorillard Tobacco is one of the defendants in the case. Although the verdict did not award monetary damages to the plaintiff, the final judgment and remedial order imposed a number of requirements on the defendants. Such requirements include, but are not limited to, the publishing of corrective statements by defendants related to the health effects of smoking. In 2009, a three judge panel of the Court of Appeals upheld substantially all of the District Courts final judgment and remedial order. In June 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the parties petitions seeking review of the case. The case has been returned to the U.S. District Court, District of Columbia for implementation of the Court of Appeals directions in its 2009 ruling and for entry of an amended final judgment. As of February 9, 2012, the trial court had not entered the amended final judgment. The 2006 final judgment and remedial order made many adverse findings regarding the conduct of the defendants. It is possible that the final opinion, final judgment and remedial order entered by the court could form the basis of allegations by the plaintiffs in other matters, or of additional judicial findings by other courts against cigarette manufacturers. It is possible that other courts could apply the findings in the United States of America case to restrict or otherwise limit our defenses in other litigation. A ruling by the United States Supreme Court could limit the ability of cigarette manufacturers to contend that certain claims asserted against them in product liability litigation are barred. The Supreme Courts decision also could encourage litigation involving cigarettes labeled as lights or low tar. In December 2008, the United States Supreme Court issued a decision that neither the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act nor the Federal Trade Commissions regulation of cigarettes tar and nicotine disclosures preempts (or bars) some of plaintiffs claims. The decision also more broadly addresses the scope of preemption based on the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, and could significantly limit cigarette manufacturers arguments that certain of plaintiffs other claims in smoking and health litigation, including claims based on the alleged concealment of information with respect to the hazards of smoking, are preempted. In addition, the Supreme Courts ruling could encourage litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us, regarding the sale of cigarettes labeled as lights or low tar, and it may limit cigarette manufacturers ability to defend such claims. The Supreme Court issued this ruling in a purported lights class action, Good v. Altria Group, Inc. We were not a defendant in Good. 16 Table of Contents The U.S. Surgeon General has issued a report regarding the risks of cigarette smoking to non smokers that could result in additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, additional restrictions placed on the use of cigarettes, and additional regulations placed on the manufacture or sale of cigarettes. In a report entitled The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke: A Report of the Surgeon General, 2006, the U.S. Surgeon General summarized conclusions from previous Surgeon Generals reports concerning the health effects of exposure to second hand smoke by non smokers. According to this report, scientific evidence now supports six major conclusions: Second hand smoke causes premature death and disease in children and in adults who do not smoke. Children exposed to second hand smoke are at an increased risk for sudden infant death syndrome, acute respiratory infections and ear problems. Exposure of adults to second hand smoke has immediate adverse effects on the cardiovascular system and causes heart disease and lung cancer. The scientific evidence indicates that there is no risk free level of exposure to second hand smoke. Many millions of Americans, both children and adults, are exposed to second hand smoke in their homes and workplaces. Eliminating smoking in indoor spaces fully protects non smokers from exposure to second hand smoke. Separating smokers from non smokers, cleaning the air, and ventilating buildings cannot eliminate exposures of non smokers to second hand smoke. This report could form the basis of additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us. The report has been and in the future could be used to support existing litigation against us or other cigarette manufacturers. It also is possible that the Surgeon Generals report could result in additional restrictions placed on cigarette smoking or in additional regulations placed on the manufacture or sale of cigarettes. It is possible that such additional restrictions or regulations could result in a decrease in cigarette sales in the United States, including sales of our brands. These developments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We have substantial payment obligations under the State SettlementAgreements which will have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and operating income in future periods. In 1998, Lorillard Tobacco, Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco) (the Original Participating Manufacturers) entered into the MSA with 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. We and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (the Initial State Settlements and, together with the MSA, are referred to as the State Settlement Agreements). Under the State Settlement Agreements, we paid $1.219 billion in 2011 and estimate that we will pay between $1.350 billion and $1.400 billion in 2012, primarily based on 2011 estimated industry volume. Annual payments under the State Settlement Agreements are required to be paid in perpetuity and are based, among other things, on our domestic market share and unit volume of domestic shipments, with respect to the MSA, in the year preceding the year in which payment is due, and, with respect to the Initial State Settlements, in the year in which payment is due. In the fourth quarter 2011, RAI, the parent of RJR Tobacco, announced a change to a mark to market pension accounting method. Such method of accounting for pension and postretirement benefits results in the recognition of actuarial gains and losses on pension and postretirement plan assets or benefit obligations in the year it is incurred rather than amortized over the average future service period of the active employees in such plans. Amounts due under the State Settlement Agreements are impacted by a number of factors, including industry volume, market share and industry operating profits. As a result of the change to mark to market pension accounting announced by RAI, the industry operating profits as defined in the State Settlement Agreements may be impacted positively or negatively in any given year. For example, in 2011 RAIs mark to market pension adjustment resulted in a $3 million reduction in our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements. It is possible that our State Settlement Agreement obligations, results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be materially adversely affected by RAIs mark to market adjustments in the future. 17 Table of Contents We are unable to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of certain material pending litigation. We record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Except for the impact of the State Settlement Agreements as described above, while it is reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, (i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any material pending litigation against us, (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any material pending litigation due to the many variables, uncertainties and complexities surrounding pending litigation, and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for possible losses related to material pending litigation. It is possible that our results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period or its financial position could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending or future litigation or an inability to secure bonds where required to stay the execution of judgments on appeal. We may not be able to develop, produce or commercialize competitive new products and technologies required by regulatory changes or changes in consumer preferences. Consumer health concerns and changes in regulations are likely to require us to introduce new products or make substantial changes to existing products. For example, all 50 states and the District of Columbia have passed legislation requiring cigarette manufacturers to reduce the ignition propensity of their products. We believe that there may be increasing pressure from public health authorities to develop a conventional cigarette, an alternative cigarette or an alternative tobacco product that provides a demonstrable reduced risk of adverse health effects. Certain of the other major cigarette makers have already developed and marketed alternative cigarette products. We may not be able to develop a reduced risk product that is acceptable to consumers. In addition, the costs associated with developing any such new products and technologies could be substantial. We face intense competition and our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, service, marketing, advertising and price. We are subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of our business. The competitive environment and our competitive position can be significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, erosion of consumer confidence, competitors introduction of low priced products or innovative products, higher cigarette taxes, higher absolute prices and larger gaps between price categories, and product regulation that diminishes the ability to differentiate tobacco products. Our principal competitors are the two other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, Philip Morris and RJR Tobacco. We also compete against numerous other smaller manufacturers or importers of cigarettes. If our major competitors were to significantly increase the level of price discounts offered to consumers, we could respond by increasing price discounts, which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. We are subject to important limitations on advertising and marketing cigarettes that could harm our competitive position. Television and radio advertisements of tobacco products have been prohibited since 1971. Under the State Settlement Agreements, we generally cannot use billboard advertising, cartoon characters, sponsorship of concerts, non tobacco merchandise bearing Lorillards brand names and various other advertising and marketing techniques. In addition, the MSA prohibits the targeting of youth in advertising, promotion or marketing of tobacco products. Accordingly, we have determined not to advertise our cigarettes in magazines with large readership among people under the age of 18. On June 22, 2009 the federal Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act was signed into law granting authority over the regulation of tobacco products to the FDA. Pursuant to the FSPTCA, the FDA reissued a set of marketing and sales restrictions originally promulgated in 1995 as part of an unsuccessful effort by the agency to assert jurisdiction over tobacco products. The FSPTCA contains other restrictions on the advertising, 18 Table of Contents marketing and sale of cigarette products more stringent than those found in the original FDA rule. In addition, many states, cities and counties have enacted legislation or regulations further restricting tobacco advertising, marketing and sales promotions, and others may do so in the future. Additional restrictions may be imposed or agreed to in the future. These limitations may make it difficult to maintain the value of an existing brand if sales or market share decline for any reason. Moreover, these limitations significantly impair the ability of cigarette manufacturers, including us, to launch new premium brands. Changes in laws, regulations and other requirements could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition to the regulation of our business by the FDA, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected by new or future legal requirements imposed by legislative or regulatory initiatives, including but not limited to those relating to health care reform, climate change and environmental matters. For example, the health care reform legislation, which was signed into law in March 2010, resulted in the repeal of $2 million of future tax deductions for Medicare Part D subsidies for our retiree drug benefits and could impact our accounting for retiree medical benefits, employer sponsored medical plans and related matters in future periods. However, the extent of that impact, if any, cannot be determined until regulations are promulgated and additional interpretations of the health care law are available. New legislation or regulations may result in increased costs directly for our compliance or indirectly to the extent such requirements increase the prices of goods and services because of increased costs or reduced availability. We cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory initiatives will result in significant changes to existing laws and regulations and or whether any changes in such laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Sales of cigarettes are subject to substantial federal, state and local excise taxes. The federal excise tax on cigarettes was last increased on April 1, 2009 from $0.6166 per pack to $1.0066 per pack to finance health insurance for children. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, combined state and local excise taxes ranged from $0.17 to $5.85 per pack. Various states and localities have raised the excise tax on cigarettes substantially in recent years. During 2011, state excise tax increases on cigarette sales were implemented in three states and the District of Columbia ranging from $0.20 per pack to $0.40 per pack and one state excise tax decrease of $0.10 per pack in New Hampshire. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, the combined state and municipal taxes ranged from $0.17 to $5.85 per pack of cigarettes. It is our expectation that several states will propose further increases in 2012 and in subsequent years. We believe that increases in excise and similar taxes have had an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes. In addition, we believe that the 2009 increase in the federal excise tax, as well as possible future increases, the extent of which cannot be predicted, compounded by poor economic conditions, could result in further volume declines for the cigarette industry, including us, and an increased sales shift toward lower priced discount cigarettes rather than premium brands. We are dependent on the domestic cigarette business, which we expect to continue to contract. Although we conduct business in Puerto Rico, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands, our cigarette business in the 50 states of the United States (the domestic cigarette market) is currently our only significant business. The domestic cigarette market has generally been contracting and we expect it to continue to contract. We do not have foreign cigarette sales that could offset these effects, as we sold the international rights to substantially all of our brands, including Newport, in 1977. As a result of price increases, restrictions on advertising and promotions, increases in regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, increased pressure from anti tobacco groups and other factors, industry wide domestic cigarette shipments have decreased at a compound annual rate of approximately 3.6% during the period 2001 through 2011. Industry wide domestic cigarette shipments decreased by an estimated 3.5% for 2011 compared to 2010, 3.8% for 2010 compared to 2009, 8.6% for 2009 compared to 2008 and 3.3% for 2008 compared to 2007. We derive most of our revenue from one brand. Our largest selling brand, Newport, accounted for approximately 88.4% of our net sales for 2011. Our principal strategic plan revolves around the marketing and sales promotion in support of the Newport brand. We cannot ensure that we will continue to successfully implement our strategic plan with respect to Newport or that implementation of our strategic plan will result in the maintenance or growth of the Newport brand. 19 Table of Contents The use of significant amounts of promotion expenses and sales incentives in response to competitive actions and market price sensitivity may have a material adverse impact on our business. Since 1998, the cigarette market has been increasingly price competitive due to the impact of, among other things, higher state and local excise taxes and the market share of deep discount brands. In response to these and other competitor actions and pricing pressures, we have engaged in significant use of promotional expenses and sales incentives. The cost of these measures could have a material adverse impact on our business. We regularly review the results of our promotional spending activities and adjust our promotional spending programs in an effort to maintain our competitive position. Accordingly, unit sales volume and sales promotion costs in any period are not necessarily indicative of sales and costs that may be realized in subsequent periods. We rely on a limited number of key executives and may continue to experience difficulty in attracting and hiring qualified new personnel in some areas of our business. The loss of any of our key employees could adversely affect our business. As a tobacco company, we may experience difficulty in identifying and hiring qualified executives and other personnel in some areas of our business. This difficulty is primarily attributable to the health and social issues associated with the tobacco industry. The loss of services of any key personnel or our inability to attract and hire personnel with requisite skills could restrict our ability to develop new products, enhance existing products in a timely manner, sell products or manage our business effectively. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Increased restrictions on smoking in public places could adversely affect our sales volume, revenue and profitability. In recent years, states and many local and municipal governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, have adopted legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit, restrict, or discourage smoking; smoking in public buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars; and smoking on airline flights and in the workplace. Other similar laws and regulations are currently under consideration and may be enacted by state and local governments in the future. Although we have no empirical evidence of the effect of such restrictions, we believe that restrictions on smoking in public and other places may lead to a decrease in the number of people who smoke or a decrease in the number of cigarettes smoked by smokers. Increased restrictions on smoking in public and other places may have caused a decrease, and may continue to cause a decrease in the volume of cigarettes that would otherwise be sold by us absent such restrictions, which may have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits. We rely on a single manufacturing facility for the production of our cigarettes. We produce all of our cigarettes at our Greensboro, North Carolina manufacturing facility. If our manufacturing plant is damaged, destroyed or incapacitated or we are otherwise unable to operate our manufacturing facility, we may be unable to produce cigarettes and may be unable to meet customer demand which could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits. We rely on a small number of suppliers for certain of our domestic leaf tobacco and reconstituted tobacco. We purchased approximately 70% of our domestic leaf tobacco through one supplier in 2009, 2010 and 2011, Alliance One International, Inc. (Alliance One). If Alliance One becomes unwilling or unable to supply leaf tobacco to us, we believe that leaf tobacco may not be available at prices comparable to those we pay to Alliance One, which could have a material adverse effect on our future profits. In addition, we purchase all of our reconstituted tobacco from one supplier, which is an affiliate of RAI, one of our major competitors. Reconstituted tobacco is a form of tobacco material manufactured as a paper like sheet from small pieces of tobacco that are too small to incorporate into the cigarette directly and may include some tobacco stems, and which is used as a component of cigarette blends. If RAI becomes unwilling or unable to supply us and we are unable to find an alternative supplier on a timely basis, our operations could be disrupted resulting in lower production levels and reduced sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits in the future. 20 Table of Contents The availability of counterfeit cigarettes could adversely affect our sales volume, revenue and profitability. Sales of counterfeit cigarettes in the United States, including counterfeits of our Newport brand, could adversely impact sales by the manufacturers of the brands that are counterfeited and potentially damage the value and reputation of those brands. Additionally, smokers who mistake counterfeit cigarettes for our cigarettes may attribute quality and taste deficiencies in the counterfeit product to our brands and discontinue purchasing our brands. Although we do not believe that sales of counterfeit Newport cigarettes have had a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits to date, the availability of counterfeit Newport cigarettes together with the potential regulation of cigarettes and their ingredients, substantial increases in excise taxes and other potential price increases could result in increased demand for counterfeit product that could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits in the future. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. Our ability to maintain and further build brand recognition is dependent on the continued and exclusive use of our trademarks, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logo and the unique features of our tobacco products. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are ineffective, thereby permitting a third party to misappropriate or infringe on our intellectual property, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and might prevent our brands from growing or maintaining market share. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by laws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our Common Stock. Our certificate of incorporation and by laws contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include: a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; elimination of the right of our shareholders to act by written consent; rules regarding how our shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding Common Stock. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our board with time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to prevent such takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in our best interests and those of our shareholders. The Separation Agreement between us and Loews contains provisions that may prevent or discourage other companies from acquiring us. The tax free nature of the Separation may be affected by certain transactions undertaken by us. In particular, under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Separation would become taxable to Loews if it was determined that 50% or more of the shares of our Common Stock were acquired, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Separation. If, as a result of acquisitions of our Common Stock subsequent to the Separation, the Separation becomes taxable pursuant to Section 355(e), Loews would recognize 21 Table of Contents a substantial gain for tax purposes as the Separation would be treated as a sale of Lorillard for federal income tax purposes. The Separation Agreement requires us (and any successor entity) to indemnify Loews for any losses resulting from the failure of the Separation to qualify as a tax free transaction (except if the failure to qualify is solely due to Loewss fault). This indemnification obligation applies regardless of whether the action is restricted as described above, or whether we or a potential acquirer obtains a supplemental ruling or an opinion of counsel. These restrictions and potential indemnification obligations may prevent or discourage other companies from acquiring us. We are required to indemnify Loews against losses and other expenses incurred at any time (including with respect to smoking and health claims and litigation) with respect to our assets, properties and businesses. In the Separation Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify Loews and its officers, directors, employees and agents against costs and expenses (including, but not limited to, litigation matters and other claims) based on, arising out of or resulting from, among other things, the ownership or the operation of us and our assets and properties, and the operation or conduct of us and our businesses at any time prior to or following the Separation (including with respect to smoking and health claims and litigation). If Loews incurs legal or other fees or costs and expenses resulting from the operation of our businesses or otherwise with respect to us, we are required to reimburse Loews for such losses and any legal or other fees related thereto, which could be substantial. These indemnification obligations may discourage third parties from trying to acquire us because our indemnification obligations are binding on our successors and we are prohibited by the Separation Agreement from merging, consolidating or transferring all or a significant portion of our properties or assets unless the resulting entity, transferee or successor agrees to be bound by these indemnification obligations. In addition, we could face substantial charges for indemnification payments to Loews, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We do not believe the Separation has altered or will alter our legal exposure with respect to tobacco related claims. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 2. PROPERTIES Our manufacturing facility is located on approximately 80 acres in Greensboro, North Carolina. This 854,300 square foot plant contains modern high speed cigarette manufacturing machinery. The Greensboro facility also includes a warehouse with shipping and receiving areas totaling 187,300 square feet. In addition, we own tobacco receiving and storage facilities totaling approximately 1,400,000 square feet in Danville, Virginia. Our executive offices are located in a 130,000 square foot, four story office building in Greensboro. Our 93,800 square foot research facility is also located in Greensboro. Our principal properties are owned in fee and generally we own all of the machinery we use. We believe that our properties and machinery are in generally good condition. We lease sales offices in major cities throughout the United States, a cold storage facility in Greensboro and warehousing space in 18 public distribution warehouses located throughout the United States. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Information regarding legal proceedings is set forth in Note 19 Legal Proceedings to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report. The disclosure set forth in Note 19 Legal Proceedings is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None. 22 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASE OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Our Common Stock began trading regular way on the NYSE under the symbol LO on June 10, 2008. There were 73 shareholders of record as of February 15, 2012. This figure excludes any estimate of the indeterminate number of beneficial holders whose shares may be held of record by brokerage firms and clearing agencies. The following table presents the high and low sales prices of our Common Stock on the NYSE as well as cash dividends declared per share during the fiscal quarters indicated: Common Stock Market Price Price per Share Cash DividendsDeclared High Low Per Share 2011 Fourth Quarter $ 120.00 $ 106.46 $ 1.30 Third Quarter 113.67 97.38 1.30 Second Quarter 116.90 94.44 1.30 First Quarter 97.04 72.40 1.30 2010 Fourth Quarter $ 89.71 $ 78.54 $ 1.125 Third Quarter 83.03 70.87 1.125 Second Quarter 82.26 70.24 1.00 First Quarter 81.74 72.07 1.00 Dividend Policy Lorillards current policy is to return approximately 70 75% of its earnings to shareholders in the form of dividends over the long term. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our Common Stock will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our business, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, and other factors that the Board of Directors may deem relevant. As a holding company with no material liquid assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries, our ability to pay dividends is dependent on the receipt of dividends from our operating subsidiaries. In 2011, we paid cash dividends of $188 million, $185 million, $177 million and $173 million on March 11, 2011, June 10, 2011, September 12, 2011 and December 12, 2011, respectively. In 2010, we paid cash dividends of $155 million, $152 million, $171 million and $167 million on March 11, 2010, June 11, 2010, September 10, 2010 and December 13, 2010, respectively. In 2009, we paid cash dividends of $155 million, $155 million, $163 million and $158 million on March 12, 2009, June 12, 2009, September 11, 2009 and December 11, 2009, respectively. We expect to continue to pay cash dividends on our Common Stock. 23 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our Common Stock from June 10, 2008, the date our Common Stock commenced trading on a when issued basis, to December 31, 2011 with the comparable cumulative return of (i) the S&P 500 Index and (ii) the S&P Tobacco Index. The graph assumes $100 was invested on June 10, 2008 in our Common Stock and in each of the indices and assumes that all cash dividends are reinvested. The table below the graph shows the dollar value of those investments as of the dates in the graph. The comparisons in the graph are required by the SEC and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of future performance of our Common Stock. 06/10/08 06/30/08 12/31/08 06/30/09 12/31/09 06/30/10 12/31/10 06/30/11 12/31/11 Lorillard Common Stock 100.00 90.25 75.59 93.59 113.75 104.84 122.96 167.76 179.85 S&P 500 Index 100.00 94.23 66.49 67.67 82.09 75.87 92.58 97.22 92.58 S&P 500 Tobacco Index 100.00 97.77 83.79 86.48 99.21 95.97 120.09 136.12 156.21 The performance graph and related information above shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers In the fourth quarter of 2011, we repurchased the following number of shares of our Common Stock: (In millions, except for per share amounts) TotalNumberof SharesPurchased AveragePricePaid PerShare Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlansor Programs ApproximateDollar ValueofShares thatMay Yet BePurchasedUnder thePlansor Programs October 1, 2011 October 31, 2011 0.9 $ 114.41 0.9 $ 452 November 1, 2011 November 30, 2011 1.3 $ 108.84 1.3 $ 306 December 1, 2011 December 31, 2011 1.1 $ 110.82 1.1 $ 187 Total 3.3 $ 110.98 3.3 24 Table of Contents The shares repurchased were acquired under the share repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors on August 12, 2011 for a maximum of $750 million. All repurchases were made in open market transactions. We record the repurchase of shares of Common Stock at cost based on the transaction date of the repurchase. As of December 31, 2011, the maximum dollar value of shares that could yet be purchased under the August 12, 2011 repurchase program was $187 million. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table includes our selected historical consolidated financial information as of the dates and for the periods indicated. The selected historical consolidated financial information as of and for the years ended December 31, 2007 through 2011 have been derived from our audited financial statements. You should read the following selected historical consolidated financial data in conjunction with Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing herein. Years Ended December 31, (In millions, except per share data) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Results of Operations: Net sales (1) $ 6,466 $ 5,932 $ 5,233 $ 4,204 $ 3,969 Cost of sales (1) 4,123 3,809 3,327 2,434 2,313 Gross profit 2,343 2,123 1,906 1,770 1,656 Selling, general and administrative (2) 451 398 365 355 382 Operating income (3) 1,892 1,725 1,541 1,415 1,274 Investment income (4) 3 4 5 20 109 Interest expense (125 ) (94 ) (27 ) (1 ) Income before income taxes 1,770 1,635 1,519 1,434 1,383 Income taxes 654 606 571 547 485 Net income $ 1,116 $ 1,029 $ 948 $ 887 $ 898 Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding 139.35 151.79 164.62 172.21 173.92 Diluted earnings per share $ 7.99 $ 6.78 $ 5.76 $ 5.15 $ 5.16 Dividends per share $ 5.20 $ 4.25 $ 3.84 $ 4.67 $ 6.72 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 15.2 18.4 57.3 N/M N/M (1) Includes excise taxes of $2,014, $1,879, $1,547, $712 and $688 million, respectively. (2) 2008 included expenses of $18 million related to the Separation of Lorillard from Loews and 2007 included a $66 million charge related to litigation. (3) 2011 includes a favorable impact on tobacco settlement expense of $25 million resulting from a competitors adoption of mark to market pension accounting in the fourth quarter of 2011. Tobacco settlement expenses are impacted by a number of factors including industry profits, which were significantly reduced in the fourth quarter by the competitors accounting change. See further discussion under Results of Operations in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. (4) Includes interest income of $3, $4, $5, $21 and $75 million and income (loss) from limited partnership investments of $0, $0, $0, ($1) and $34 million, respectively. December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Financial Position: Current assets $ 2,564 $ 2,935 $ 2,181 $ 1,962 $2,103 Total assets 3,008 3,296 2,575 2,321 2,600 Current liabilities 1,485 1,426 1,337 1,273 1,188 Long term debt 2,595 1,769 722 Total liabilities 4,521 3,521 2,488 1,690 1,587 Shareholders equity (deficit) (1,513 ) (225 ) 87 631 1,013 25 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements, the notes related to those financial statements and Item 6. Selected Financial Data appearing herein. In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward looking statements based on current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results and the timing of certain events may differ significantly from those projected in such forward looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth in the Forward Looking Statements, Item 1A. Risk Factors, Business Environment and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The financial statements include our subsidiaries after the elimination of intercompany accounts and transactions. The consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, applied on a consistent basis. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. Significant estimates in the consolidated financial statements and related notes include: (1) accruals for tobacco settlement costs, legal expenses and litigation costs, sales incentive programs, income taxes and share based compensation, (2) the determination of discount and other rate assumptions for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit expenses and (3) the valuation of pension assets. In general, our estimates are based on historical experience, evaluation of current trends, information from third party professionals and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the known facts and circumstances at the time. We consider the accounting policies discussed below to be critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements as their application places the most significant demands on managements judgment. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved with this type of judgment, actual results could differ significantly from estimates and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and equity. Revenue Recognition Revenue from product sales, net of sales incentives, is recognized at the time ownership of the goods transfers to customers and collectability is reasonably assured. Federal excise taxes are recognized on a gross basis and are included in both sales and cost of sales. Sales incentives include retail price discounts, coupons and retail display allowances and are recorded as a reduction of revenue based on amounts estimated as due to customers and consumers at the end of a period based primarily on use and redemption rates. Tobacco Settlement Costs In 1998, Lorillard Tobacco, Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco) (the Original Participating Manufacturers) entered into the MSA with 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. We and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (which are referred to as the Initial State Settlements, and together with the MSA, are referred to as the State Settlement Agreements). Our portion of ongoing adjusted settlement payments and legal fees is based on our relative share of the settling manufacturers domestic cigarette shipments, with respect to the MSA, in the year preceding that in which the payment is due, and, with respect to the Initial State Settlements, in the year in which payment is due. We record our portion of ongoing adjusted settlement payments as part of cost of sales as product is shipped. Please read State Settlement Agreements beginning on page 37 for additional information. 26 Table of Contents Tobacco and Other Litigation We and other cigarette manufacturers continue to be confronted with substantial litigation. Plaintiffs in most of the cases seek unspecified amounts of compensatory damages and punitive damages, although some seek damages ranging into the billions of dollars. Plaintiffs in some of the cases seek treble damages, statutory damages, return of profits, equitable and injunctive relief, and medical monitoring, among other damages. We believe that we have valid defenses to the cases pending against us. We also believe we have valid bases for appeal of the adverse verdicts against us. While we intend to defend vigorously all tobacco products liability litigation, it is not possible to predict the outcome of any of this litigation. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these actions could be decided unfavorably. We may enter into discussions in an attempt to settle particular cases if we believe it is appropriate to do so. We establish accruals in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 450, Contingencies (ASC 450), when a material litigation liability is both probable and can be reasonably estimated. There are a number of factors impacting our ability to estimate the possible loss or a range of loss, including the specific facts of each matter; the legal theories proffered by plaintiffs and legal defenses available to us; the wide ranging outcomes reached in similar cases; differing procedural and substantive laws in the various jurisdictions in which lawsuits have been filed, including whether punitive damages may be pursued or are permissible; the degree of specificity in a plaintiffs complaint; the history of the case and whether discovery has been completed; plaintiffs history of use of our cigarettes relative to those of the other defendants; the attribution of damages, if any, among multiple defendants; the application of contributory and or comparative negligence to the allocation of damage awards among plaintiffs and defendants; the likelihood of settlements for de minimus amounts prior to trial; the likelihood of success at trial; the likelihood of success on appeal; and the impact of current and pending state and federal appellate decisions. It has been our experience and is our continued expectation that the above complexities and uncertainties will not be clarified until the late stages of litigation. For those reasonably possible loss contingencies for which an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss cannot be made, we disclose the nature of the litigation and any developments as appropriate. We monitor the status of all outstanding litigation on an ongoing basis in order to determine the probability of loss and assess whether an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss can be determined. In evaluating litigation, we consider, among other things, the nature of the claims; the jurisdiction in which the claims have been filed and the law and case law developed in that jurisdiction; the experience of plaintiffs counsel in this type of litigation; the parties respective litigation strategies; the stage of the proceedings; the outcome of the matters at trial or on appeal; the type and amount of damages claimed by plaintiffs; the outcomes and damage awards, if any, for similar matters brought against us and or the tobacco industry; and the possibility and likelihood of success on appeal. Our assessment of a possible loss or range of loss is based on our assessment of the final outcome of the litigation upon the conclusion of all appeals. We record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Except for the impact of the State Settlement Agreements as described above, while it is reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, (i) we have concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any material pending litigation against us, (ii) we are unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any material pending litigation due to the many variables, uncertainties and complexities described above, and (iii) accordingly, we have not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for possible losses related to material pending litigation. It is possible that our results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period or its financial position could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending or future litigation or an inability to secure bonds where required to stay the execution of judgments on appeal. Defense costs associated with product liability claims are a significant component of our selling, general and administrative expenses and are accrued as incurred. Defense costs may increase in future periods, in part, as a result of the Engle Progeny Cases as described in Note 19, Legal Proceedings, to our consolidated financial statements beginning on page 73. Numerous factors affect product liability defense costs in any given period. The principal factors are as follows: the number and types of cases filed and appealed; 27 Table of Contents the number of cases tried and appealed; the development of the law; the application of new or different theories of liability by plaintiffs and their counsel; and litigation strategy and tactics. Please read Note 19 Legal Proceedings, to our consolidated financial statements beginning on page 73 for detailed information regarding tobacco litigation affecting us. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations We are required to make a significant number of assumptions in order to estimate the liabilities and costs related to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to employees under our benefit plans. The assumptions that have the most impact on pension costs are the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets and the expected rate of compensation increases. These assumptions are evaluated relative to current market factors such as inflation, interest rates and fiscal and monetary policies. Changes in these assumptions can have a material impact on pension obligations and pension expense. In determining the discount rate assumption, we utilized current market information and liability information, including a discounted cash flow analysis of our pension and postretirement obligations. In particular, the basis for our discount rate selection was the yield on indices of highly rated fixed income debt securities with durations comparable to that of our plan liabilities. The discount rate was determined by projecting the plans expected future benefit payments as defined for the projected benefit obligation, discounting those expected payments using a theoretical zero coupon spot yield curve derived from a universe of high quality bonds as of the measurement date, and solving for the single equivalent discount rate that resulted in the same projected benefit obligation. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience and future and near term outlook. Long term return on plan assets is determined based on historical portfolio results, asset allocations and managements expectation of the future economic environment. Our major assumptions are set forth in Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 56. For 2011, hypothetical changes in the assumptions we used for the pension plans would have had the following impact on our pension expense: A decrease of 25 basis points in the long term rate of return would have increased our pension expense by approximately $2.4 million; A decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate would have increased our pension expense by approximately $2.6 million; and An increase of 25 basis points in the future salary growth rate would have increased our net pension expense by approximately $0.8 million. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with Accounting Standard Codification Topic 740 Income Taxes. Under ASC 740, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions. The uncertain tax provisions of ASC 740 prescribe a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Additionally, ASC 740 provides guidance on the measurement, derecognition, classification and disclosure of tax positions, along with accounting for the related interest and penalties. 28 Table of Contents Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost, determined on a last in, first out (LIFO) basis, or market. The inventory of leaf tobacco is classified as a current asset in accordance with generally recognized trade practice although, due to the duration of the aging processes, a significant portion of the tobacco on hand will not be sold or used within one year. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please read Recently adopted accounting pronouncements in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 46. Business Environment Participants in the U.S. tobacco industry, including us, face a number of issues that have adversely affected their results of operations and financial condition in the past and will continue to do so, including: A substantial volume of litigation seeking compensatory and punitive damages ranging into the billions of dollars, as well as equitable and injunctive relief, arising out of allegations of cancer and other health effects resulting from the use of cigarettes, addiction to smoking or exposure to environmental tobacco smoke, including claims for economic damages relating to alleged misrepresentation concerning the use of descriptors such as lights, as well as other alleged damages. Substantial annual payments continuing in perpetuity, and significant restrictions on marketing and advertising have been agreed to and are required under the terms of certain settlement agreements, including the Master Settlement Agreement among major tobacco manufacturers and 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions (the MSA) that we entered into in 1998 along with Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco) (the other Original Participating Manufacturers) to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. We and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (the Initial State Settlements, and together with the MSA, the State Settlement Agreements). The State Settlement Agreements impose a stream of future payment obligations on us and on the other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers as product is sold and place significant restrictions on our and their ability to market and sell cigarettes. The domestic cigarette market, in which we conduct our only significant business, continues to contract. As a result of price increases, restrictions on advertising, promotions and smoking in public and private facilities, increases in regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, increased pressure from anti tobacco groups and other factors, domestic cigarette shipments have decreased at a compound rate of approximately 3.6% from 2001 through 2011. Increases in cigarette prices since 1998 have led to an increase in the volume of discount and, specifically, deep discount cigarettes. Cigarette price increases have been driven by increases in federal, state and local excise taxes and by manufacturer price increases. Price increases have led, and continue to lead, to high levels of discounting and other promotional activities for premium brands. Deep discount brands have grown from an estimated domestic shipment share in 1998 of less than 2.0% to an estimated share of 13.9% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, and continue to be a significant competitive factor in the domestic cigarette market. We do not have sufficient empirical data to determine whether the increased price of cigarettes has deterred consumers from starting to smoke or encouraged them to quit smoking, but it is likely that increased prices may have had an adverse effect on consumption and may continue to do so. The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasing regulation. In June 2009, the U.S. Congress passed, and the President signed into law, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the FSPTCA) granting the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products. Pursuant to the terms of the FSPTCA, the FDA established the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee (the TPSAC) to evaluate, among other things, the impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health. In March 2011, the TPSAC issued its report to the FDA stating that removal of menthol cigarettes from the marketplace would benefit public health. On July 21, 2011, TPSAC considered revisions 29 Table of Contents to its report, and the voting members unanimously approved the final report for submission to the FDA with no change in its recommendation. The FDA could promulgate regulations that, among other things, could result in a ban on or restrict the use of menthol in cigarettes. The law imposes and will impose new restrictions on the manner in which cigarettes can be advertised and marketed, requires larger and more severe health warnings on cigarette packaging, permits restriction of the level of tar and nicotine contained in or yielded by cigarettes and may alter the way cigarette products are developed and manufactured. On June 27, 2011, the FDA provided a progress report on its review of the science related to menthol cigarettes. In its Menthol Update, the FDA stated that [e]xperts within the FDA Center for Tobacco Products are conducting an independent review of the science related to the impact [of menthol] in cigarettes on public health The FDA also stated that it will submit its draft independent review of menthol science to an external peer review panel in July 2011, and that following the peer review period (originally announced as three and one half months), the FDA will make available the results of the peer review and its preliminary scientific assessment for public comment. On January 26, 2012, the FDA stated that its report had been submitted to the peer review panel and comments had been received from the panel on the report. The FDA also indicated that its final report, including the peer review comments, will be released for public comment at a future date. In August 2009, we, along with RJR Tobacco, other tobacco manufacturers and a tobacco retailer, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky against the FDA challenging the constitutionality of certain restrictions on speech included in the FSPTCA. These restrictions on speech include, among others, bans on the use of color and graphics in certain tobacco product advertising, limits on the right to make truthful statements regarding modified risk tobacco products, a prohibition on making certain statements about the FDAs regulation of tobacco products, restrictions on the placement of outdoor advertising, a ban on certain promotions offering gifts in consideration for the purchase of tobacco products, a ban on brand name sponsorship of events and the sale of brand name merchandise, and a ban on the distribution of product samples. The suit also challenges the laws requirement for extensive graphic warning labels on all packaging and advertising. The complaint seeks a judgment (i) declaring that such provisions of the law violate the First and or Fifth Amendments of the U.S. Constitution and (ii) enjoining the FDA from enforcing the unconstitutional provisions of the law. On January 4, 2010, the district court issued an order (a) striking down the provisions of the law that banned the use of color and graphics in certain tobacco product advertising and prohibited tobacco manufacturers from making certain statements about the FDAs regulation of tobacco products and (b) upholding the remaining challenged advertising provisions. Both sides have appealed the district courts ruling to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, and the appeal has been fully briefed and argued. While we believe there is established legal precedent supporting our claims we cannot predict the outcome of any such appeal. Nor can we make any assurances that any such appeal will be successful. In February 2011, we, along with RJR Tobacco, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the FDA challenging the composition of the TPSAC because of the FDAs appointment of certain voting members with significant financial conflicts of interest. We believe these members are financially biased because they regularly testify as expert witnesses against tobacco product manufacturers, and because they are paid consultants for pharmaceutical companies that develop and market smoking cessation products. The suit similarly challenges the presence of certain conflicted individuals on the Constituents Subcommittee of the TPSAC. The complaint seeks a judgment (i) declaring that, among other things, the appointment of the conflicted individuals to the TPSAC (and its Constituents Subcommittee) was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, and otherwise not in compliance with the law because it prevented the TPSAC from preparing a report that was unbiased and untainted by conflicts of interest, and (ii) enjoining the FDA from, among other things, relying on the TPSACs report. The FDA has filed a motion to dismiss this action, the parties have briefed the issue and a hearing was scheduled for February 14, 2012. In August 2011, we, along with RJR Tobacco and several other tobacco manufacturers, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the FDA challenging the constitutionality of certain regulations requiring specific graphic warning labels on all packaging and advertising. The Complaint seeks a judgment (i) declaring that the regulations violate the First Amendment; (ii) declaring that the regulations violate various provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act; (iii) declaring that the textual and graphic warnings required under the 30 Table of Contents FSPTCA shall become effective 15 months after the FDA issues regulations that are permissible under the U.S. Constitution and federal law; and (iv) preliminarily and permanently enjoining enforcement of the regulations. Plaintiffs have moved for a preliminary injunction, and after full briefing and oral argument, the district court granted plaintiffs motion. The FDA has appealed that decision to the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. Briefing is ongoing, and oral argument is scheduled for April 2012. Plaintiffs also moved in the district court for summary judgment in their favor. The FDA has opposed Plaintiffs motion and has cross moved for summary judgment in its favor. The district court granted a motion to expedite consideration of the cross summary judgment motions. Oral argument on those motions was held on February 1, 2012 before the district court. As of February 9, 2012, the court has not ruled on the motions. The federal government and many state and local governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, have adopted legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit, restrict or discourage smoking, including legislation, regulations or policies prohibiting or restricting smoking in public buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars, on airline flights and in the workplace. Other similar laws and regulations are under consideration and may be enacted by federal, state and local governments in the future. Substantial federal, state and local excise taxes are reflected in the retail price of cigarettes. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, the federal excise tax was $1.0066 per pack and combined state and local excise taxes ranged from $0.17 to $5.85 per pack. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, excise tax increases ranging from $0.20 to $0.40 per pack were implemented in three states and the District of Columbia and one state excise tax decrease of $0.10 in New Hampshire. On June 21, 2010, New York state legislature approved a $1.60 per pack state excise tax increase that was implemented on July 1, 2010. The federal excise tax on cigarettes increased by $0.6166 per pack to $1.0066 per pack, effective April 1, 2009, to finance health insurance for children. It is likely that increases in excise and similar taxes have had an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes and that the most recent increase and future increases, the extent of which cannot be predicted, could result in further volume declines for the cigarette industry, including us, and an increased sales shift toward deep discount cigarettes rather than premium brands. In addition, we and other cigarette manufacturers and importers are required to pay an assessment under a federal law designed to fund payments to tobacco quota holders and growers and are required to pay an annual user fee to the FDA. The domestic market for cigarettes is highly competitive. Competition is primarily based on a brands taste; quality; price, including the level of discounting and other promotional activities; positioning; consumer loyalty; and retail display. Our principal competitors are the two other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, Philip Morris USA and RJR Tobacco. We also compete with numerous other smaller manufacturers and importers of cigarettes, including deep discount cigarette manufacturers. We believe our ability to compete even more effectively has been restrained in some marketing areas as a result of retail merchandising contracts offered by Philip Morris USA and RJR Tobacco which limit the retail shelf space available to our brands. As a result, in some retail locations we are limited in competitively supporting our promotional programs, which may constrain sales. 31 Table of Contents The following table presents selected Lorillard and industry shipment data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: Selected Industry Data (3) Year Ended December 31, (Volume in billions) 2011 2010 2009 Lorillard total domestic unit volume (1) 40.034 37.433 35.560 Industry total domestic unit volume (1) 293.098 303.679 315.735 Lorillards premium volume as a percentage of its total volume (2) 85.6% 86.6% 89.2% Newports share of Lorillards total volume (2) 84.5% 85.2% 87.5% Newports share of Lorillards net sales (2) 88.4% 88.8% 90.0% (1) Source: Management Science Associates, Inc. (MSAI), an independent third party database management organization that collects wholesale shipment data from various cigarette manufacturers. MSAI divides the cigarette market into two price segments, the premium price segment and the discount or reduced price segment. MSAIs information relating to unit sales volume and market share of certain of the smaller, primarily deep discount, cigarette manufacturers is based on estimates derived by MSAI. Management believes that volume and market share information for deep discount manufacturers may be understated. (2) Source: Lorillard shipment reports. (3) Domestic unit volume includes units sold as well as promotional units and excludes volumes for Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions. The following table presents selected Lorillard and industry retail market share data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, based on Lorillards proprietary retail shipment data, EXCEL, which reflects shipments from wholesalers to retailers. Selected Domestic Retail Market Share Data(1) Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Lorillards share of the retail market 14.1 % 12.9 % 11.8 % Lorillards share of the premium market 16.5 % 15.2 % 14.3 % Lorillards share of the menthol market (2) 39.1 % 38.4 % 36.9 % Newports share of the retail market 11.9 % 10.9 % 10.3 % Newports share of the premium market 16.3 % 15.0 % 14.0 % Newports share of the menthol market (2) 36.2 % 36.0 % 35.1 % Total menthol segment market share for the industry (2) 30.6 % 30.0 % 29.3 % Total discount segment market share for the industry 27.1 % 26.9 % 26.7 % (1) Source: Lorillards proprietary retail shipment data, EXCEL, which reflect shipments from wholesalers to retailers. (2) Lorillard has made certain adjustments to its proprietary retail shipment data to reflect managements judgment as to which brands are included in the menthol segment. Income Statement Captions Net sales includes revenue from product sales, net of sales incentives, and is recognized at the time that ownership of the goods transfers to customers and collectability is reasonably assured. Federal excise taxes are recognized on a gross basis, and are included in both net sales and cost of sales. Sales incentives include retail price discounts, coupons and retail display allowances, and are recorded as a reduction of revenue based on amounts estimated as due to customers and consumers at the end of a period based primarily on use and redemption rates. Cost of sales includes federal excise taxes, leaf tobacco cost, wrapping and casing material, manufacturing labor and production salaries, wages and overhead, depreciation related to manufacturing plant and equipment, research and development costs, distribution, other manufacturing costs, State Settlement Agreement expenses, the federal assessment for tobacco growers and promotional product expenses. Promotional product expenses include the cost, including all applicable excise taxes, of the free portion of buy some get some free promotions. 32 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses includes sales force expenses, legal and other costs of litigating and administering product liability claims, administrative expenses and advertising and marketing costs. Advertising and marketing costs include items such as direct mail, advertising, agency fees and point of sale materials. Investment income includes interest and dividend income, realized gains and losses on sale of investments and equity in the earnings of limited partnership investments. Interest expense includes interest expense related to debt and income taxes. Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2011 Compared to the Year ended December 31, 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Net sales (including excise taxes of $2,014 and $1,879) $ 6,466 $ 5,932 Cost of sales 4,123 3,809 Gross profit 2,343 2,123 Selling, general and administrative 451 398 Operating income 1,892 1,725 Investment income 3 4 Interest expense (125 ) (94 ) Income before income taxes 1,770 1,635 Income taxes 654 606 Net income $ 1,116 $ 1,029 Net sales. Net sales increased by $534 million, or 9.0%, from $5.932 billion in 2010 to $6.466 billion in 2011. Net sales increased $486 million due to higher unit sales volume (including $135 million of federal excise tax) and $150 million due to higher average unit prices reflecting price increases in February, May and November 2010 and July and December 2011. These increases were partially offset by $102 million of higher sales incentives in 2011. Federal excise taxes are included in net sales and increased $30.83 per thousand units, or $0.62 per pack of 20 units, to $50.33 per thousand cigarettes, or $1.01 per pack of 20 cigarettes, effective April 1, 2009. Total Lorillard wholesale unit volume, which includes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, increased 6.9% during 2011 compared 2010. Domestic unit volume, which excludes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, also increased 6.9% in 2011 compared to 2010. Unit volume figures in this section are provided on a gross basis. Total unit volume for Newport, the Companys flagship brand, increased 6.0% in 2011 and domestic Newport unit volume increased 6.1% in 2011 compared to 2010. Domestic wholesale shipments for Maverick, the Companys leading discount brand, increased 16.0% in 2011 compared 2010. Total cigarette industry domestic wholesale shipments decreased an estimated 3.5% in 2011 compared to 2010. Based on our proprietary retail shipment data (Excel), which measures shipments from wholesale to retail and is unaffected by changes in wholesale inventory patterns, Lorillards domestic retail market share increased 1.2 share points in 2011 to 14.1%. Newports domestic retail market share reached 11.9% during 2011, an increase of 1.0 share points compared to 2010. The Companys strategic initiatives including the successful launch of Newport Non Menthol, geographic expansion initiatives on Newport Menthol and continued retail shipment growth on Maverick accounted for the increase in volume and market share growth. Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by $314 million, or 8.2%, from $3.809 billion in 2010 to $4.123 billion in 2011. The increase in cost of sales is primarily due to higher unit sales volume ($166 million, including $135 million of federal excise tax), higher raw material costs, primarily tobacco and wrapping materials ($28 million), higher expenses related to the State Settlement Agreements ($95 million), higher Food and Drug Administration fees ($25 million) and the Federal Assessment for Tobacco Growers ($9 million). We recorded pre tax charges for our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements of $1.307 billion and $1.212 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, an increase of $95 million. The $95 million increase is due to the impact of higher unit sales ($93), the impact of the inflation adjustment ($36 million), partially offset by other adjustments ($34 million). Other adjustments include a favorable impact on tobacco settlement expense of $25 million resulting 33 Table of Contents from a competitors adoption of mark to market pension accounting in the fourth quarter of 2011. The reduction in our costs associated with the mark to market adjustment reported by Reynolds American amounted to approximately $3 million and was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011. In addition, industry operating profits reported in prior years were reduced as a result of the restatement arising from Reynolds Americans accounting change, which had the effect of further reducing the amounts due under the State Settlement Agreements by approximately $22 million. Tobacco settlement expenses are impacted by a number of factors including industry profits, which were significantly reduced in the fourth quarter by the competitors accounting change. Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $53 million, or 13.3%, from $398 million in 2010 to $451 million in 2011. The increase in 2011 is primarily a result of higher legal costs related to the Engle Progeny litigation. In addition, certain other selling, general and administrative costs increased due to higher compensation costs and higher administrative costs incurred in support of strategic initiatives, including market research and advertising costs related to the launch of Newport Non Menthol, as well as costs incurred in support of the Companys position and industry reports to the FDA regarding the use of Menthol in cigarettes. Interest expense. Interest expense increased $31 million in 2011, compared to 2010, and reflects interest on the senior notes issued in the second quarter of 2010 and the third quarter of 2011. Income taxes. Income taxes increased $48 million or 7.9%, from $606 million in 2010 to $654 million in 2011. The change reflects the increase in income before income taxes of $135 million in 2011 or 8.3%, offset partially by a decrease in the effective tax rate from 37.1% to 37.0% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. The decrease was primarily driven by state tax law changes enacted during the second quarter of 2011 as well as the settlement of certain state and federal tax matters. Year ended December 31, 2010 Compared to the Year ended December 31, 2009 2010 2009 (In millions) Net sales (including excise taxes of $1,879 and $1,547) $ 5,932 $ 5,233 Cost of sales 3,809 3,327 Gross profit 2,123 1,906 Selling, general and administrative 398 365 Operating income 1,725 1,541 Investment income 4 5 Interest expense (94 ) (27 ) Income before income taxes 1,635 1,519 Income taxes 606 571 Net income $ 1,029 $ 948 Net sales. Net sales increased by $699 million, or 13.4%, from $5.233 billion in 2009 to $5.932 billion in 2010. Net sales increased $287 million due to the increase in federal excise taxes effective April 1, 2009, $287 million due to higher unit sales volume and $80 million due to higher average unit prices reflecting price increases in February and March 2009 and February, May and November 2010 and $45 million of lower sales incentives in 2010. Federal excise taxes are included in net sales and increased $30.83 per thousand units, or $0.62 per pack of 20 units, to $50.33 per thousand cigarettes, or $1.01 per pack of 20 cigarettes, effective April 1, 2009. Total Lorillard wholesale unit volume, which includes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, increased 5.0% during 2010 compared to 2009. Domestic unit volume, which excludes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, increased 5.3% in 2010 compared to 2009. Unit volume figures in this section are provided on a gross basis. Total unit volume for Newport, the Companys flagship brand, increased 2.3% in 2010 and domestic Newport unit volume increased 2.5% in 2010 compared to 2009. Domestic wholesale shipments for Maverick, the Companys leading discount brand, increased 31.5% in 2010 compared to 2009. Excluding the launch of Newport Non Menthol in the fourth quarter of 2010, Newports domestic wholesale unit shipments increased 1.2% during 2010. Industry wide domestic unit volume decreased an estimated 3.8% during 2010 compared to 2009. 34 Table of Contents Based on our proprietary retail shipment data (Excel), which measures shipments from wholesale to retail and is unaffected by changes in wholesale inventory patterns, Lorillards domestic retail market share increased 1.1 share points in 2010 to 12.9%. Newports domestic retail market share reached 10.9% during 2010, an increase of 0.6 share points compared to 2009. The Companys successful launch of Newport Non Menthol, geographic expansion initiatives on Newport Menthol and continued retail shipment growth on Maverick accounted for the increase in volume and market share growth. Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by $482 million, or 14.5%, from $3.327 billion in 2009 to $3.809 billion in 2010. The increase in cost of sales is primarily due to the increase in federal excise taxes ($287 million), higher unit sales volume ($67 million), higher raw material costs, primarily tobacco and wrapping materials ($7 million), higher expenses related to the State Settlement Agreements ($84 million), higher Food and Drug Administration fees ($26 million) and the Federal Assessment for Tobacco Growers ($11 million). We recorded pre tax charges for our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements of $1.212 billion and $1.128 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, an increase of $84 million. The $84 million increase is due to the impact of higher unit sales ($54), the impact of the inflation adjustment ($32 million), partially offset by other adjustments ($2 million). Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $33 million, or 9.0%, from $365 million in 2009 to $398 million in 2010 as a result of higher legal and compensation costs incurred in the current year. Interest expense. Interest expense increased $67 million in 2010, compared to 2009, and reflects interest on the senior notes issued in the second quarter of 2009, net of the effect of interest rate swap agreements, and interest on the senior notes issued in the second quarter of 2010. Income taxes. Income taxes increased $35 million or 6.1%, from $571 million in 2009 to $606 million in 2010. The change reflects the increase in income before income taxes of $116 million in 2010 or 7.6%, offset partially by a decrease in the effective tax rate from 37.6% to 37.1% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. The decrease was driven by a statutory increase in the manufacturers deduction, offset partially by the unfavorable impact of the repeal of future tax deductions for Medicare Part D subsidies for retiree drug benefits pursuant to the health care reform legislation enacted during the first quarter of 2010. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our cash and cash equivalents of $1.634 billion at December 31, 2011 were invested in prime money market funds. Cash Flows Cash flow from operating activities. The principal source of liquidity for our business and operating needs is internally generated funds from our operations. We generated net cash flow from operations of $1.183 billion for 2011 compared to $1.091 billion for 2010. The increased cash flow in 2011 primarily reflects the increase in net income. Net cash flow from operations was $1.091 billion for 2010, compared to $1.037 billion for 2009. The increased cash flow in 2010 primarily reflects the increase in net income. Cash flow from investing activities. Our cash flow from investing activities used cash of $56 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 compared to $40 million for 2010. The increase in cash flow used by investing activities in 2011 is due to increased purchases of equipment. Our cash flow from investing activities used cash of $40 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 compared to $51 million for 2009. The decrease in cash flow used by investing activities in 2010 is due to decreased purchases of equipment. Capital expenditures were $56 million, $40 million and $51 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The expenditures were primarily for the modernization of manufacturing equipment. Our capital expenditures for 2012 are forecast to be between $65 million and $75 million. Cash flow from financing activities. Our cash flow from operations has exceeded our working capital and capital expenditure requirements in each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. In 2009, we paid cash dividends of $155 million, $155 million, $163 million and $158 million on March 12, 2009, June 12, 2009, 35 Table of Contents September 11, 2009 and December 11, 2009, respectively. In 2010, we paid cash dividends of $155 million, $152 million, $171 million and $167 million on March 11, 2010, June 11, 2010, September 10, 2010 and December 13, 2010, respectively. In 2011, we paid cash dividends of $188 million, $185 million, $177 million and $173 million on March 11, 2011, June 10, 2011, September 12, 2011 and December 12, 2011, respectively. In June 2009, Lorillard Tobacco issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 8.125% unsecured senior notes due June 23, 2019 (the 2019 Notes) pursuant to an Indenture, dated June 23, 2009 (the Indenture), and First Supplemental Indenture, dated June 23, 2009 (the First Supplemental Indenture). In September 2009, Lorillard Tobacco entered into interest rate swap agreements, which the Company guaranteed, with a total notional amount of $750 million to modify its exposure to interest rate risk by effectively converting the interest rate payable on the 2019 Notes from a fixed rate to a floating rate. Under the agreements, Lorillard Tobacco receives interest based on a fixed rate of 8.125% and pays interest based on a floating one month LIBOR rate plus a spread of 4.625%. The variable rates were 4.896% and 4.886% as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The agreements expire in June 2019. The interest rate swap agreements qualify for hedge accounting and were designated as fair value hedges. Under the swap agreements, Lorillard Tobacco receives a fixed rate settlement and pays a variable rate settlement with the difference recorded in interest expense. That difference reduced interest expense by $24 and $24 and for the years ended 2011 and 2010, respectively. In April 2010, Lorillard Tobacco issued $1 billion of unsecured senior notes in two tranches pursuant to Indenture, and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated April 12, 2010 (the Second Supplemental Indenture). The first tranche was $750 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Notes due May 1, 2020 (the 2020 Notes), and the second tranche was $250 million aggregate principal amount of 8.125% Notes due May 1, 2040 (the 2040 Notes). In August 2011, Lorillard Tobacco issued $750 million of unsecured senior notes in two tranches pursuant to the Indenture and the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated August 4, 2011 (the Third Supplemental Indenture). The first tranche was $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.500% Notes due August 4, 2016 (the 2016 Notes) and the second tranche was $250 million aggregate principal amount of 7.000% Notes due August 4, 2041 (the 2041 Notes). Lorillard Tobacco is the principal, wholly owned operating subsidiary of the Company and the 2016 Notes, 2019 Notes, 2020 Notes, 2040 Notes and 2041 Notes (collectively, the Notes) are unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company. The net proceeds from the issuance will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, the repurchase, redemption or retirement of securities including the Companys common stock, acquisitions, additions to working capital and capital expenditures. The interest rate payable on the 2019 Notes is subject to incremental increases from 0.25% to 2.00% in the event either Moodys Investors Services, Inc. (Moodys), Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) or both Moodys and S&P downgrade the 2019 Notes below investment grade (Baa3 and BBB for Moodys and S&P, respectively). As of December 31, 2011, our debt ratings were Baa2 and BBB with Moodys and S&P, respectively, both of which are investment grade. Upon the occurrence of a change of control triggering event, Lorillard Tobacco will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest. A change of control triggering event occurs when there is both a change of control (as defined in the Second Supplemental Indenture) and the Notes cease to be rated investment grade by both Moodys and S&P within 60 days of the occurrence of a change of control or public announcement of the intention to effect a change of control. The Notes are not entitled to any sinking fund and are not redeemable prior to maturity. The Notes contain covenants that restrict liens and sale and leaseback transactions, subject to a limited exception. During 2011, we repurchased approximately 15.6 million shares at a cost of $101.94 per share and totaling $1.586 billion under the $1.4 billion repurchase program announced in August 2010 and amended in May 2011, and the $750 million repurchase program announced in August 2011. As of February 15, 2012, the maximum dollar value of shares that could yet be purchased under the $750 million program was $27 million. Purchases by the Company under these programs were made from time to time at prevailing market prices in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, block purchase techniques or otherwise, as determined by the Companys management. The purchases were funded from existing cash balances, including proceeds from the issuance of the Notes. These programs do not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of its 36 Table of Contents common stock. The timing, frequency and amount of repurchase activity will depend on a variety of factors such as levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements for investment in the Companys business, current stock price, market conditions and other factors. Liquidity We believe that cash flow from operating activities will be sufficient for the foreseeable future to enable us to meet our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements and to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. We cannot predict our cash requirements related to any future settlements or judgments, including cash required to bond any appeals, if necessary, and can make no assurance that we will be able to meet all of those requirements. The rate of return on our pension assets in 2011 was a positive 4.9%. Our pension expense was approximately $15 million in 2011 and we anticipate pension expense of approximately $24 million in 2012. We contributed $28 million to our pension plans in 2011 and anticipate a contribution of $31 million in 2012. We believe that it is appropriate for a company of our size and financial characteristics to have a prudent level of debt as a component of our capital structure in order to reduce our total cost of capital and improve total shareholder returns. Accordingly, we raised $750 million, $1 billion and $750 million of debt financing in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and we expect that we will seek to raise additional debt financing in the future, although the structure, timing and amount of such indebtedness has not yet been determined and will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to the prevailing credit and interest rate environment, our cash requirements, and other business, financial and tax considerations. The proceeds of any such debt financing may be used to fund stock repurchases, acquisitions, dividends or for other general corporate purposes. We presently have no commitments or agreements with or from any third party regarding any debt financing transactions and no assurance can be given that we will ultimately pursue any debt financing or, if pursued, that we will be able to obtain debt financing at the suggested levels or on attractive terms. In March 2010, Lorillard Tobacco, the principal, wholly owned operating subsidiary of the Company, entered into a $185 million revolving credit facility (Revolver) that expires March 26, 2013 and is guaranteed by the Company. Proceeds from the Revolver may be used for general corporate and working capital purposes. The interest rates on borrowings under the Revolver will be based on prevailing interest rates and, in part, upon the credit rating applicable to the Companys senior unsecured long term debt. The Revolver requires that the Company maintain a ratio of debt to net income plus income taxes, interest expense, depreciation and amortization expense, any extraordinary losses, any non cash expenses or losses and any losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business (EBITDA) of not more than 2.25 to 1 and a ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of not less than 3.0 to 1. In addition, the Revolver contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including restrictions on liens and sale and leaseback transactions subject to a limited exception. The Revolver contains customary events of default, including upon a change in control that could result in the acceleration of all amounts and cancellation of all commitments outstanding, if any, under the Revolver. There were no borrowings under the Revolver during 2010 or 2011. State Settlement Agreements The State Settlement Agreements require us and the other Original Participating Manufacturers (Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco)) to make aggregate annual payments of $10.4 billion in perpetuity, subject to adjustment for several factors described below. In addition, the Original Participating Manufacturers are required to pay plaintiffs attorneys fees, subject to an aggregate annual cap of $500 million. These payment obligations are several and not joint obligations of each of the Original Participating Manufacturers. Our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements will materially adversely affect our cash flows and operating income in future years. 37 Table of Contents Both the aggregate payment obligations of the Original Participating Manufacturers, and our payment obligations, individually, under the State Settlement Agreements are subject to adjustment for several factors which include: inflation; aggregate volume of Original Participating Manufacturers cigarette shipments; other Original Participating Manufacturers and our market share; and aggregate Original Participating Manufacturers operating income, allocated to such manufacturers that have operating income increases. The inflation adjustment increases payments on a compounded annual basis by the greater of 3.0% or the actual total percentage change in the consumer price index for the preceding year. The inflation adjustment is measured starting with inflation for 1999. The volume adjustment increases or decreases payments based on the increase or decrease in the total number of cigarettes shipped in or to the 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico by the Original Participating Manufacturers during the preceding year compared to the 1997 base year shipments. If volume has increased, the volume adjustment would increase the annual payment by the same percentage as the number of cigarettes shipped exceeds the 1997 base number. If volume has decreased, the volume adjustment would decrease the annual payment by 98.0% of the percentage reduction in volume. In addition, downward adjustments to the annual payments for changes in volume may, subject to specified conditions and exceptions, be reduced in the event of an increase in the Original Participating Manufacturers aggregate operating income from domestic sales of cigarettes over base year levels established in the State Settlement Agreements, adjusted for inflation. Any adjustments resulting from increases in operating income would be allocated among those Original Participating Manufacturers who have had increases. During 2011, we paid $1.219 billion under the State Settlement Agreements, primarily based on 2010 volume. Included in the above number was $107 million we deposited in an interest bearing escrow account in accordance with procedures established in the MSA pending resolution of a claim by us and the other Original Participating Manufacturers that they are entitled to reduce their MSA payments based on a loss of market share to non participating manufacturers. Most of the states that are parties to the MSA are disputing the availability of the reduction and we believe that this dispute will ultimately be resolved by judicial and arbitration proceedings. Our $107 million reduction is based upon the Original Participating Manufacturers collective loss of market share in 2008. In April of 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we had previously deposited $88 million, $74 million, $72 million, $111 million and $109 million, respectively, in the same escrow account discussed above, which was based on a loss of market share in 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 to non participating manufacturers. In February 2009, we directed the transfer of $72 million from this account to the non disputed account, related to the loss of market share in 2005, pursuant to an Agreement Concerning Arbitration that we and other Participating Manufacturers entered into with certain MSA states. This amount was then paid to the MSA states. We and other Original Participating Manufacturers have the right to claim additional reductions of MSA payments in subsequent years under provisions of the MSA. Contractual Cash Payment Obligations The following table presents the contractual cash payment obligations of Lorillard as of December 31, 2011: Total Lessthan1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years Morethan 5years (In millions) Senior notes $ 2,500 $ $ $ 500 $ 2,000 Interest payments related to notes 2,055 167 504 311 1,073 Contractual purchase obligations 78 78 Operating lease obligations 3 2 1 Total $ 4,636 $ 247 $ 505 $ 811 $ 3,073 As of December 31, 2011, we do not believe that we will make any payments in the next twelve months related to gross unrecognized tax benefits. We cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits that may result in cash settlements for periods beyond twelve months. 38 Table of Contents As previously discussed, we have entered into the State Settlement Agreements which impose a stream of future payment obligations on us and the other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers. Our portion of ongoing adjusted settlement payments, including fees to settling plaintiffs attorneys, are based on a number of factors which are described above. Our cash payment under the State Settlement Agreements in 2011 amounted to $1.219 billion and we estimate our cash payments in 2012 under the State Settlement Agreements will be between $1.350 billion and $1.400 billion, primarily based on 2011 estimated industry volume. Payment obligations are not incurred until the related sales occur and therefore are not reflected in the above table. Please see the discussion of the calculation of the Original Participating Manufacturers base payment obligations under the State Settlement Agreements under State Settlement Agreements on page 37. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements None. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We invest in financial instruments that involve market risk. Our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. Market risk exposure is presented below for each class of financial instrument we held at December 31, 2011, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. We believe that the rate of adverse market movement represents a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. The estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. In addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. The market risk exposure represents the potential loss in carrying value and pretax impact to future earnings caused by the hypothetical change in price. Exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. Senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has the responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. Interest rate risk. Our investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents, consist of money market funds with financial institutions. Those investments are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. A sensitivity analysis, based on a hypothetical 1% increase or decrease in interest rates on our average 2011 investments, would cause an increase or decrease in pre tax income of approximately $16 million. Our debt is denominated in US Dollars and has been issued at a fixed rate. In September 2009, we entered into interest rate swap agreements for a total notional amount of $750 million to hedge changes in fair value of the Notes due to changes in the designated benchmark interest rate. Changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in earnings along with offsetting adjustments to the carrying amount of the hedged debt. A sensitivity analysis, based on a hypothetical 1% change in LIBOR, would cause an increase or decrease in pretax income of approximately $8 million for 2011. Liquidity risk. We may be forced to cash settle all or a portion of our derivative contracts before the expiration date if our debt rating is downgraded below Ba2 by Moodys or BB by S&P. This could have a negative impact on our cash position. Early cash settlement would result in the timing of our hedge settlement not being matched to the cash settlement of the debt. Our current Moodys debt rating is Baa2, and our current S&P debt rating is BBB , both of which are above the ratings at which settlement of our derivative contracts would be required. See Note 11 for additional information on derivatives. 39 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing herein. Years Ended December 31, (In millions, except per share data) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Results of Operations: Net sales (1) $ 6,466 $ 5,932 $ 5,233 $ 4,204 $ 3,969 Cost of sales (1) 4,123 3,809 3,327 2,434 2,313 Gross profit 2,343 2,123 1,906 1,770 1,656 Selling, general and administrative (2) 451 398 365 355 382 Operating income (3) 1,892 1,725 1,541 1,415 1,274 Investment income (4) 3 4 5 20 109 Interest expense (125 ) (94 ) (27 ) (1 ) Income before income taxes 1,770 1,635 1,519 1,434 1,383 Income taxes 654 606 571 547 485 Net income $ 1,116 $ 1,029 $ 948 $ 887 $ 898 Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding 139.35 151.79 164.62 172.21 173.92 Diluted earnings per share $ 7.99 $ 6.78 $ 5.76 $ 5.15 $ 5.16 Dividends per share $ 5.20 $ 4.25 $ 3.84 $ 4.67 $ 6.72 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 15.2 18.4 57.3 N/M N/M (1) Includes excise taxes of $2,014, $1,879, $1,547, $712 and $688 million, respectively. (2) 2008 included expenses of $18 million related to the Separation of Lorillard from Loews and 2007 included a $66 million charge related to litigation. (3) 2011 includes a favorable impact on tobacco settlement expense of $25 million resulting from a competitors adoption of mark to market pension accounting in the fourth quarter of 2011. Tobacco settlement expenses are impacted by a number of factors including industry profits, which were significantly reduced in the fourth quarter by the competitors accounting change. See further discussion under Results of Operations in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. (4) Includes interest income of $3, $4, $5, $21 and $75 million and income (loss) from limited partnership investments of $0, $0, $0, ($1) and $34 million, respectively. December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Financial Position: Current assets $ 2,564 $ 2,935 $ 2,181 $ 1,962 $2,103 Total assets 3,008 3,296 2,575 2,321 2,600 Current liabilities 1,485 1,426 1,337 1,273 1,188 Long term debt 2,595 1,769 722 Total liabilities 4,521 3,521 2,488 1,690 1,587 Shareholders equity (deficit) (1,513 ) (225 ) 87 631 1,013 25 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements, the notes related to those financial statements and Item 6. Selected Financial Data appearing herein. In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward looking statements based on current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results and the timing of certain events may differ significantly from those projected in such forward looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth in the Forward Looking Statements, Item 1A. Risk Factors, Business Environment and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The financial statements include our subsidiaries after the elimination of intercompany accounts and transactions. The consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, applied on a consistent basis. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. Significant estimates in the consolidated financial statements and related notes include: (1) accruals for tobacco settlement costs, legal expenses and litigation costs, sales incentive programs, income taxes and share based compensation, (2) the determination of discount and other rate assumptions for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit expenses and (3) the valuation of pension assets. In general, our estimates are based on historical experience, evaluation of current trends, information from third party professionals and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the known facts and circumstances at the time. We consider the accounting policies discussed below to be critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements as their application places the most significant demands on managements judgment. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved with this type of judgment, actual results could differ significantly from estimates and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and equity. Revenue Recognition Revenue from product sales, net of sales incentives, is recognized at the time ownership of the goods transfers to customers and collectability is reasonably assured. Federal excise taxes are recognized on a gross basis and are included in both sales and cost of sales. Sales incentives include retail price discounts, coupons and retail display allowances and are recorded as a reduction of revenue based on amounts estimated as due to customers and consumers at the end of a period based primarily on use and redemption rates. Tobacco Settlement Costs In 1998, Lorillard Tobacco, Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco) (the Original Participating Manufacturers) entered into the MSA with 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. We and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (which are referred to as the Initial State Settlements, and together with the MSA, are referred to as the State Settlement Agreements). Our portion of ongoing adjusted settlement payments and legal fees is based on our relative share of the settling manufacturers domestic cigarette shipments, with respect to the MSA, in the year preceding that in which the payment is due, and, with respect to the Initial State Settlements, in the year in which payment is due. We record our portion of ongoing adjusted settlement payments as part of cost of sales as product is shipped. Please read State Settlement Agreements beginning on page 37 for additional information. 26 Table of Contents Tobacco and Other Litigation We and other cigarette manufacturers continue to be confronted with substantial litigation. Plaintiffs in most of the cases seek unspecified amounts of compensatory damages and punitive damages, although some seek damages ranging into the billions of dollars. Plaintiffs in some of the cases seek treble damages, statutory damages, return of profits, equitable and injunctive relief, and medical monitoring, among other damages. We believe that we have valid defenses to the cases pending against us. We also believe we have valid bases for appeal of the adverse verdicts against us. While we intend to defend vigorously all tobacco products liability litigation, it is not possible to predict the outcome of any of this litigation. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these actions could be decided unfavorably. We may enter into discussions in an attempt to settle particular cases if we believe it is appropriate to do so. We establish accruals in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 450, Contingencies (ASC 450), when a material litigation liability is both probable and can be reasonably estimated. There are a number of factors impacting our ability to estimate the possible loss or a range of loss, including the specific facts of each matter; the legal theories proffered by plaintiffs and legal defenses available to us; the wide ranging outcomes reached in similar cases; differing procedural and substantive laws in the various jurisdictions in which lawsuits have been filed, including whether punitive damages may be pursued or are permissible; the degree of specificity in a plaintiffs complaint; the history of the case and whether discovery has been completed; plaintiffs history of use of our cigarettes relative to those of the other defendants; the attribution of damages, if any, among multiple defendants; the application of contributory and or comparative negligence to the allocation of damage awards among plaintiffs and defendants; the likelihood of settlements for de minimus amounts prior to trial; the likelihood of success at trial; the likelihood of success on appeal; and the impact of current and pending state and federal appellate decisions. It has been our experience and is our continued expectation that the above complexities and uncertainties will not be clarified until the late stages of litigation. For those reasonably possible loss contingencies for which an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss cannot be made, we disclose the nature of the litigation and any developments as appropriate. We monitor the status of all outstanding litigation on an ongoing basis in order to determine the probability of loss and assess whether an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss can be determined. In evaluating litigation, we consider, among other things, the nature of the claims; the jurisdiction in which the claims have been filed and the law and case law developed in that jurisdiction; the experience of plaintiffs counsel in this type of litigation; the parties respective litigation strategies; the stage of the proceedings; the outcome of the matters at trial or on appeal; the type and amount of damages claimed by plaintiffs; the outcomes and damage awards, if any, for similar matters brought against us and or the tobacco industry; and the possibility and likelihood of success on appeal. Our assessment of a possible loss or range of loss is based on our assessment of the final outcome of the litigation upon the conclusion of all appeals. We record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Except for the impact of the State Settlement Agreements as described above, while it is reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, (i) we have concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any material pending litigation against us, (ii) we are unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any material pending litigation due to the many variables, uncertainties and complexities described above, and (iii) accordingly, we have not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for possible losses related to material pending litigation. It is possible that our results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period or its financial position could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending or future litigation or an inability to secure bonds where required to stay the execution of judgments on appeal. Defense costs associated with product liability claims are a significant component of our selling, general and administrative expenses and are accrued as incurred. Defense costs may increase in future periods, in part, as a result of the Engle Progeny Cases as described in Note 19, Legal Proceedings, to our consolidated financial statements beginning on page 73. Numerous factors affect product liability defense costs in any given period. The principal factors are as follows: the number and types of cases filed and appealed; 27 Table of Contents the number of cases tried and appealed; the development of the law; the application of new or different theories of liability by plaintiffs and their counsel; and litigation strategy and tactics. Please read Note 19 Legal Proceedings, to our consolidated financial statements beginning on page 73 for detailed information regarding tobacco litigation affecting us. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations We are required to make a significant number of assumptions in order to estimate the liabilities and costs related to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to employees under our benefit plans. The assumptions that have the most impact on pension costs are the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets and the expected rate of compensation increases. These assumptions are evaluated relative to current market factors such as inflation, interest rates and fiscal and monetary policies. Changes in these assumptions can have a material impact on pension obligations and pension expense. In determining the discount rate assumption, we utilized current market information and liability information, including a discounted cash flow analysis of our pension and postretirement obligations. In particular, the basis for our discount rate selection was the yield on indices of highly rated fixed income debt securities with durations comparable to that of our plan liabilities. The discount rate was determined by projecting the plans expected future benefit payments as defined for the projected benefit obligation, discounting those expected payments using a theoretical zero coupon spot yield curve derived from a universe of high quality bonds as of the measurement date, and solving for the single equivalent discount rate that resulted in the same projected benefit obligation. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience and future and near term outlook. Long term return on plan assets is determined based on historical portfolio results, asset allocations and managements expectation of the future economic environment. Our major assumptions are set forth in Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 56. For 2011, hypothetical changes in the assumptions we used for the pension plans would have had the following impact on our pension expense: A decrease of 25 basis points in the long term rate of return would have increased our pension expense by approximately $2.4 million; A decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate would have increased our pension expense by approximately $2.6 million; and An increase of 25 basis points in the future salary growth rate would have increased our net pension expense by approximately $0.8 million. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with Accounting Standard Codification Topic 740 Income Taxes. Under ASC 740, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions. The uncertain tax provisions of ASC 740 prescribe a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Additionally, ASC 740 provides guidance on the measurement, derecognition, classification and disclosure of tax positions, along with accounting for the related interest and penalties. 28 Table of Contents Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost, determined on a last in, first out (LIFO) basis, or market. The inventory of leaf tobacco is classified as a current asset in accordance with generally recognized trade practice although, due to the duration of the aging processes, a significant portion of the tobacco on hand will not be sold or used within one year. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please read Recently adopted accounting pronouncements in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 46. Business Environment Participants in the U.S. tobacco industry, including us, face a number of issues that have adversely affected their results of operations and financial condition in the past and will continue to do so, including: A substantial volume of litigation seeking compensatory and punitive damages ranging into the billions of dollars, as well as equitable and injunctive relief, arising out of allegations of cancer and other health effects resulting from the use of cigarettes, addiction to smoking or exposure to environmental tobacco smoke, including claims for economic damages relating to alleged misrepresentation concerning the use of descriptors such as lights, as well as other alleged damages. Substantial annual payments continuing in perpetuity, and significant restrictions on marketing and advertising have been agreed to and are required under the terms of certain settlement agreements, including the Master Settlement Agreement among major tobacco manufacturers and 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions (the MSA) that we entered into in 1998 along with Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco) (the other Original Participating Manufacturers) to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. We and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (the Initial State Settlements, and together with the MSA, the State Settlement Agreements). The State Settlement Agreements impose a stream of future payment obligations on us and on the other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers as product is sold and place significant restrictions on our and their ability to market and sell cigarettes. The domestic cigarette market, in which we conduct our only significant business, continues to contract. As a result of price increases, restrictions on advertising, promotions and smoking in public and private facilities, increases in regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, increased pressure from anti tobacco groups and other factors, domestic cigarette shipments have decreased at a compound rate of approximately 3.6% from 2001 through 2011. Increases in cigarette prices since 1998 have led to an increase in the volume of discount and, specifically, deep discount cigarettes. Cigarette price increases have been driven by increases in federal, state and local excise taxes and by manufacturer price increases. Price increases have led, and continue to lead, to high levels of discounting and other promotional activities for premium brands. Deep discount brands have grown from an estimated domestic shipment share in 1998 of less than 2.0% to an estimated share of 13.9% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, and continue to be a significant competitive factor in the domestic cigarette market. We do not have sufficient empirical data to determine whether the increased price of cigarettes has deterred consumers from starting to smoke or encouraged them to quit smoking, but it is likely that increased prices may have had an adverse effect on consumption and may continue to do so. The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasing regulation. In June 2009, the U.S. Congress passed, and the President signed into law, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the FSPTCA) granting the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products. Pursuant to the terms of the FSPTCA, the FDA established the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee (the TPSAC) to evaluate, among other things, the impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health. In March 2011, the TPSAC issued its report to the FDA stating that removal of menthol cigarettes from the marketplace would benefit public health. On July 21, 2011, TPSAC considered revisions 29 Table of Contents to its report, and the voting members unanimously approved the final report for submission to the FDA with no change in its recommendation. The FDA could promulgate regulations that, among other things, could result in a ban on or restrict the use of menthol in cigarettes. The law imposes and will impose new restrictions on the manner in which cigarettes can be advertised and marketed, requires larger and more severe health warnings on cigarette packaging, permits restriction of the level of tar and nicotine contained in or yielded by cigarettes and may alter the way cigarette products are developed and manufactured. On June 27, 2011, the FDA provided a progress report on its review of the science related to menthol cigarettes. In its Menthol Update, the FDA stated that [e]xperts within the FDA Center for Tobacco Products are conducting an independent review of the science related to the impact [of menthol] in cigarettes on public health The FDA also stated that it will submit its draft independent review of menthol science to an external peer review panel in July 2011, and that following the peer review period (originally announced as three and one half months), the FDA will make available the results of the peer review and its preliminary scientific assessment for public comment. On January 26, 2012, the FDA stated that its report had been submitted to the peer review panel and comments had been received from the panel on the report. The FDA also indicated that its final report, including the peer review comments, will be released for public comment at a future date. In August 2009, we, along with RJR Tobacco, other tobacco manufacturers and a tobacco retailer, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky against the FDA challenging the constitutionality of certain restrictions on speech included in the FSPTCA. These restrictions on speech include, among others, bans on the use of color and graphics in certain tobacco product advertising, limits on the right to make truthful statements regarding modified risk tobacco products, a prohibition on making certain statements about the FDAs regulation of tobacco products, restrictions on the placement of outdoor advertising, a ban on certain promotions offering gifts in consideration for the purchase of tobacco products, a ban on brand name sponsorship of events and the sale of brand name merchandise, and a ban on the distribution of product samples. The suit also challenges the laws requirement for extensive graphic warning labels on all packaging and advertising. The complaint seeks a judgment (i) declaring that such provisions of the law violate the First and or Fifth Amendments of the U.S. Constitution and (ii) enjoining the FDA from enforcing the unconstitutional provisions of the law. On January 4, 2010, the district court issued an order (a) striking down the provisions of the law that banned the use of color and graphics in certain tobacco product advertising and prohibited tobacco manufacturers from making certain statements about the FDAs regulation of tobacco products and (b) upholding the remaining challenged advertising provisions. Both sides have appealed the district courts ruling to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, and the appeal has been fully briefed and argued. While we believe there is established legal precedent supporting our claims we cannot predict the outcome of any such appeal. Nor can we make any assurances that any such appeal will be successful. In February 2011, we, along with RJR Tobacco, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the FDA challenging the composition of the TPSAC because of the FDAs appointment of certain voting members with significant financial conflicts of interest. We believe these members are financially biased because they regularly testify as expert witnesses against tobacco product manufacturers, and because they are paid consultants for pharmaceutical companies that develop and market smoking cessation products. The suit similarly challenges the presence of certain conflicted individuals on the Constituents Subcommittee of the TPSAC. The complaint seeks a judgment (i) declaring that, among other things, the appointment of the conflicted individuals to the TPSAC (and its Constituents Subcommittee) was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, and otherwise not in compliance with the law because it prevented the TPSAC from preparing a report that was unbiased and untainted by conflicts of interest, and (ii) enjoining the FDA from, among other things, relying on the TPSACs report. The FDA has filed a motion to dismiss this action, the parties have briefed the issue and a hearing was scheduled for February 14, 2012. In August 2011, we, along with RJR Tobacco and several other tobacco manufacturers, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the FDA challenging the constitutionality of certain regulations requiring specific graphic warning labels on all packaging and advertising. The Complaint seeks a judgment (i) declaring that the regulations violate the First Amendment; (ii) declaring that the regulations violate various provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act; (iii) declaring that the textual and graphic warnings required under the 30 Table of Contents FSPTCA shall become effective 15 months after the FDA issues regulations that are permissible under the U.S. Constitution and federal law; and (iv) preliminarily and permanently enjoining enforcement of the regulations. Plaintiffs have moved for a preliminary injunction, and after full briefing and oral argument, the district court granted plaintiffs motion. The FDA has appealed that decision to the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. Briefing is ongoing, and oral argument is scheduled for April 2012. Plaintiffs also moved in the district court for summary judgment in their favor. The FDA has opposed Plaintiffs motion and has cross moved for summary judgment in its favor. The district court granted a motion to expedite consideration of the cross summary judgment motions. Oral argument on those motions was held on February 1, 2012 before the district court. As of February 9, 2012, the court has not ruled on the motions. The federal government and many state and local governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, have adopted legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit, restrict or discourage smoking, including legislation, regulations or policies prohibiting or restricting smoking in public buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars, on airline flights and in the workplace. Other similar laws and regulations are under consideration and may be enacted by federal, state and local governments in the future. Substantial federal, state and local excise taxes are reflected in the retail price of cigarettes. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, the federal excise tax was $1.0066 per pack and combined state and local excise taxes ranged from $0.17 to $5.85 per pack. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, excise tax increases ranging from $0.20 to $0.40 per pack were implemented in three states and the District of Columbia and one state excise tax decrease of $0.10 in New Hampshire. On June 21, 2010, New York state legislature approved a $1.60 per pack state excise tax increase that was implemented on July 1, 2010. The federal excise tax on cigarettes increased by $0.6166 per pack to $1.0066 per pack, effective April 1, 2009, to finance health insurance for children. It is likely that increases in excise and similar taxes have had an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes and that the most recent increase and future increases, the extent of which cannot be predicted, could result in further volume declines for the cigarette industry, including us, and an increased sales shift toward deep discount cigarettes rather than premium brands. In addition, we and other cigarette manufacturers and importers are required to pay an assessment under a federal law designed to fund payments to tobacco quota holders and growers and are required to pay an annual user fee to the FDA. The domestic market for cigarettes is highly competitive. Competition is primarily based on a brands taste; quality; price, including the level of discounting and other promotional activities; positioning; consumer loyalty; and retail display. Our principal competitors are the two other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, Philip Morris USA and RJR Tobacco. We also compete with numerous other smaller manufacturers and importers of cigarettes, including deep discount cigarette manufacturers. We believe our ability to compete even more effectively has been restrained in some marketing areas as a result of retail merchandising contracts offered by Philip Morris USA and RJR Tobacco which limit the retail shelf space available to our brands. As a result, in some retail locations we are limited in competitively supporting our promotional programs, which may constrain sales. 31 Table of Contents The following table presents selected Lorillard and industry shipment data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: Selected Industry Data (3) Year Ended December 31, (Volume in billions) 2011 2010 2009 Lorillard total domestic unit volume (1) 40.034 37.433 35.560 Industry total domestic unit volume (1) 293.098 303.679 315.735 Lorillards premium volume as a percentage of its total volume (2) 85.6% 86.6% 89.2% Newports share of Lorillards total volume (2) 84.5% 85.2% 87.5% Newports share of Lorillards net sales (2) 88.4% 88.8% 90.0% (1) Source: Management Science Associates, Inc. (MSAI), an independent third party database management organization that collects wholesale shipment data from various cigarette manufacturers. MSAI divides the cigarette market into two price segments, the premium price segment and the discount or reduced price segment. MSAIs information relating to unit sales volume and market share of certain of the smaller, primarily deep discount, cigarette manufacturers is based on estimates derived by MSAI. Management believes that volume and market share information for deep discount manufacturers may be understated. (2) Source: Lorillard shipment reports. (3) Domestic unit volume includes units sold as well as promotional units and excludes volumes for Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions. The following table presents selected Lorillard and industry retail market share data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, based on Lorillards proprietary retail shipment data, EXCEL, which reflects shipments from wholesalers to retailers. Selected Domestic Retail Market Share Data(1) Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Lorillards share of the retail market 14.1 % 12.9 % 11.8 % Lorillards share of the premium market 16.5 % 15.2 % 14.3 % Lorillards share of the menthol market (2) 39.1 % 38.4 % 36.9 % Newports share of the retail market 11.9 % 10.9 % 10.3 % Newports share of the premium market 16.3 % 15.0 % 14.0 % Newports share of the menthol market (2) 36.2 % 36.0 % 35.1 % Total menthol segment market share for the industry (2) 30.6 % 30.0 % 29.3 % Total discount segment market share for the industry 27.1 % 26.9 % 26.7 % (1) Source: Lorillards proprietary retail shipment data, EXCEL, which reflect shipments from wholesalers to retailers. (2) Lorillard has made certain adjustments to its proprietary retail shipment data to reflect managements judgment as to which brands are included in the menthol segment. Income Statement Captions Net sales includes revenue from product sales, net of sales incentives, and is recognized at the time that ownership of the goods transfers to customers and collectability is reasonably assured. Federal excise taxes are recognized on a gross basis, and are included in both net sales and cost of sales. Sales incentives include retail price discounts, coupons and retail display allowances, and are recorded as a reduction of revenue based on amounts estimated as due to customers and consumers at the end of a period based primarily on use and redemption rates. Cost of sales includes federal excise taxes, leaf tobacco cost, wrapping and casing material, manufacturing labor and production salaries, wages and overhead, depreciation related to manufacturing plant and equipment, research and development costs, distribution, other manufacturing costs, State Settlement Agreement expenses, the federal assessment for tobacco growers and promotional product expenses. Promotional product expenses include the cost, including all applicable excise taxes, of the free portion of buy some get some free promotions. 32 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses includes sales force expenses, legal and other costs of litigating and administering product liability claims, administrative expenses and advertising and marketing costs. Advertising and marketing costs include items such as direct mail, advertising, agency fees and point of sale materials. Investment income includes interest and dividend income, realized gains and losses on sale of investments and equity in the earnings of limited partnership investments. Interest expense includes interest expense related to debt and income taxes. Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2011 Compared to the Year ended December 31, 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Net sales (including excise taxes of $2,014 and $1,879) $ 6,466 $ 5,932 Cost of sales 4,123 3,809 Gross profit 2,343 2,123 Selling, general and administrative 451 398 Operating income 1,892 1,725 Investment income 3 4 Interest expense (125 ) (94 ) Income before income taxes 1,770 1,635 Income taxes 654 606 Net income $ 1,116 $ 1,029 Net sales. Net sales increased by $534 million, or 9.0%, from $5.932 billion in 2010 to $6.466 billion in 2011. Net sales increased $486 million due to higher unit sales volume (including $135 million of federal excise tax) and $150 million due to higher average unit prices reflecting price increases in February, May and November 2010 and July and December 2011. These increases were partially offset by $102 million of higher sales incentives in 2011. Federal excise taxes are included in net sales and increased $30.83 per thousand units, or $0.62 per pack of 20 units, to $50.33 per thousand cigarettes, or $1.01 per pack of 20 cigarettes, effective April 1, 2009. Total Lorillard wholesale unit volume, which includes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, increased 6.9% during 2011 compared 2010. Domestic unit volume, which excludes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, also increased 6.9% in 2011 compared to 2010. Unit volume figures in this section are provided on a gross basis. Total unit volume for Newport, the Companys flagship brand, increased 6.0% in 2011 and domestic Newport unit volume increased 6.1% in 2011 compared to 2010. Domestic wholesale shipments for Maverick, the Companys leading discount brand, increased 16.0% in 2011 compared 2010. Total cigarette industry domestic wholesale shipments decreased an estimated 3.5% in 2011 compared to 2010. Based on our proprietary retail shipment data (Excel), which measures shipments from wholesale to retail and is unaffected by changes in wholesale inventory patterns, Lorillards domestic retail market share increased 1.2 share points in 2011 to 14.1%. Newports domestic retail market share reached 11.9% during 2011, an increase of 1.0 share points compared to 2010. The Companys strategic initiatives including the successful launch of Newport Non Menthol, geographic expansion initiatives on Newport Menthol and continued retail shipment growth on Maverick accounted for the increase in volume and market share growth. Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by $314 million, or 8.2%, from $3.809 billion in 2010 to $4.123 billion in 2011. The increase in cost of sales is primarily due to higher unit sales volume ($166 million, including $135 million of federal excise tax), higher raw material costs, primarily tobacco and wrapping materials ($28 million), higher expenses related to the State Settlement Agreements ($95 million), higher Food and Drug Administration fees ($25 million) and the Federal Assessment for Tobacco Growers ($9 million). We recorded pre tax charges for our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements of $1.307 billion and $1.212 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, an increase of $95 million. The $95 million increase is due to the impact of higher unit sales ($93), the impact of the inflation adjustment ($36 million), partially offset by other adjustments ($34 million). Other adjustments include a favorable impact on tobacco settlement expense of $25 million resulting 33 Table of Contents from a competitors adoption of mark to market pension accounting in the fourth quarter of 2011. The reduction in our costs associated with the mark to market adjustment reported by Reynolds American amounted to approximately $3 million and was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011. In addition, industry operating profits reported in prior years were reduced as a result of the restatement arising from Reynolds Americans accounting change, which had the effect of further reducing the amounts due under the State Settlement Agreements by approximately $22 million. Tobacco settlement expenses are impacted by a number of factors including industry profits, which were significantly reduced in the fourth quarter by the competitors accounting change. Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $53 million, or 13.3%, from $398 million in 2010 to $451 million in 2011. The increase in 2011 is primarily a result of higher legal costs related to the Engle Progeny litigation. In addition, certain other selling, general and administrative costs increased due to higher compensation costs and higher administrative costs incurred in support of strategic initiatives, including market research and advertising costs related to the launch of Newport Non Menthol, as well as costs incurred in support of the Companys position and industry reports to the FDA regarding the use of Menthol in cigarettes. Interest expense. Interest expense increased $31 million in 2011, compared to 2010, and reflects interest on the senior notes issued in the second quarter of 2010 and the third quarter of 2011. Income taxes. Income taxes increased $48 million or 7.9%, from $606 million in 2010 to $654 million in 2011. The change reflects the increase in income before income taxes of $135 million in 2011 or 8.3%, offset partially by a decrease in the effective tax rate from 37.1% to 37.0% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. The decrease was primarily driven by state tax law changes enacted during the second quarter of 2011 as well as the settlement of certain state and federal tax matters. Year ended December 31, 2010 Compared to the Year ended December 31, 2009 2010 2009 (In millions) Net sales (including excise taxes of $1,879 and $1,547) $ 5,932 $ 5,233 Cost of sales 3,809 3,327 Gross profit 2,123 1,906 Selling, general and administrative 398 365 Operating income 1,725 1,541 Investment income 4 5 Interest expense (94 ) (27 ) Income before income taxes 1,635 1,519 Income taxes 606 571 Net income $ 1,029 $ 948 Net sales. Net sales increased by $699 million, or 13.4%, from $5.233 billion in 2009 to $5.932 billion in 2010. Net sales increased $287 million due to the increase in federal excise taxes effective April 1, 2009, $287 million due to higher unit sales volume and $80 million due to higher average unit prices reflecting price increases in February and March 2009 and February, May and November 2010 and $45 million of lower sales incentives in 2010. Federal excise taxes are included in net sales and increased $30.83 per thousand units, or $0.62 per pack of 20 units, to $50.33 per thousand cigarettes, or $1.01 per pack of 20 cigarettes, effective April 1, 2009. Total Lorillard wholesale unit volume, which includes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, increased 5.0% during 2010 compared to 2009. Domestic unit volume, which excludes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, increased 5.3% in 2010 compared to 2009. Unit volume figures in this section are provided on a gross basis. Total unit volume for Newport, the Companys flagship brand, increased 2.3% in 2010 and domestic Newport unit volume increased 2.5% in 2010 compared to 2009. Domestic wholesale shipments for Maverick, the Companys leading discount brand, increased 31.5% in 2010 compared to 2009. Excluding the launch of Newport Non Menthol in the fourth quarter of 2010, Newports domestic wholesale unit shipments increased 1.2% during 2010. Industry wide domestic unit volume decreased an estimated 3.8% during 2010 compared to 2009. 34 Table of Contents Based on our proprietary retail shipment data (Excel), which measures shipments from wholesale to retail and is unaffected by changes in wholesale inventory patterns, Lorillards domestic retail market share increased 1.1 share points in 2010 to 12.9%. Newports domestic retail market share reached 10.9% during 2010, an increase of 0.6 share points compared to 2009. The Companys successful launch of Newport Non Menthol, geographic expansion initiatives on Newport Menthol and continued retail shipment growth on Maverick accounted for the increase in volume and market share growth. Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by $482 million, or 14.5%, from $3.327 billion in 2009 to $3.809 billion in 2010. The increase in cost of sales is primarily due to the increase in federal excise taxes ($287 million), higher unit sales volume ($67 million), higher raw material costs, primarily tobacco and wrapping materials ($7 million), higher expenses related to the State Settlement Agreements ($84 million), higher Food and Drug Administration fees ($26 million) and the Federal Assessment for Tobacco Growers ($11 million). We recorded pre tax charges for our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements of $1.212 billion and $1.128 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, an increase of $84 million. The $84 million increase is due to the impact of higher unit sales ($54), the impact of the inflation adjustment ($32 million), partially offset by other adjustments ($2 million). Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $33 million, or 9.0%, from $365 million in 2009 to $398 million in 2010 as a result of higher legal and compensation costs incurred in the current year. Interest expense. Interest expense increased $67 million in 2010, compared to 2009, and reflects interest on the senior notes issued in the second quarter of 2009, net of the effect of interest rate swap agreements, and interest on the senior notes issued in the second quarter of 2010. Income taxes. Income taxes increased $35 million or 6.1%, from $571 million in 2009 to $606 million in 2010. The change reflects the increase in income before income taxes of $116 million in 2010 or 7.6%, offset partially by a decrease in the effective tax rate from 37.6% to 37.1% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. The decrease was driven by a statutory increase in the manufacturers deduction, offset partially by the unfavorable impact of the repeal of future tax deductions for Medicare Part D subsidies for retiree drug benefits pursuant to the health care reform legislation enacted during the first quarter of 2010. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our cash and cash equivalents of $1.634 billion at December 31, 2011 were invested in prime money market funds. Cash Flows Cash flow from operating activities. The principal source of liquidity for our business and operating needs is internally generated funds from our operations. We generated net cash flow from operations of $1.183 billion for 2011 compared to $1.091 billion for 2010. The increased cash flow in 2011 primarily reflects the increase in net income. Net cash flow from operations was $1.091 billion for 2010, compared to $1.037 billion for 2009. The increased cash flow in 2010 primarily reflects the increase in net income. Cash flow from investing activities. Our cash flow from investing activities used cash of $56 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 compared to $40 million for 2010. The increase in cash flow used by investing activities in 2011 is due to increased purchases of equipment. Our cash flow from investing activities used cash of $40 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 compared to $51 million for 2009. The decrease in cash flow used by investing activities in 2010 is due to decreased purchases of equipment. Capital expenditures were $56 million, $40 million and $51 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The expenditures were primarily for the modernization of manufacturing equipment. Our capital expenditures for 2012 are forecast to be between $65 million and $75 million. Cash flow from financing activities. Our cash flow from operations has exceeded our working capital and capital expenditure requirements in each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. In 2009, we paid cash dividends of $155 million, $155 million, $163 million and $158 million on March 12, 2009, June 12, 2009, 35 Table of Contents September 11, 2009 and December 11, 2009, respectively. In 2010, we paid cash dividends of $155 million, $152 million, $171 million and $167 million on March 11, 2010, June 11, 2010, September 10, 2010 and December 13, 2010, respectively. In 2011, we paid cash dividends of $188 million, $185 million, $177 million and $173 million on March 11, 2011, June 10, 2011, September 12, 2011 and December 12, 2011, respectively. In June 2009, Lorillard Tobacco issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 8.125% unsecured senior notes due June 23, 2019 (the 2019 Notes) pursuant to an Indenture, dated June 23, 2009 (the Indenture), and First Supplemental Indenture, dated June 23, 2009 (the First Supplemental Indenture). In September 2009, Lorillard Tobacco entered into interest rate swap agreements, which the Company guaranteed, with a total notional amount of $750 million to modify its exposure to interest rate risk by effectively converting the interest rate payable on the 2019 Notes from a fixed rate to a floating rate. Under the agreements, Lorillard Tobacco receives interest based on a fixed rate of 8.125% and pays interest based on a floating one month LIBOR rate plus a spread of 4.625%. The variable rates were 4.896% and 4.886% as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The agreements expire in June 2019. The interest rate swap agreements qualify for hedge accounting and were designated as fair value hedges. Under the swap agreements, Lorillard Tobacco receives a fixed rate settlement and pays a variable rate settlement with the difference recorded in interest expense. That difference reduced interest expense by $24 and $24 and for the years ended 2011 and 2010, respectively. In April 2010, Lorillard Tobacco issued $1 billion of unsecured senior notes in two tranches pursuant to Indenture, and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated April 12, 2010 (the Second Supplemental Indenture). The first tranche was $750 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Notes due May 1, 2020 (the 2020 Notes), and the second tranche was $250 million aggregate principal amount of 8.125% Notes due May 1, 2040 (the 2040 Notes). In August 2011, Lorillard Tobacco issued $750 million of unsecured senior notes in two tranches pursuant to the Indenture and the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated August 4, 2011 (the Third Supplemental Indenture). The first tranche was $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.500% Notes due August 4, 2016 (the 2016 Notes) and the second tranche was $250 million aggregate principal amount of 7.000% Notes due August 4, 2041 (the 2041 Notes). Lorillard Tobacco is the principal, wholly owned operating subsidiary of the Company and the 2016 Notes, 2019 Notes, 2020 Notes, 2040 Notes and 2041 Notes (collectively, the Notes) are unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company. The net proceeds from the issuance will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, the repurchase, redemption or retirement of securities including the Companys common stock, acquisitions, additions to working capital and capital expenditures. The interest rate payable on the 2019 Notes is subject to incremental increases from 0.25% to 2.00% in the event either Moodys Investors Services, Inc. (Moodys), Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) or both Moodys and S&P downgrade the 2019 Notes below investment grade (Baa3 and BBB for Moodys and S&P, respectively). As of December 31, 2011, our debt ratings were Baa2 and BBB with Moodys and S&P, respectively, both of which are investment grade. Upon the occurrence of a change of control triggering event, Lorillard Tobacco will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest. A change of control triggering event occurs when there is both a change of control (as defined in the Second Supplemental Indenture) and the Notes cease to be rated investment grade by both Moodys and S&P within 60 days of the occurrence of a change of control or public announcement of the intention to effect a change of control. The Notes are not entitled to any sinking fund and are not redeemable prior to maturity. The Notes contain covenants that restrict liens and sale and leaseback transactions, subject to a limited exception. During 2011, we repurchased approximately 15.6 million shares at a cost of $101.94 per share and totaling $1.586 billion under the $1.4 billion repurchase program announced in August 2010 and amended in May 2011, and the $750 million repurchase program announced in August 2011. As of February 15, 2012, the maximum dollar value of shares that could yet be purchased under the $750 million program was $27 million. Purchases by the Company under these programs were made from time to time at prevailing market prices in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, block purchase techniques or otherwise, as determined by the Companys management. The purchases were funded from existing cash balances, including proceeds from the issuance of the Notes. These programs do not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of its 36 Table of Contents common stock. The timing, frequency and amount of repurchase activity will depend on a variety of factors such as levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements for investment in the Companys business, current stock price, market conditions and other factors. Liquidity We believe that cash flow from operating activities will be sufficient for the foreseeable future to enable us to meet our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements and to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. We cannot predict our cash requirements related to any future settlements or judgments, including cash required to bond any appeals, if necessary, and can make no assurance that we will be able to meet all of those requirements. The rate of return on our pension assets in 2011 was a positive 4.9%. Our pension expense was approximately $15 million in 2011 and we anticipate pension expense of approximately $24 million in 2012. We contributed $28 million to our pension plans in 2011 and anticipate a contribution of $31 million in 2012. We believe that it is appropriate for a company of our size and financial characteristics to have a prudent level of debt as a component of our capital structure in order to reduce our total cost of capital and improve total shareholder returns. Accordingly, we raised $750 million, $1 billion and $750 million of debt financing in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and we expect that we will seek to raise additional debt financing in the future, although the structure, timing and amount of such indebtedness has not yet been determined and will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to the prevailing credit and interest rate environment, our cash requirements, and other business, financial and tax considerations. The proceeds of any such debt financing may be used to fund stock repurchases, acquisitions, dividends or for other general corporate purposes. We presently have no commitments or agreements with or from any third party regarding any debt financing transactions and no assurance can be given that we will ultimately pursue any debt financing or, if pursued, that we will be able to obtain debt financing at the suggested levels or on attractive terms. In March 2010, Lorillard Tobacco, the principal, wholly owned operating subsidiary of the Company, entered into a $185 million revolving credit facility (Revolver) that expires March 26, 2013 and is guaranteed by the Company. Proceeds from the Revolver may be used for general corporate and working capital purposes. The interest rates on borrowings under the Revolver will be based on prevailing interest rates and, in part, upon the credit rating applicable to the Companys senior unsecured long term debt. The Revolver requires that the Company maintain a ratio of debt to net income plus income taxes, interest expense, depreciation and amortization expense, any extraordinary losses, any non cash expenses or losses and any losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business (EBITDA) of not more than 2.25 to 1 and a ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of not less than 3.0 to 1. In addition, the Revolver contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including restrictions on liens and sale and leaseback transactions subject to a limited exception. The Revolver contains customary events of default, including upon a change in control that could result in the acceleration of all amounts and cancellation of all commitments outstanding, if any, under the Revolver. There were no borrowings under the Revolver during 2010 or 2011. State Settlement Agreements The State Settlement Agreements require us and the other Original Participating Manufacturers (Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco)) to make aggregate annual payments of $10.4 billion in perpetuity, subject to adjustment for several factors described below. In addition, the Original Participating Manufacturers are required to pay plaintiffs attorneys fees, subject to an aggregate annual cap of $500 million. These payment obligations are several and not joint obligations of each of the Original Participating Manufacturers. Our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements will materially adversely affect our cash flows and operating income in future years. 37 Table of Contents Both the aggregate payment obligations of the Original Participating Manufacturers, and our payment obligations, individually, under the State Settlement Agreements are subject to adjustment for several factors which include: inflation; aggregate volume of Original Participating Manufacturers cigarette shipments; other Original Participating Manufacturers and our market share; and aggregate Original Participating Manufacturers operating income, allocated to such manufacturers that have operating income increases. The inflation adjustment increases payments on a compounded annual basis by the greater of 3.0% or the actual total percentage change in the consumer price index for the preceding year. The inflation adjustment is measured starting with inflation for 1999. The volume adjustment increases or decreases payments based on the increase or decrease in the total number of cigarettes shipped in or to the 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico by the Original Participating Manufacturers during the preceding year compared to the 1997 base year shipments. If volume has increased, the volume adjustment would increase the annual payment by the same percentage as the number of cigarettes shipped exceeds the 1997 base number. If volume has decreased, the volume adjustment would decrease the annual payment by 98.0% of the percentage reduction in volume. In addition, downward adjustments to the annual payments for changes in volume may, subject to specified conditions and exceptions, be reduced in the event of an increase in the Original Participating Manufacturers aggregate operating income from domestic sales of cigarettes over base year levels established in the State Settlement Agreements, adjusted for inflation. Any adjustments resulting from increases in operating income would be allocated among those Original Participating Manufacturers who have had increases. During 2011, we paid $1.219 billion under the State Settlement Agreements, primarily based on 2010 volume. Included in the above number was $107 million we deposited in an interest bearing escrow account in accordance with procedures established in the MSA pending resolution of a claim by us and the other Original Participating Manufacturers that they are entitled to reduce their MSA payments based on a loss of market share to non participating manufacturers. Most of the states that are parties to the MSA are disputing the availability of the reduction and we believe that this dispute will ultimately be resolved by judicial and arbitration proceedings. Our $107 million reduction is based upon the Original Participating Manufacturers collective loss of market share in 2008. In April of 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we had previously deposited $88 million, $74 million, $72 million, $111 million and $109 million, respectively, in the same escrow account discussed above, which was based on a loss of market share in 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 to non participating manufacturers. In February 2009, we directed the transfer of $72 million from this account to the non disputed account, related to the loss of market share in 2005, pursuant to an Agreement Concerning Arbitration that we and other Participating Manufacturers entered into with certain MSA states. This amount was then paid to the MSA states. We and other Original Participating Manufacturers have the right to claim additional reductions of MSA payments in subsequent years under provisions of the MSA. Contractual Cash Payment Obligations The following table presents the contractual cash payment obligations of Lorillard as of December 31, 2011: Total Lessthan1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years Morethan 5years (In millions) Senior notes $ 2,500 $ $ $ 500 $ 2,000 Interest payments related to notes 2,055 167 504 311 1,073 Contractual purchase obligations 78 78 Operating lease obligations 3 2 1 Total $ 4,636 $ 247 $ 505 $ 811 $ 3,073 As of December 31, 2011, we do not believe that we will make any payments in the next twelve months related to gross unrecognized tax benefits. We cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits that may result in cash settlements for periods beyond twelve months. 38 Table of Contents As previously discussed, we have entered into the State Settlement Agreements which impose a stream of future payment obligations on us and the other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers. Our portion of ongoing adjusted settlement payments, including fees to settling plaintiffs attorneys, are based on a number of factors which are described above. Our cash payment under the State Settlement Agreements in 2011 amounted to $1.219 billion and we estimate our cash payments in 2012 under the State Settlement Agreements will be between $1.350 billion and $1.400 billion, primarily based on 2011 estimated industry volume. Payment obligations are not incurred until the related sales occur and therefore are not reflected in the above table. Please see the discussion of the calculation of the Original Participating Manufacturers base payment obligations under the State Settlement Agreements under State Settlement Agreements on page 37. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements None. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We invest in financial instruments that involve market risk. Our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. Market risk exposure is presented below for each class of financial instrument we held at December 31, 2011, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. We believe that the rate of adverse market movement represents a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. The estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. In addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. The market risk exposure represents the potential loss in carrying value and pretax impact to future earnings caused by the hypothetical change in price. Exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. Senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has the responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. Interest rate risk. Our investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents, consist of money market funds with financial institutions. Those investments are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. A sensitivity analysis, based on a hypothetical 1% increase or decrease in interest rates on our average 2011 investments, would cause an increase or decrease in pre tax income of approximately $16 million. Our debt is denominated in US Dollars and has been issued at a fixed rate. In September 2009, we entered into interest rate swap agreements for a total notional amount of $750 million to hedge changes in fair value of the Notes due to changes in the designated benchmark interest rate. Changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in earnings along with offsetting adjustments to the carrying amount of the hedged debt. A sensitivity analysis, based on a hypothetical 1% change in LIBOR, would cause an increase or decrease in pretax income of approximately $8 million for 2011. Liquidity risk. We may be forced to cash settle all or a portion of our derivative contracts before the expiration date if our debt rating is downgraded below Ba2 by Moodys or BB by S&P. This could have a negative impact on our cash position. Early cash settlement would result in the timing of our hedge settlement not being matched to the cash settlement of the debt. Our current Moodys debt rating is Baa2, and our current S&P debt rating is BBB , both of which are above the ratings at which settlement of our derivative contracts would be required. See Note 11 for additional information on derivatives. 39 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements, the notes related to those financial statements and Item 6. Selected Financial Data appearing herein. In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward looking statements based on current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results and the timing of certain events may differ significantly from those projected in such forward looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth in the Forward Looking Statements, Item 1A. Risk Factors, Business Environment and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The financial statements include our subsidiaries after the elimination of intercompany accounts and transactions. The consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, applied on a consistent basis. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. Significant estimates in the consolidated financial statements and related notes include: (1) accruals for tobacco settlement costs, legal expenses and litigation costs, sales incentive programs, income taxes and share based compensation, (2) the determination of discount and other rate assumptions for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit expenses and (3) the valuation of pension assets. In general, our estimates are based on historical experience, evaluation of current trends, information from third party professionals and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the known facts and circumstances at the time. We consider the accounting policies discussed below to be critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements as their application places the most significant demands on managements judgment. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved with this type of judgment, actual results could differ significantly from estimates and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and equity. Revenue Recognition Revenue from product sales, net of sales incentives, is recognized at the time ownership of the goods transfers to customers and collectability is reasonably assured. Federal excise taxes are recognized on a gross basis and are included in both sales and cost of sales. Sales incentives include retail price discounts, coupons and retail display allowances and are recorded as a reduction of revenue based on amounts estimated as due to customers and consumers at the end of a period based primarily on use and redemption rates. Tobacco Settlement Costs In 1998, Lorillard Tobacco, Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco) (the Original Participating Manufacturers) entered into the MSA with 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. We and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (which are referred to as the Initial State Settlements, and together with the MSA, are referred to as the State Settlement Agreements). Our portion of ongoing adjusted settlement payments and legal fees is based on our relative share of the settling manufacturers domestic cigarette shipments, with respect to the MSA, in the year preceding that in which the payment is due, and, with respect to the Initial State Settlements, in the year in which payment is due. We record our portion of ongoing adjusted settlement payments as part of cost of sales as product is shipped. Please read State Settlement Agreements beginning on page 37 for additional information. 26 Table of Contents Tobacco and Other Litigation We and other cigarette manufacturers continue to be confronted with substantial litigation. Plaintiffs in most of the cases seek unspecified amounts of compensatory damages and punitive damages, although some seek damages ranging into the billions of dollars. Plaintiffs in some of the cases seek treble damages, statutory damages, return of profits, equitable and injunctive relief, and medical monitoring, among other damages. We believe that we have valid defenses to the cases pending against us. We also believe we have valid bases for appeal of the adverse verdicts against us. While we intend to defend vigorously all tobacco products liability litigation, it is not possible to predict the outcome of any of this litigation. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these actions could be decided unfavorably. We may enter into discussions in an attempt to settle particular cases if we believe it is appropriate to do so. We establish accruals in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 450, Contingencies (ASC 450), when a material litigation liability is both probable and can be reasonably estimated. There are a number of factors impacting our ability to estimate the possible loss or a range of loss, including the specific facts of each matter; the legal theories proffered by plaintiffs and legal defenses available to us; the wide ranging outcomes reached in similar cases; differing procedural and substantive laws in the various jurisdictions in which lawsuits have been filed, including whether punitive damages may be pursued or are permissible; the degree of specificity in a plaintiffs complaint; the history of the case and whether discovery has been completed; plaintiffs history of use of our cigarettes relative to those of the other defendants; the attribution of damages, if any, among multiple defendants; the application of contributory and or comparative negligence to the allocation of damage awards among plaintiffs and defendants; the likelihood of settlements for de minimus amounts prior to trial; the likelihood of success at trial; the likelihood of success on appeal; and the impact of current and pending state and federal appellate decisions. It has been our experience and is our continued expectation that the above complexities and uncertainties will not be clarified until the late stages of litigation. For those reasonably possible loss contingencies for which an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss cannot be made, we disclose the nature of the litigation and any developments as appropriate. We monitor the status of all outstanding litigation on an ongoing basis in order to determine the probability of loss and assess whether an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss can be determined. In evaluating litigation, we consider, among other things, the nature of the claims; the jurisdiction in which the claims have been filed and the law and case law developed in that jurisdiction; the experience of plaintiffs counsel in this type of litigation; the parties respective litigation strategies; the stage of the proceedings; the outcome of the matters at trial or on appeal; the type and amount of damages claimed by plaintiffs; the outcomes and damage awards, if any, for similar matters brought against us and or the tobacco industry; and the possibility and likelihood of success on appeal. Our assessment of a possible loss or range of loss is based on our assessment of the final outcome of the litigation upon the conclusion of all appeals. We record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Except for the impact of the State Settlement Agreements as described above, while it is reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, (i) we have concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any material pending litigation against us, (ii) we are unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any material pending litigation due to the many variables, uncertainties and complexities described above, and (iii) accordingly, we have not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for possible losses related to material pending litigation. It is possible that our results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period or its financial position could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending or future litigation or an inability to secure bonds where required to stay the execution of judgments on appeal. Defense costs associated with product liability claims are a significant component of our selling, general and administrative expenses and are accrued as incurred. Defense costs may increase in future periods, in part, as a result of the Engle Progeny Cases as described in Note 19, Legal Proceedings, to our consolidated financial statements beginning on page 73. Numerous factors affect product liability defense costs in any given period. The principal factors are as follows: the number and types of cases filed and appealed; 27 Table of Contents the number of cases tried and appealed; the development of the law; the application of new or different theories of liability by plaintiffs and their counsel; and litigation strategy and tactics. Please read Note 19 Legal Proceedings, to our consolidated financial statements beginning on page 73 for detailed information regarding tobacco litigation affecting us. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations We are required to make a significant number of assumptions in order to estimate the liabilities and costs related to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to employees under our benefit plans. The assumptions that have the most impact on pension costs are the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets and the expected rate of compensation increases. These assumptions are evaluated relative to current market factors such as inflation, interest rates and fiscal and monetary policies. Changes in these assumptions can have a material impact on pension obligations and pension expense. In determining the discount rate assumption, we utilized current market information and liability information, including a discounted cash flow analysis of our pension and postretirement obligations. In particular, the basis for our discount rate selection was the yield on indices of highly rated fixed income debt securities with durations comparable to that of our plan liabilities. The discount rate was determined by projecting the plans expected future benefit payments as defined for the projected benefit obligation, discounting those expected payments using a theoretical zero coupon spot yield curve derived from a universe of high quality bonds as of the measurement date, and solving for the single equivalent discount rate that resulted in the same projected benefit obligation. The salary growth assumption reflects our long term actual experience and future and near term outlook. Long term return on plan assets is determined based on historical portfolio results, asset allocations and managements expectation of the future economic environment. Our major assumptions are set forth in Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 56. For 2011, hypothetical changes in the assumptions we used for the pension plans would have had the following impact on our pension expense: A decrease of 25 basis points in the long term rate of return would have increased our pension expense by approximately $2.4 million; A decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate would have increased our pension expense by approximately $2.6 million; and An increase of 25 basis points in the future salary growth rate would have increased our net pension expense by approximately $0.8 million. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with Accounting Standard Codification Topic 740 Income Taxes. Under ASC 740, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions. The uncertain tax provisions of ASC 740 prescribe a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Additionally, ASC 740 provides guidance on the measurement, derecognition, classification and disclosure of tax positions, along with accounting for the related interest and penalties. 28 Table of Contents Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost, determined on a last in, first out (LIFO) basis, or market. The inventory of leaf tobacco is classified as a current asset in accordance with generally recognized trade practice although, due to the duration of the aging processes, a significant portion of the tobacco on hand will not be sold or used within one year. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please read Recently adopted accounting pronouncements in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 46. Business Environment Participants in the U.S. tobacco industry, including us, face a number of issues that have adversely affected their results of operations and financial condition in the past and will continue to do so, including: A substantial volume of litigation seeking compensatory and punitive damages ranging into the billions of dollars, as well as equitable and injunctive relief, arising out of allegations of cancer and other health effects resulting from the use of cigarettes, addiction to smoking or exposure to environmental tobacco smoke, including claims for economic damages relating to alleged misrepresentation concerning the use of descriptors such as lights, as well as other alleged damages. Substantial annual payments continuing in perpetuity, and significant restrictions on marketing and advertising have been agreed to and are required under the terms of certain settlement agreements, including the Master Settlement Agreement among major tobacco manufacturers and 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions (the MSA) that we entered into in 1998 along with Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco) (the other Original Participating Manufacturers) to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. We and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (the Initial State Settlements, and together with the MSA, the State Settlement Agreements). The State Settlement Agreements impose a stream of future payment obligations on us and on the other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers as product is sold and place significant restrictions on our and their ability to market and sell cigarettes. The domestic cigarette market, in which we conduct our only significant business, continues to contract. As a result of price increases, restrictions on advertising, promotions and smoking in public and private facilities, increases in regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, increased pressure from anti tobacco groups and other factors, domestic cigarette shipments have decreased at a compound rate of approximately 3.6% from 2001 through 2011. Increases in cigarette prices since 1998 have led to an increase in the volume of discount and, specifically, deep discount cigarettes. Cigarette price increases have been driven by increases in federal, state and local excise taxes and by manufacturer price increases. Price increases have led, and continue to lead, to high levels of discounting and other promotional activities for premium brands. Deep discount brands have grown from an estimated domestic shipment share in 1998 of less than 2.0% to an estimated share of 13.9% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, and continue to be a significant competitive factor in the domestic cigarette market. We do not have sufficient empirical data to determine whether the increased price of cigarettes has deterred consumers from starting to smoke or encouraged them to quit smoking, but it is likely that increased prices may have had an adverse effect on consumption and may continue to do so. The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasing regulation. In June 2009, the U.S. Congress passed, and the President signed into law, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the FSPTCA) granting the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products. Pursuant to the terms of the FSPTCA, the FDA established the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee (the TPSAC) to evaluate, among other things, the impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health. In March 2011, the TPSAC issued its report to the FDA stating that removal of menthol cigarettes from the marketplace would benefit public health. On July 21, 2011, TPSAC considered revisions 29 Table of Contents to its report, and the voting members unanimously approved the final report for submission to the FDA with no change in its recommendation. The FDA could promulgate regulations that, among other things, could result in a ban on or restrict the use of menthol in cigarettes. The law imposes and will impose new restrictions on the manner in which cigarettes can be advertised and marketed, requires larger and more severe health warnings on cigarette packaging, permits restriction of the level of tar and nicotine contained in or yielded by cigarettes and may alter the way cigarette products are developed and manufactured. On June 27, 2011, the FDA provided a progress report on its review of the science related to menthol cigarettes. In its Menthol Update, the FDA stated that [e]xperts within the FDA Center for Tobacco Products are conducting an independent review of the science related to the impact [of menthol] in cigarettes on public health The FDA also stated that it will submit its draft independent review of menthol science to an external peer review panel in July 2011, and that following the peer review period (originally announced as three and one half months), the FDA will make available the results of the peer review and its preliminary scientific assessment for public comment. On January 26, 2012, the FDA stated that its report had been submitted to the peer review panel and comments had been received from the panel on the report. The FDA also indicated that its final report, including the peer review comments, will be released for public comment at a future date. In August 2009, we, along with RJR Tobacco, other tobacco manufacturers and a tobacco retailer, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky against the FDA challenging the constitutionality of certain restrictions on speech included in the FSPTCA. These restrictions on speech include, among others, bans on the use of color and graphics in certain tobacco product advertising, limits on the right to make truthful statements regarding modified risk tobacco products, a prohibition on making certain statements about the FDAs regulation of tobacco products, restrictions on the placement of outdoor advertising, a ban on certain promotions offering gifts in consideration for the purchase of tobacco products, a ban on brand name sponsorship of events and the sale of brand name merchandise, and a ban on the distribution of product samples. The suit also challenges the laws requirement for extensive graphic warning labels on all packaging and advertising. The complaint seeks a judgment (i) declaring that such provisions of the law violate the First and or Fifth Amendments of the U.S. Constitution and (ii) enjoining the FDA from enforcing the unconstitutional provisions of the law. On January 4, 2010, the district court issued an order (a) striking down the provisions of the law that banned the use of color and graphics in certain tobacco product advertising and prohibited tobacco manufacturers from making certain statements about the FDAs regulation of tobacco products and (b) upholding the remaining challenged advertising provisions. Both sides have appealed the district courts ruling to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, and the appeal has been fully briefed and argued. While we believe there is established legal precedent supporting our claims we cannot predict the outcome of any such appeal. Nor can we make any assurances that any such appeal will be successful. In February 2011, we, along with RJR Tobacco, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the FDA challenging the composition of the TPSAC because of the FDAs appointment of certain voting members with significant financial conflicts of interest. We believe these members are financially biased because they regularly testify as expert witnesses against tobacco product manufacturers, and because they are paid consultants for pharmaceutical companies that develop and market smoking cessation products. The suit similarly challenges the presence of certain conflicted individuals on the Constituents Subcommittee of the TPSAC. The complaint seeks a judgment (i) declaring that, among other things, the appointment of the conflicted individuals to the TPSAC (and its Constituents Subcommittee) was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, and otherwise not in compliance with the law because it prevented the TPSAC from preparing a report that was unbiased and untainted by conflicts of interest, and (ii) enjoining the FDA from, among other things, relying on the TPSACs report. The FDA has filed a motion to dismiss this action, the parties have briefed the issue and a hearing was scheduled for February 14, 2012. In August 2011, we, along with RJR Tobacco and several other tobacco manufacturers, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the FDA challenging the constitutionality of certain regulations requiring specific graphic warning labels on all packaging and advertising. The Complaint seeks a judgment (i) declaring that the regulations violate the First Amendment; (ii) declaring that the regulations violate various provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act; (iii) declaring that the textual and graphic warnings required under the 30 Table of Contents FSPTCA shall become effective 15 months after the FDA issues regulations that are permissible under the U.S. Constitution and federal law; and (iv) preliminarily and permanently enjoining enforcement of the regulations. Plaintiffs have moved for a preliminary injunction, and after full briefing and oral argument, the district court granted plaintiffs motion. The FDA has appealed that decision to the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. Briefing is ongoing, and oral argument is scheduled for April 2012. Plaintiffs also moved in the district court for summary judgment in their favor. The FDA has opposed Plaintiffs motion and has cross moved for summary judgment in its favor. The district court granted a motion to expedite consideration of the cross summary judgment motions. Oral argument on those motions was held on February 1, 2012 before the district court. As of February 9, 2012, the court has not ruled on the motions. The federal government and many state and local governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, have adopted legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit, restrict or discourage smoking, including legislation, regulations or policies prohibiting or restricting smoking in public buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars, on airline flights and in the workplace. Other similar laws and regulations are under consideration and may be enacted by federal, state and local governments in the future. Substantial federal, state and local excise taxes are reflected in the retail price of cigarettes. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, the federal excise tax was $1.0066 per pack and combined state and local excise taxes ranged from $0.17 to $5.85 per pack. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, excise tax increases ranging from $0.20 to $0.40 per pack were implemented in three states and the District of Columbia and one state excise tax decrease of $0.10 in New Hampshire. On June 21, 2010, New York state legislature approved a $1.60 per pack state excise tax increase that was implemented on July 1, 2010. The federal excise tax on cigarettes increased by $0.6166 per pack to $1.0066 per pack, effective April 1, 2009, to finance health insurance for children. It is likely that increases in excise and similar taxes have had an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes and that the most recent increase and future increases, the extent of which cannot be predicted, could result in further volume declines for the cigarette industry, including us, and an increased sales shift toward deep discount cigarettes rather than premium brands. In addition, we and other cigarette manufacturers and importers are required to pay an assessment under a federal law designed to fund payments to tobacco quota holders and growers and are required to pay an annual user fee to the FDA. The domestic market for cigarettes is highly competitive. Competition is primarily based on a brands taste; quality; price, including the level of discounting and other promotional activities; positioning; consumer loyalty; and retail display. Our principal competitors are the two other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, Philip Morris USA and RJR Tobacco. We also compete with numerous other smaller manufacturers and importers of cigarettes, including deep discount cigarette manufacturers. We believe our ability to compete even more effectively has been restrained in some marketing areas as a result of retail merchandising contracts offered by Philip Morris USA and RJR Tobacco which limit the retail shelf space available to our brands. As a result, in some retail locations we are limited in competitively supporting our promotional programs, which may constrain sales. 31 Table of Contents The following table presents selected Lorillard and industry shipment data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: Selected Industry Data (3) Year Ended December 31, (Volume in billions) 2011 2010 2009 Lorillard total domestic unit volume (1) 40.034 37.433 35.560 Industry total domestic unit volume (1) 293.098 303.679 315.735 Lorillards premium volume as a percentage of its total volume (2) 85.6% 86.6% 89.2% Newports share of Lorillards total volume (2) 84.5% 85.2% 87.5% Newports share of Lorillards net sales (2) 88.4% 88.8% 90.0% (1) Source: Management Science Associates, Inc. (MSAI), an independent third party database management organization that collects wholesale shipment data from various cigarette manufacturers. MSAI divides the cigarette market into two price segments, the premium price segment and the discount or reduced price segment. MSAIs information relating to unit sales volume and market share of certain of the smaller, primarily deep discount, cigarette manufacturers is based on estimates derived by MSAI. Management believes that volume and market share information for deep discount manufacturers may be understated. (2) Source: Lorillard shipment reports. (3) Domestic unit volume includes units sold as well as promotional units and excludes volumes for Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions. The following table presents selected Lorillard and industry retail market share data for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, based on Lorillards proprietary retail shipment data, EXCEL, which reflects shipments from wholesalers to retailers. Selected Domestic Retail Market Share Data(1) Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Lorillards share of the retail market 14.1 % 12.9 % 11.8 % Lorillards share of the premium market 16.5 % 15.2 % 14.3 % Lorillards share of the menthol market (2) 39.1 % 38.4 % 36.9 % Newports share of the retail market 11.9 % 10.9 % 10.3 % Newports share of the premium market 16.3 % 15.0 % 14.0 % Newports share of the menthol market (2) 36.2 % 36.0 % 35.1 % Total menthol segment market share for the industry (2) 30.6 % 30.0 % 29.3 % Total discount segment market share for the industry 27.1 % 26.9 % 26.7 % (1) Source: Lorillards proprietary retail shipment data, EXCEL, which reflect shipments from wholesalers to retailers. (2) Lorillard has made certain adjustments to its proprietary retail shipment data to reflect managements judgment as to which brands are included in the menthol segment. Income Statement Captions Net sales includes revenue from product sales, net of sales incentives, and is recognized at the time that ownership of the goods transfers to customers and collectability is reasonably assured. Federal excise taxes are recognized on a gross basis, and are included in both net sales and cost of sales. Sales incentives include retail price discounts, coupons and retail display allowances, and are recorded as a reduction of revenue based on amounts estimated as due to customers and consumers at the end of a period based primarily on use and redemption rates. Cost of sales includes federal excise taxes, leaf tobacco cost, wrapping and casing material, manufacturing labor and production salaries, wages and overhead, depreciation related to manufacturing plant and equipment, research and development costs, distribution, other manufacturing costs, State Settlement Agreement expenses, the federal assessment for tobacco growers and promotional product expenses. Promotional product expenses include the cost, including all applicable excise taxes, of the free portion of buy some get some free promotions. 32 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses includes sales force expenses, legal and other costs of litigating and administering product liability claims, administrative expenses and advertising and marketing costs. Advertising and marketing costs include items such as direct mail, advertising, agency fees and point of sale materials. Investment income includes interest and dividend income, realized gains and losses on sale of investments and equity in the earnings of limited partnership investments. Interest expense includes interest expense related to debt and income taxes. Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2011 Compared to the Year ended December 31, 2010 2011 2010 (In millions) Net sales (including excise taxes of $2,014 and $1,879) $ 6,466 $ 5,932 Cost of sales 4,123 3,809 Gross profit 2,343 2,123 Selling, general and administrative 451 398 Operating income 1,892 1,725 Investment income 3 4 Interest expense (125 ) (94 ) Income before income taxes 1,770 1,635 Income taxes 654 606 Net income $ 1,116 $ 1,029 Net sales. Net sales increased by $534 million, or 9.0%, from $5.932 billion in 2010 to $6.466 billion in 2011. Net sales increased $486 million due to higher unit sales volume (including $135 million of federal excise tax) and $150 million due to higher average unit prices reflecting price increases in February, May and November 2010 and July and December 2011. These increases were partially offset by $102 million of higher sales incentives in 2011. Federal excise taxes are included in net sales and increased $30.83 per thousand units, or $0.62 per pack of 20 units, to $50.33 per thousand cigarettes, or $1.01 per pack of 20 cigarettes, effective April 1, 2009. Total Lorillard wholesale unit volume, which includes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, increased 6.9% during 2011 compared 2010. Domestic unit volume, which excludes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, also increased 6.9% in 2011 compared to 2010. Unit volume figures in this section are provided on a gross basis. Total unit volume for Newport, the Companys flagship brand, increased 6.0% in 2011 and domestic Newport unit volume increased 6.1% in 2011 compared to 2010. Domestic wholesale shipments for Maverick, the Companys leading discount brand, increased 16.0% in 2011 compared 2010. Total cigarette industry domestic wholesale shipments decreased an estimated 3.5% in 2011 compared to 2010. Based on our proprietary retail shipment data (Excel), which measures shipments from wholesale to retail and is unaffected by changes in wholesale inventory patterns, Lorillards domestic retail market share increased 1.2 share points in 2011 to 14.1%. Newports domestic retail market share reached 11.9% during 2011, an increase of 1.0 share points compared to 2010. The Companys strategic initiatives including the successful launch of Newport Non Menthol, geographic expansion initiatives on Newport Menthol and continued retail shipment growth on Maverick accounted for the increase in volume and market share growth. Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by $314 million, or 8.2%, from $3.809 billion in 2010 to $4.123 billion in 2011. The increase in cost of sales is primarily due to higher unit sales volume ($166 million, including $135 million of federal excise tax), higher raw material costs, primarily tobacco and wrapping materials ($28 million), higher expenses related to the State Settlement Agreements ($95 million), higher Food and Drug Administration fees ($25 million) and the Federal Assessment for Tobacco Growers ($9 million). We recorded pre tax charges for our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements of $1.307 billion and $1.212 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, an increase of $95 million. The $95 million increase is due to the impact of higher unit sales ($93), the impact of the inflation adjustment ($36 million), partially offset by other adjustments ($34 million). Other adjustments include a favorable impact on tobacco settlement expense of $25 million resulting 33 Table of Contents from a competitors adoption of mark to market pension accounting in the fourth quarter of 2011. The reduction in our costs associated with the mark to market adjustment reported by Reynolds American amounted to approximately $3 million and was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011. In addition, industry operating profits reported in prior years were reduced as a result of the restatement arising from Reynolds Americans accounting change, which had the effect of further reducing the amounts due under the State Settlement Agreements by approximately $22 million. Tobacco settlement expenses are impacted by a number of factors including industry profits, which were significantly reduced in the fourth quarter by the competitors accounting change. Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $53 million, or 13.3%, from $398 million in 2010 to $451 million in 2011. The increase in 2011 is primarily a result of higher legal costs related to the Engle Progeny litigation. In addition, certain other selling, general and administrative costs increased due to higher compensation costs and higher administrative costs incurred in support of strategic initiatives, including market research and advertising costs related to the launch of Newport Non Menthol, as well as costs incurred in support of the Companys position and industry reports to the FDA regarding the use of Menthol in cigarettes. Interest expense. Interest expense increased $31 million in 2011, compared to 2010, and reflects interest on the senior notes issued in the second quarter of 2010 and the third quarter of 2011. Income taxes. Income taxes increased $48 million or 7.9%, from $606 million in 2010 to $654 million in 2011. The change reflects the increase in income before income taxes of $135 million in 2011 or 8.3%, offset partially by a decrease in the effective tax rate from 37.1% to 37.0% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. The decrease was primarily driven by state tax law changes enacted during the second quarter of 2011 as well as the settlement of certain state and federal tax matters. Year ended December 31, 2010 Compared to the Year ended December 31, 2009 2010 2009 (In millions) Net sales (including excise taxes of $1,879 and $1,547) $ 5,932 $ 5,233 Cost of sales 3,809 3,327 Gross profit 2,123 1,906 Selling, general and administrative 398 365 Operating income 1,725 1,541 Investment income 4 5 Interest expense (94 ) (27 ) Income before income taxes 1,635 1,519 Income taxes 606 571 Net income $ 1,029 $ 948 Net sales. Net sales increased by $699 million, or 13.4%, from $5.233 billion in 2009 to $5.932 billion in 2010. Net sales increased $287 million due to the increase in federal excise taxes effective April 1, 2009, $287 million due to higher unit sales volume and $80 million due to higher average unit prices reflecting price increases in February and March 2009 and February, May and November 2010 and $45 million of lower sales incentives in 2010. Federal excise taxes are included in net sales and increased $30.83 per thousand units, or $0.62 per pack of 20 units, to $50.33 per thousand cigarettes, or $1.01 per pack of 20 cigarettes, effective April 1, 2009. Total Lorillard wholesale unit volume, which includes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, increased 5.0% during 2010 compared to 2009. Domestic unit volume, which excludes Puerto Rico and U.S. Possessions, increased 5.3% in 2010 compared to 2009. Unit volume figures in this section are provided on a gross basis. Total unit volume for Newport, the Companys flagship brand, increased 2.3% in 2010 and domestic Newport unit volume increased 2.5% in 2010 compared to 2009. Domestic wholesale shipments for Maverick, the Companys leading discount brand, increased 31.5% in 2010 compared to 2009. Excluding the launch of Newport Non Menthol in the fourth quarter of 2010, Newports domestic wholesale unit shipments increased 1.2% during 2010. Industry wide domestic unit volume decreased an estimated 3.8% during 2010 compared to 2009. 34 Table of Contents Based on our proprietary retail shipment data (Excel), which measures shipments from wholesale to retail and is unaffected by changes in wholesale inventory patterns, Lorillards domestic retail market share increased 1.1 share points in 2010 to 12.9%. Newports domestic retail market share reached 10.9% during 2010, an increase of 0.6 share points compared to 2009. The Companys successful launch of Newport Non Menthol, geographic expansion initiatives on Newport Menthol and continued retail shipment growth on Maverick accounted for the increase in volume and market share growth. Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased by $482 million, or 14.5%, from $3.327 billion in 2009 to $3.809 billion in 2010. The increase in cost of sales is primarily due to the increase in federal excise taxes ($287 million), higher unit sales volume ($67 million), higher raw material costs, primarily tobacco and wrapping materials ($7 million), higher expenses related to the State Settlement Agreements ($84 million), higher Food and Drug Administration fees ($26 million) and the Federal Assessment for Tobacco Growers ($11 million). We recorded pre tax charges for our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements of $1.212 billion and $1.128 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, an increase of $84 million. The $84 million increase is due to the impact of higher unit sales ($54), the impact of the inflation adjustment ($32 million), partially offset by other adjustments ($2 million). Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $33 million, or 9.0%, from $365 million in 2009 to $398 million in 2010 as a result of higher legal and compensation costs incurred in the current year. Interest expense. Interest expense increased $67 million in 2010, compared to 2009, and reflects interest on the senior notes issued in the second quarter of 2009, net of the effect of interest rate swap agreements, and interest on the senior notes issued in the second quarter of 2010. Income taxes. Income taxes increased $35 million or 6.1%, from $571 million in 2009 to $606 million in 2010. The change reflects the increase in income before income taxes of $116 million in 2010 or 7.6%, offset partially by a decrease in the effective tax rate from 37.6% to 37.1% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. The decrease was driven by a statutory increase in the manufacturers deduction, offset partially by the unfavorable impact of the repeal of future tax deductions for Medicare Part D subsidies for retiree drug benefits pursuant to the health care reform legislation enacted during the first quarter of 2010. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our cash and cash equivalents of $1.634 billion at December 31, 2011 were invested in prime money market funds. Cash Flows Cash flow from operating activities. The principal source of liquidity for our business and operating needs is internally generated funds from our operations. We generated net cash flow from operations of $1.183 billion for 2011 compared to $1.091 billion for 2010. The increased cash flow in 2011 primarily reflects the increase in net income. Net cash flow from operations was $1.091 billion for 2010, compared to $1.037 billion for 2009. The increased cash flow in 2010 primarily reflects the increase in net income. Cash flow from investing activities. Our cash flow from investing activities used cash of $56 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 compared to $40 million for 2010. The increase in cash flow used by investing activities in 2011 is due to increased purchases of equipment. Our cash flow from investing activities used cash of $40 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 compared to $51 million for 2009. The decrease in cash flow used by investing activities in 2010 is due to decreased purchases of equipment. Capital expenditures were $56 million, $40 million and $51 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The expenditures were primarily for the modernization of manufacturing equipment. Our capital expenditures for 2012 are forecast to be between $65 million and $75 million. Cash flow from financing activities. Our cash flow from operations has exceeded our working capital and capital expenditure requirements in each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. In 2009, we paid cash dividends of $155 million, $155 million, $163 million and $158 million on March 12, 2009, June 12, 2009, 35 Table of Contents September 11, 2009 and December 11, 2009, respectively. In 2010, we paid cash dividends of $155 million, $152 million, $171 million and $167 million on March 11, 2010, June 11, 2010, September 10, 2010 and December 13, 2010, respectively. In 2011, we paid cash dividends of $188 million, $185 million, $177 million and $173 million on March 11, 2011, June 10, 2011, September 12, 2011 and December 12, 2011, respectively. In June 2009, Lorillard Tobacco issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 8.125% unsecured senior notes due June 23, 2019 (the 2019 Notes) pursuant to an Indenture, dated June 23, 2009 (the Indenture), and First Supplemental Indenture, dated June 23, 2009 (the First Supplemental Indenture). In September 2009, Lorillard Tobacco entered into interest rate swap agreements, which the Company guaranteed, with a total notional amount of $750 million to modify its exposure to interest rate risk by effectively converting the interest rate payable on the 2019 Notes from a fixed rate to a floating rate. Under the agreements, Lorillard Tobacco receives interest based on a fixed rate of 8.125% and pays interest based on a floating one month LIBOR rate plus a spread of 4.625%. The variable rates were 4.896% and 4.886% as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The agreements expire in June 2019. The interest rate swap agreements qualify for hedge accounting and were designated as fair value hedges. Under the swap agreements, Lorillard Tobacco receives a fixed rate settlement and pays a variable rate settlement with the difference recorded in interest expense. That difference reduced interest expense by $24 and $24 and for the years ended 2011 and 2010, respectively. In April 2010, Lorillard Tobacco issued $1 billion of unsecured senior notes in two tranches pursuant to Indenture, and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated April 12, 2010 (the Second Supplemental Indenture). The first tranche was $750 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Notes due May 1, 2020 (the 2020 Notes), and the second tranche was $250 million aggregate principal amount of 8.125% Notes due May 1, 2040 (the 2040 Notes). In August 2011, Lorillard Tobacco issued $750 million of unsecured senior notes in two tranches pursuant to the Indenture and the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated August 4, 2011 (the Third Supplemental Indenture). The first tranche was $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.500% Notes due August 4, 2016 (the 2016 Notes) and the second tranche was $250 million aggregate principal amount of 7.000% Notes due August 4, 2041 (the 2041 Notes). Lorillard Tobacco is the principal, wholly owned operating subsidiary of the Company and the 2016 Notes, 2019 Notes, 2020 Notes, 2040 Notes and 2041 Notes (collectively, the Notes) are unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company. The net proceeds from the issuance will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, the repurchase, redemption or retirement of securities including the Companys common stock, acquisitions, additions to working capital and capital expenditures. The interest rate payable on the 2019 Notes is subject to incremental increases from 0.25% to 2.00% in the event either Moodys Investors Services, Inc. (Moodys), Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) or both Moodys and S&P downgrade the 2019 Notes below investment grade (Baa3 and BBB for Moodys and S&P, respectively). As of December 31, 2011, our debt ratings were Baa2 and BBB with Moodys and S&P, respectively, both of which are investment grade. Upon the occurrence of a change of control triggering event, Lorillard Tobacco will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest. A change of control triggering event occurs when there is both a change of control (as defined in the Second Supplemental Indenture) and the Notes cease to be rated investment grade by both Moodys and S&P within 60 days of the occurrence of a change of control or public announcement of the intention to effect a change of control. The Notes are not entitled to any sinking fund and are not redeemable prior to maturity. The Notes contain covenants that restrict liens and sale and leaseback transactions, subject to a limited exception. During 2011, we repurchased approximately 15.6 million shares at a cost of $101.94 per share and totaling $1.586 billion under the $1.4 billion repurchase program announced in August 2010 and amended in May 2011, and the $750 million repurchase program announced in August 2011. As of February 15, 2012, the maximum dollar value of shares that could yet be purchased under the $750 million program was $27 million. Purchases by the Company under these programs were made from time to time at prevailing market prices in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, block purchase techniques or otherwise, as determined by the Companys management. The purchases were funded from existing cash balances, including proceeds from the issuance of the Notes. These programs do not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of its 36 Table of Contents common stock. The timing, frequency and amount of repurchase activity will depend on a variety of factors such as levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements for investment in the Companys business, current stock price, market conditions and other factors. Liquidity We believe that cash flow from operating activities will be sufficient for the foreseeable future to enable us to meet our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements and to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. We cannot predict our cash requirements related to any future settlements or judgments, including cash required to bond any appeals, if necessary, and can make no assurance that we will be able to meet all of those requirements. The rate of return on our pension assets in 2011 was a positive 4.9%. Our pension expense was approximately $15 million in 2011 and we anticipate pension expense of approximately $24 million in 2012. We contributed $28 million to our pension plans in 2011 and anticipate a contribution of $31 million in 2012. We believe that it is appropriate for a company of our size and financial characteristics to have a prudent level of debt as a component of our capital structure in order to reduce our total cost of capital and improve total shareholder returns. Accordingly, we raised $750 million, $1 billion and $750 million of debt financing in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and we expect that we will seek to raise additional debt financing in the future, although the structure, timing and amount of such indebtedness has not yet been determined and will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to the prevailing credit and interest rate environment, our cash requirements, and other business, financial and tax considerations. The proceeds of any such debt financing may be used to fund stock repurchases, acquisitions, dividends or for other general corporate purposes. We presently have no commitments or agreements with or from any third party regarding any debt financing transactions and no assurance can be given that we will ultimately pursue any debt financing or, if pursued, that we will be able to obtain debt financing at the suggested levels or on attractive terms. In March 2010, Lorillard Tobacco, the principal, wholly owned operating subsidiary of the Company, entered into a $185 million revolving credit facility (Revolver) that expires March 26, 2013 and is guaranteed by the Company. Proceeds from the Revolver may be used for general corporate and working capital purposes. The interest rates on borrowings under the Revolver will be based on prevailing interest rates and, in part, upon the credit rating applicable to the Companys senior unsecured long term debt. The Revolver requires that the Company maintain a ratio of debt to net income plus income taxes, interest expense, depreciation and amortization expense, any extraordinary losses, any non cash expenses or losses and any losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business (EBITDA) of not more than 2.25 to 1 and a ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of not less than 3.0 to 1. In addition, the Revolver contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including restrictions on liens and sale and leaseback transactions subject to a limited exception. The Revolver contains customary events of default, including upon a change in control that could result in the acceleration of all amounts and cancellation of all commitments outstanding, if any, under the Revolver. There were no borrowings under the Revolver during 2010 or 2011. State Settlement Agreements The State Settlement Agreements require us and the other Original Participating Manufacturers (Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco)) to make aggregate annual payments of $10.4 billion in perpetuity, subject to adjustment for several factors described below. In addition, the Original Participating Manufacturers are required to pay plaintiffs attorneys fees, subject to an aggregate annual cap of $500 million. These payment obligations are several and not joint obligations of each of the Original Participating Manufacturers. Our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements will materially adversely affect our cash flows and operating income in future years. 37 Table of Contents Both the aggregate payment obligations of the Original Participating Manufacturers, and our payment obligations, individually, under the State Settlement Agreements are subject to adjustment for several factors which include: inflation; aggregate volume of Original Participating Manufacturers cigarette shipments; other Original Participating Manufacturers and our market share; and aggregate Original Participating Manufacturers operating income, allocated to such manufacturers that have operating income increases. The inflation adjustment increases payments on a compounded annual basis by the greater of 3.0% or the actual total percentage change in the consumer price index for the preceding year. The inflation adjustment is measured starting with inflation for 1999. The volume adjustment increases or decreases payments based on the increase or decrease in the total number of cigarettes shipped in or to the 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico by the Original Participating Manufacturers during the preceding year compared to the 1997 base year shipments. If volume has increased, the volume adjustment would increase the annual payment by the same percentage as the number of cigarettes shipped exceeds the 1997 base number. If volume has decreased, the volume adjustment would decrease the annual payment by 98.0% of the percentage reduction in volume. In addition, downward adjustments to the annual payments for changes in volume may, subject to specified conditions and exceptions, be reduced in the event of an increase in the Original Participating Manufacturers aggregate operating income from domestic sales of cigarettes over base year levels established in the State Settlement Agreements, adjusted for inflation. Any adjustments resulting from increases in operating income would be allocated among those Original Participating Manufacturers who have had increases. During 2011, we paid $1.219 billion under the State Settlement Agreements, primarily based on 2010 volume. Included in the above number was $107 million we deposited in an interest bearing escrow account in accordance with procedures established in the MSA pending resolution of a claim by us and the other Original Participating Manufacturers that they are entitled to reduce their MSA payments based on a loss of market share to non participating manufacturers. Most of the states that are parties to the MSA are disputing the availability of the reduction and we believe that this dispute will ultimately be resolved by judicial and arbitration proceedings. Our $107 million reduction is based upon the Original Participating Manufacturers collective loss of market share in 2008. In April of 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we had previously deposited $88 million, $74 million, $72 million, $111 million and $109 million, respectively, in the same escrow account discussed above, which was based on a loss of market share in 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 to non participating manufacturers. In February 2009, we directed the transfer of $72 million from this account to the non disputed account, related to the loss of market share in 2005, pursuant to an Agreement Concerning Arbitration that we and other Participating Manufacturers entered into with certain MSA states. This amount was then paid to the MSA states. We and other Original Participating Manufacturers have the right to claim additional reductions of MSA payments in subsequent years under provisions of the MSA. Contractual Cash Payment Obligations The following table presents the contractual cash payment obligations of Lorillard as of December 31, 2011: Total Lessthan1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years Morethan 5years (In millions) Senior notes $ 2,500 $ $ $ 500 $ 2,000 Interest payments related to notes 2,055 167 504 311 1,073 Contractual purchase obligations 78 78 Operating lease obligations 3 2 1 Total $ 4,636 $ 247 $ 505 $ 811 $ 3,073 As of December 31, 2011, we do not believe that we will make any payments in the next twelve months related to gross unrecognized tax benefits. We cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits that may result in cash settlements for periods beyond twelve months. 38 Table of Contents As previously discussed, we have entered into the State Settlement Agreements which impose a stream of future payment obligations on us and the other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers. Our portion of ongoing adjusted settlement payments, including fees to settling plaintiffs attorneys, are based on a number of factors which are described above. Our cash payment under the State Settlement Agreements in 2011 amounted to $1.219 billion and we estimate our cash payments in 2012 under the State Settlement Agreements will be between $1.350 billion and $1.400 billion, primarily based on 2011 estimated industry volume. Payment obligations are not incurred until the related sales occur and therefore are not reflected in the above table. Please see the discussion of the calculation of the Original Participating Manufacturers base payment obligations under the State Settlement Agreements under State Settlement Agreements on page 37. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements None. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We invest in financial instruments that involve market risk. Our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. Market risk exposure is presented below for each class of financial instrument we held at December 31, 2011, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. We believe that the rate of adverse market movement represents a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. The estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. In addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. The market risk exposure represents the potential loss in carrying value and pretax impact to future earnings caused by the hypothetical change in price. Exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. Senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has the responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. Interest rate risk. Our investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents, consist of money market funds with financial institutions. Those investments are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. A sensitivity analysis, based on a hypothetical 1% increase or decrease in interest rates on our average 2011 investments, would cause an increase or decrease in pre tax income of approximately $16 million. Our debt is denominated in US Dollars and has been issued at a fixed rate. In September 2009, we entered into interest rate swap agreements for a total notional amount of $750 million to hedge changes in fair value of the Notes due to changes in the designated benchmark interest rate. Changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in earnings along with offsetting adjustments to the carrying amount of the hedged debt. A sensitivity analysis, based on a hypothetical 1% change in LIBOR, would cause an increase or decrease in pretax income of approximately $8 million for 2011. Liquidity risk. We may be forced to cash settle all or a portion of our derivative contracts before the expiration date if our debt rating is downgraded below Ba2 by Moodys or BB by S&P. This could have a negative impact on our cash position. Early cash settlement would result in the timing of our hedge settlement not being matched to the cash settlement of the debt. Our current Moodys debt rating is Baa2, and our current S&P debt rating is BBB , both of which are above the ratings at which settlement of our derivative contracts would be required. See Note 11 for additional information on derivatives. 39 Table of Contents 
 
