FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20091105071037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 5, 2009, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release announcing its results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of the news release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations is included as Exhibit 99.3 to this report.
 
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 8:30 a.m. EST on November 5, 2009, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will discuss the Company's results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. The slide presentation for the conference call is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 CareFusion Corp. (NYSE: CFN), a leading, global medical device company created on Sept. 1 through the spinoff of Cardinal Health's clinical and medical products businesses, today reported increases in revenue, gross margin, net income and EPS for the first quarter of its fiscal 2010 and raised its full-year adjusted EPS outlook.
SAN DIEGO, Nov. 5, 2009
"I am pleased with our strong results during the first quarter while executing the spinoff and establishing CareFusion as a public company," said David Schlotterbeck, chairman and CEO of CareFusion. "While the hospital capital equipment markets remained challenging, we executed well, grew our top and bottom lines, and expanded margins against a very strong first quarter in the prior year. Based on our first quarter results and improved visibility to revenue and gross margin trends throughout the remainder of the year, we are raising our full-year adjusted EPS guidance to $1.35 to $1.45."
CareFusion's reported results are from continuing operations for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2009 compared to the prior year quarter ended Sept. 30, 2008.
Revenue increased 1 percent to $923 million, or 4 percent on a constant currency basis, driven primarily by increased sales of ventilators, infusion pumps and perioperative dispensing systems. Operating earnings rose 30 percent to $117 million, due to favorable product mix and a 1 percent improvement in gross margins. Income from continuing operations increased 83 percent to $55 million, or $0.25 per diluted share.
Excluding one-time items, adjusted operating earnings increased 12 percent to $134 million and adjusted net income increased 71 percent to $87 million, or $0.39 per diluted share.
Operating expenses, including selling, general and administrative (SG&A), research and development (R&D), and restructuring and acquisition integration charges totaled $334 million or 36 percent of total revenue. Excluding $17 million of one-time items, adjusted operating expenses totaled $317 million, or 34 percent of total revenue. SG&A expenses on an adjusted basis of $281 million and R&D investments of $36 million or 4 percent of revenue were both even with the prior year period.
Adjusted earnings, adjusted net income, adjusted operating earnings, adjusted operating expenses and adjusted segment profit are non-GAAP financial measures and exclude restructuring and acquisition integration charges, one-time spinoff related costs, non-recurring tax items, and discontinued operations. Adjusted net income also excludes one-time costs related to the bridge loan entered into in connection with the spinoff. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included later in this news release.
Critical Care Technologies
Revenue for the Critical Care Technologies segment, which includes the company's Dispensing, Infusion and Respiratory businesses, totaled $617 million, even with the prior year period, or increased 2 percent on a constant currency basis. Segment profit increased 35 percent to $101 million. Adjusted segment profit increased 16 percent to $112 million, driven by gross margin improvements and savings from the March 2009 global workforce reduction program, which were partially offset by incremental operating costs from standing up as a public company.
Medical Technologies and Services
Revenue for the Medical Technologies and Services segment, which includes the company's Infection Prevention and Medical Specialties businesses, increased 3 percent to $306 million, or 8 percent on a constant currency basis, driven by increased sales of non-invasive surgical products, sales of ChloraPrep skin antiseptic product and international distribution sales. Segment profit increased 7 percent to $16 million. Adjusted segment profit decreased 8 percent to $22 million, driven by incremental operating costs from standing up as a public company, which were partially offset by gross margin improvements.
Additional First Quarter and Recent Highlights
Additional first quarter and recent company highlights include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal 2010 Outlook
The company raised its adjusted diluted EPS outlook for fiscal 2010 to be in the range of $1.35 to $1.45, an increase over the previously provided range of $1.10 to $1.20. The guidance for fiscal 2010 is based on an assumed diluted weighted average outstanding share count of approximately 221 million.
Conference Call
CareFusion will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. EST to discuss earnings results for the first quarter.
The number to call from within the United States is (800) 510-9836 or + 1 (617) 614-3670 Internationally, using the pass code 54900921. A replay of the conference call will be available from 11 a.m. EST on November 5 through 11:59 p.m. EST on November 7 and can be accessed by dialing (888) 286-8010 in the United States or +1 (617) 801-6888 Internationally and using the pass code 54800850.
The Conference Call will also be webcast live through the Investor Relations section, under Calendar of Events, on CareFusion's website at .
www.carefusion.com
Log on at least 15 minutes before the call begins to register and download or install any necessary audio software.
About CareFusion Corporation
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve the safety and quality of care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris IV pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AVEA and Pulmonetic Systems ventilation and respiratory products, ChloraPrep for infection prevention, MedMined services for infection surveillance, neurological monitoring and diagnostic products, V. Mueller surgical instruments, and an extensive line of products that support interventional medicine. CareFusion employs more than 15,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
www.carefusion.com
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures by CareFusion Corporation
The CareFusion news release presents the non-GAAP measures "adjusted operating expense", "adjusted operating income", "adjusted net income", "adjusted diluted earnings per share" and "adjusted segment profit". The most directly comparable measure for these non-GAAP financial measures are operating expenses, operating income, net income, diluted earnings per share and segment profit. The company has included below unaudited adjusted financial information for the quarters ended September 30, 2009 and 2008, which present the company's results of operations after excluding restructuring and acquisition integration charges, one-time spinoff related costs, non-recurring tax items, and discontinued operations.
In addition CareFusion presents the non-GAAP measures "adjusted diluted earnings per share" on a forward-looking basis. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure for the company is diluted earnings per share. CareFusion is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of this forward-looking non-GAAP measure to the most
directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure, because the company cannot reliably forecast merger integration and restructuring costs and acquired in-process research and development costs, and other one-time costs. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact CareFusion's future financial results. A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding CareFusion's financial condition and results of operations is included as Exhibit 99.3 to CareFusion's report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 5, 2009.
Cautions concerning forward-looking statements
The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in CareFusion's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: we may be unable to effectively enhance our existing products or introduce and market new products or may fail to keep pace with advances in technology; we are subject to complex and costly regulation; cost containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third-party payers and governmental organizations could adversely affect our sales and profitability; declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition; we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others; defects or failures associated with our products and/or our quality system could lead to the filing of adverse event reports, recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity and could subject us to regulatory actions; we are currently operating under a consent decree with the FDA and our failure to comply with the requirements of the consent decree may have an adverse effect on our business; and we may face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform. The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein reflect management's views as of November 5, 2009. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, CareFusion undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 


Exhibit 99.3
In addition to financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), information containing non-GAAP financial measures for CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") was disclosed in the Company's news release (the "News Release") dated November 5, 2009 announcing results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and in a slide presentation (the "Presentation") that accompanied a conference call held by the Company on November 5, 2009 to discuss the Company's financial results and outlook for its fiscal year ending June 30, 2010. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The Company has provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental metrics to assist readers. Definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures are included in the News Release.
In the News Release and the Presentation, the Company presented the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted operating expense", "adjusted operating income", "adjusted net income", "adjusted diluted earnings per share" and "adjusted segment profit." These non-GAAP financial measures exclude restructuring and acquisition integration charges, one-time spinoff related costs, non-recurring tax items, and additionally in the case of "adjusted net income" and "adjusted diluted earnings per share", the results of discontinued operations. A restructuring activity is a program whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re-alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Restructuring charges are recorded in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 420 "Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations" ("ASC 420"). Under ASC 420, a liability is measured at its fair value and recognized as incurred. One-time spinoff related charges are items, based on Company management judgment, that are incremental expenses directly associated with the spinoff from Cardinal Health and will not recur. Non-recurring tax items are, based on Company management judgment, one-time tax impacts related to unusual or infrequent transactions not indicative of future operations.
Company management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing healthcare products and services to the healthcare industry, its management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring activities and acquisition integration, one-time items related to the spinoff from Cardinal Health, or non-recurring tax items. While certain of these items may be recurring, Company management believes that these items and charges are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, or in the case of one-time spinoff related costs and non-recurring tax items, discrete and unusual or infrequent transactions that are not indicative of future operations, and that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
The limitation associated with using these non-GAAP financial measure is that these measures exclude items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using these non-GAAP financial measures in combination with "operating expenses", "operating income", "net income", "diluted earnings per share" and "segment profit" (the most comparable GAAP measures) because these non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measure.


