FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20091113163640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed, on August 31, 2009, Cardinal Health, Inc. ("Cardinal Health") completed the spinoff of CareFusion Corporation ("CareFusion" or the "Company") through a pro rata distribution to Cardinal Health shareholders of approximately 81% of the Company's outstanding common stock. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health retained certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the U.S. markets and that were historically managed by CareFusion prior to the spinoff, which were part of the clinical and medical products businesses of Cardinal Health.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, these businesses were reported in the Company's financial statements on an as-managed basis. In connection with the spinoff, effective as of August 31, 2009, these businesses have been reclassified by the Company as discontinued operations. In addition, as disclosed in CareFusion's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2009, the Company committed to a plan to dispose its Audiology business during the quarter ended September 30, 2009, and subsequently sold the business on October 1, 2009. As a result, this business has been reclassified by the Company as discontinued operations.
This current report on Form 8-K is filed in order to disclose the effect of these reclassifications on certain financial information included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 (the "Form 10-K"), namely Selected Historical Condensed Combined Financial Data (attached as Exhibit 99.1), Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (attached as Exhibit 99.2), the Combined Financial Statements and Notes thereto and Financial Statement Schedule - -Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (attached as Exhibit 99.3). This information should be read in conjunction with the portions of the Form 10-K that are not subject to the foregoing changes, as well as the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2009. In addition, the Company has provided supplemental financial information (attached as Exhibit 99.4) that reflects these reclassifications on the Company's quarterly financial information for each of the quarters in the year ended June 30, 2009.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 23
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-1 No. 333-160766 and Form S-8 Nos. 333-161611 and 333-161615) of CareFusion Corporation and in the related Prospectus of our report dated September 15, 2009 (except for Note 2, as to which the date is November 13, 2009) included in this Form 8-K.
San Diego, California
November 13, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
SELECTED HISTORICAL CONDENSED COMBINED FINANCIAL DATA
The following table presents selected historical condensed combined financial data for CareFusion Corporation (the "Company"). As set forth in the Form 8-K of which this Exhibit 99.1 forms a part (this "Form 8-K"), on August 31, 2009, Cardinal Health, Inc. ("Cardinal Health") completed the spinoff of the Company through a pro rata distribution to Cardinal Health shareholders of approximately 81% of the Company's outstanding common stock. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health retained certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the U.S. markets and that were historically managed by the Company prior to the spinoff, which were part of the clinical and medical products businesses of Cardinal Health. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, these businesses were reported in the Company's financial statements on an as-managed basis. In connection with the spinoff, effective as of August 31, 2009, these businesses have been reclassified by the Company as a discontinued operation. In addition, as disclosed in CareFusion's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2009, the Company committed to a plan to dispose its Audiology business during the quarter ended September 30, 2009, and subsequently sold the business on October 1, 2009. As a result, this business has been reclassified by the Company as a discontinued operation. The selected historical condensed combined financial data presented in the following table reflects the reclassification of these businesses as discontinued operations.
The condensed combined statement of income data for each of the three fiscal years in the three year period ending June 30, 2009 and the condensed combined balance sheet data as of June 30, 2009 and 2008 are derived from the Company's audited combined financial statements, which are included in Exhibit 99.3 to this Form 8-K. The condensed combined statement of income data for fiscal 2006 and the condensed combined balance sheet data for fiscal 2007 are derived from the Company's audited combined financial statements that are not included in this Form 8-K. The condensed combined balance sheet data for both fiscal 2006 and 2005 and the condensed combined statement of income data for fiscal 2005 are derived from the Company's unaudited combined financial statements that are not included in this Form 8-K. The unaudited combined financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited condensed combined financial statements and, in the opinion of the Company's management, include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the information set forth herein.
The selected historical condensed combined financial and other operating data presented below should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited combined financial statements and accompanying notes, which are included in Exhibit 99.3 to this Form 8-K, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which are included in Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K. The combined financial information may not be indicative of the Company's future performance and does not necessarily reflect what the Company's financial position and results of operations would have been had the Company operated as an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented, including changes that occurred in the Company's operations and capitalization as a result of the separation from Cardinal Health.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
As set forth in the Form 8-K of which this Exhibit 99.2 forms a part (this "Form 8-K"), on August 31, 2009, Cardinal Health, Inc. ("Cardinal Health") completed the spinoff of the Company through a pro rata distribution to Cardinal Health shareholders of approximately 81% of the Company's outstanding common stock. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health retained certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the U.S. markets and that were historically managed by the Company prior to the spinoff, which were part of the clinical and medical products businesses of Cardinal Health. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, these businesses were reported in the Company's financial statements on an as-managed basis. In connection with the spinoff, effective as of August 31, 2009, these businesses have been reclassified by the Company as a discontinued operation. In addition, as disclosed in CareFusion's Quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2009, the Company committed to a plan to dispose its Audiology business during the quarter ended September 30, 2009, and subsequently sold the business on October 1, 2009. As a result, this business has been reclassified by the Company as a discontinued operation. The discussion and analysis presented below reflect the reclassification of these businesses as discontinued operations. The discussion and analysis presented below refer to and should be read in conjunction with the audited combined financial statements and related notes included in Exhibit 99.3 to this Form 8-K (the "audited financial statements").
Unless the context otherwise requires, references to "CareFusion Corporation," "CareFusion," "we," "us," "our" and "our company" refer to CareFusion Corporation and its combined subsidiaries. References in this information statement to "Cardinal Health" or "parent" refers to Cardinal Health and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires.
Introduction
Management's discussion and analysis, which we refer to as "MD&A," of our results of operations and financial condition is provided as a supplement to the audited financial statements included in Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, to help provide an understanding of our financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of our operations.
MD&A is organized as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Separation from Cardinal Health, Inc.
On September 29, 2008, Cardinal Health announced that it intended to separate its clinical and medical products businesses from the remainder of its businesses through a pro rata distribution of the common stock of an entity holding the assets and liabilities associated with the clinical and medical products businesses. CareFusion Corporation was incorporated in Delaware on January 14, 2009 for the purpose of holding such businesses. We completed the spinoff from Cardinal Health on August 31, 2009. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health contributed the majority of the businesses comprising its clinical and medical products segment to us ("the contribution"), and distributed approximately 81% of our outstanding common stock, or approximately 179.8 million shares, to its shareholders ("the distribution"), based on a distribution ration of 0.5 shares of our common stock for each common share of Cardinal Health held on the record date of August 25, 2009. Cardinal Health retained approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock, or approximately 41.4 million shares, in connection with the spinoff. As a condition to the separation, Cardinal Health is required to dispose of the remaining 19% of our common stock within five years of the distribution date. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health retained certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and
 
fluid management products in the U.S. markets that were historically managed by us prior to the spinoff, which were part of the clinical and medical products businesses of Cardinal Health. These lines of businesses are reflected in the CareFusion financial information as discontinued operations.
In connection with the separation and other restructuring activities not related to the separation, we expect to incur one-time expenditures of between approximately $120 million to $130 million in fiscal 2010. These expenditures primarily consist of employee-related costs, costs to start up certain stand-alone functions and information technology systems and other one-time transaction related costs. Also included are approximately $21 million of capitalized fees associated with our bridge loan facility that were expensed in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 related to the termination of that agreement on August 31, 2009. We expect to fund these costs through cash from operations, cash on hand and, if necessary, cash available from our senior unsecured revolving credit facilities. A portion of these expenditures will be capitalized and amortized over their useful lives and others will be expensed as incurred, depending on their nature. Additionally, we will incur increased costs as an independent, publicly-traded company, primarily as a result of higher charges than in the past from Cardinal Health for transition services and from establishing or expanding the corporate support for our businesses, including information technology, human resources, treasury, tax, risk management, accounting and financial reporting, investor relations, legal, procurement and other services. In the first year following the separation, these annual operating costs are estimated to be approximately $25 million to $30 million higher than the general corporate expenses we reported historically as being allocated to us from Cardinal Health. We believe cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund these additional corporate expenses.
We do not anticipate that increased costs solely from becoming an independent, publicly-traded company will have an adverse effect on our growth rate in the future beyond fiscal 2010.
We believe that the separation will allow us to:
 
 
 
 
Overview
We are a global medical technology company with clinically proven and industry-leading products and services designed to measurably improve the safety and quality of healthcare. We offer comprehensive product lines in the areas of IV infusion, medication and supply dispensing, respiratory care, infection prevention and surgical instruments. Our offerings include established brands used in hospitals throughout the United States and in more than 120 countries worldwide. Our primary product brands include: Alaris, Pyxis, AVEA, Pulmonetic Systems, Jaeger, SensorMedics, ChloraPrep and V. Mueller.
Our primary customers in the United States include hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers, clinics, long-term care facilities and physician offices. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, we generated revenue of $3.6 billion and $3.7 billion respectively, and net income from continuing operations of $290 million for fiscal 2009 and $330 million for fiscal 2008. Approximately, 69% of our fiscal 2009 revenue was from customers in the United States and 31% was from customers outside of the United States. In fiscal 2009, we introduced 17 new or enhanced products, and our innovation pipeline includes numerous additional new or enhanced products that are expected to be launched over the next 18 months. Our strategy is to enhance growth by focusing on healthcare safety and productivity, driving innovation and clinical differentiation, accelerating our global growth and pursuing strategic opportunities.
Our business consists of two reporting segments: Critical Care Technologies and Medical Technologies and Services.
 
 
 
Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations
The Overall Global Economic Environment, Industry Growth and Trends
Healthcare-related industries are generally less susceptible than some other industries to fluctuations in the overall economic environment. However, some of our businesses rely on capital spending from our customers (primarily hospitals), which spending can be influenced by a variety of economic factors, including interest rates, access to financing and endowment fluctuations. Significant changes in these economic factors can affect the sales of our capital equipment products, such as infusion pumps, dispensing equipment and ventilators. Additionally, sales volumes for some of our businesses are dependent on hospital admissions. Changes in admissions due to difficult economic times can affect our results for surgical and single-use products, such as infusion and respiratory disposable sets, surgical instruments and infection prevention products. Since the beginning of fiscal 2009, we have observed certain hospitals delaying capital equipment purchase decisions, which had an adverse impact on our financial results for fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, and which we expect will have an adverse impact on our financial results through the middle of calendar year 2010. Moreover, while global healthcare expenditures are projected to grow over the coming years, reimbursement and funding for these expenditures is declining. These factors are creating both pressure and opportunity in the marketplace.
Primarily in response to the delay in hospital capital spending and the overall decline in the global economy, we implemented global workforce reduction in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, which will reduce our workforce by approximately 800 people over a six month period, and eliminate an additional 500 positions through normal attrition and by not filling open roles. In addition, we have implemented cost control measures and additional reductions in discretionary spending. We recorded a $19 million pre-tax restructuring charge for fiscal 2009 associated with these actions, and anticipate an additional $14 million pre-tax restructuring charge for fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2010 and beyond, we expect to see a benefit within our operating income due to reduced expenses as a result of these cost reduction initiatives.
In addition to the factors discussed above, we also anticipate that the current presidential administration, Congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. The uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation may, while such uncertainties remain unresolved, have an adverse effect on our customers' purchasing decisions regarding our products and services. At this time we cannot predict which, if any, healthcare reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they may have on us.
Innovation and New Products
Our business strategy relies significantly on innovation to develop and introduce new products and to differentiate our products from our competitors. Our investment expense in research and development increased $3 million from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2009. Looking forward, we expect our research and development expenditures to further increase at a higher rate as we make additional investments to support our growth strategies. We plan to increase our research and development expenditures with internal initiatives, as well as licensing or acquiring technology from third parties. Our internal and external investments will be focused on initiatives that we believe will offer the greatest opportunity for growth and profitability.
With a significant investment in research and development, a strong focus on innovation and a well-managed innovation process, we believe we can continue to innovate and grow. If, however, our future innovations are not successful in meeting customers' needs or prove to be too costly versus their perceived benefit, our growth may slow.
Competition
We operate in highly competitive markets. Our success depends on, among other things, establishing and maintaining strong customer relationships, brand recognition and technological and functional advantage for our products, particularly in our capital equipment businesses. If we fail to maintain a strong competitive position, then customers may choose not to buy our products or we may be forced to discount our products to maintain market share.
 
International and Foreign Exchange
We sell our products in more than 120 countries and manufacture our products in nine countries in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. Due to the global nature of our business, our revenue and expenses are influenced by foreign exchange movements. In fiscal 2009, approximately 26% of our sales were in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies will affect our reported results as we translate those currencies into U.S. dollars. The percentage of fiscal 2009 sales by major currencies was as follows:
 
Product Quality and Recalls
Product quality, particularly in life saving and sustaining technologies, plays a critical role in our success. A quality or safety issue may result in public warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, consent decrees, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant clearances or approvals or delays in granting such clearances or approvals, import detentions of products made outside the United States, restrictions on operations or withdrawal or suspension of existing approvals. Any of the foregoing events could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, recalls may negatively affect sales due to customer concerns about product quality.
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, our results were negatively affected by net charges for the cost of product recalls of $19 million, $18 million and $14 million, respectively. We are currently operating our infusion business under a consent decree from the FDA, which was entered into in fiscal 2007 to resolve seizure litigation over Alaris SE pumps and amended in fiscal 2009 to include all infusion pumps manufactured by or for our subsidiary that manufactures and sells infusion pumps in the United States. On April 24, 2009, we submitted the corrective action plan required by the amended consent decree to the FDA. Included in the corrective action plan was, among other proposed corrective actions, a software correction that addresses a potential risk identified with the Alaris PCA (Patient Controlled Analgesia) module when used with the Alaris PC Unit operating with software versions 8 through 9.1. When the products are used together, the Alaris PCA module may infuse above or below the intended infusion dose if a specific sequence of events occurs. We recorded a reserve of $18 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 for the Alaris System, based on our estimate of the costs that will be incurred in connection with the corrective action plan. On June 2, 2009, the FDA notified us that the corrective action plan was acceptable and that we should begin implementation of the plan. We had placed a hold on shipping the Alaris PCA module and related Alaris PC Unit pending 510(k) clearance from the FDA for the software correction. We received 510(k) clearance on July 9, 2009 and have since resumed shipments.
In response to infusion product recalls and the consent decree, we have made substantial investments in quality systems and quality personnel headcount over the past several years. While we believe that we have made significant improvements to our product quality and overall quality systems, further quality concerns, whether real or perceived, could adversely affect our results. Conversely, improving quality can be a competitive advantage and improve our results.
Income Taxes
Our operations have historically been included in Cardinal Health's U.S. federal and state tax returns or non-U.S. jurisdictions tax returns. Prior to the separation, we and Cardinal Health entered into a tax matters agreement that governs the parties' respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to taxes.
Cardinal Health files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various U.S. state jurisdictions and various foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, Cardinal Health is subject to audit by taxing authorities for fiscal years ended June 30, 2001 through the current fiscal year end. The IRS currently has ongoing audits of fiscal years 2001 through 2007. During the quarter ended September 30, 2008, Cardinal Health received an IRS Revenue Agent's Report for the tax years 2003 through 2005 that included Notices of Proposed Adjustment related to transfer pricing arrangements between foreign and domestic subsidiaries and the transfer of intellectual property among our subsidiaries. The amount of additional tax proposed by the IRS in these notices totals $462 million, excluding penalties and interest, which may be significant. We and Cardinal Health disagree with the IRS regarding its application of the U.S. Treasury regulations to the arrangements under review and the valuations underlying such adjustments and intend to vigorously contest them. We believe that we have provided adequate contingent tax reserves for these matters under FIN No. 48. The tax matters agreement specifies that this matter, including the control of audit proceedings and payment of any additional liability, is our responsibility.
 
The Company's provisions for income taxes as a percentage of pretax earnings from continuing operations ("effective tax rates") were 15.5%, 24.8% and 15.6% of pretax earnings in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Generally, fluctuations in the effective tax rate are due to changes within international and U.S. state effective tax rates resulting from the Company's business mix and the impact of restructuring and acquisition integration charges and other discrete items, which may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item. The Company's effective tax rate reflects tax benefits derived from operations outside the United States, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35%.
Acquisitions
Acquisitions have historically played a significant role in our growth. Significant acquisitions made in the last five years include VIASYS Healthcare Inc., or Viasys, and the assets of Enturia, Inc., or Enturia. While we believe that the integration of these acquisitions has generally been successful, our failure to complete or integrate future acquisitions successfully might negatively affect our results. For further information regarding acquisitions, see "Combined Results of Operations" below and note 2 to the audited combined financial statements.
Principles of Combination and Basis of Presentation
Our combined financial statements presented within Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , and discussed below, have been prepared on a stand-alone basis and are derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Cardinal Health. The combined financial statements reflect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows as we were historically managed, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. Included within our combined financial statements are the results of certain businesses which have historically been managed by us but that were retained by Cardinal Health in the spinoff and are presented as discontinued operations. In addition, as disclosed in CareFusion's Quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2009, the Company committed to a plan to dispose its Audiology business during the quarter ended September 30, 2009, and subsequently sold the business on October 1, 2009, and therefore is presented as a discontinued operation. Our fiscal year ends on June 30. All significant intra-company transactions and accounts have been eliminated.
All significant intercompany transactions between us and Cardinal Health have been included in these combined financial statements and are considered to be effectively settled for cash in the combined financial statements at the time the transaction is recorded. The total net effect of the settlement of these intercompany transactions is reflected in the combined statements of cash flow as a financing activity and in the combined balance sheets as "Parent Company Investment."
Our combined financial statements include expenses of Cardinal Health allocated to us for certain functions provided by Cardinal Health, including, but not limited to, general corporate expenses related to finance, legal, information technology, human resources, communications, ethics and compliance, shared services, employee benefits and incentives, insurance and stock-based compensation. For fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, Cardinal Health allocated to us general corporate expenses of $406 million, $407 million and $428 million, respectively. Included within the $406 million, $407 million and $428 million of SG&A expenses allocated to us from Cardinal Health for the years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are $21 million, $23 million and $23 million allocable to discontinued operations. These expenses have been allocated to us on the basis of direct usage when identifiable, with the remainder allocated on the basis of revenue, headcount or other measures. Both we and Cardinal Health consider the basis on which the expenses have been allocated to be a reasonable reflection of the services provided to or the benefit received by us during the periods presented. The allocations may not, however, reflect the expense we would have incurred as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented. Actual costs that may have been incurred if we had been a stand-alone company would depend on a number of factors, including the chosen organizational structure, what functions were outsourced or performed by employees, and strategic decisions made in areas such as information technology and infrastructure. Following the separation, we will perform these functions using our own resources or purchased services. For an interim period, however, some of these functions will continue to be provided by Cardinal Health under the transition services agreement. In addition to the transition services agreement, we entered into a number of commercial agreements with Cardinal Health in connection with the separation, many of which have terms longer than one year.
Cardinal Health uses a centralized approach to U.S. domestic cash management and financing of its operations, excluding debt directly incurred by any of its businesses, such as debt assumed in an acquisition or certain capital lease obligations. The majority of our domestic cash was transferred to Cardinal Health daily and Cardinal Health funded our operating and investing activities as needed. A portion of Cardinal Health's consolidated debt has been allocated to us based on the debt levels consistent with an investment grade credit rating, including amounts directly incurred. Cardinal Health's historical long-term debt balances were
 
allocated to us based on a debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, leverage ratio, which, based on discussions with external advisors and comparisons with BBB-rated companies in the S&P 500, is consistent with an investment grade credit rating. This allocation methodology is also generally consistent with management's long-term capital structure plans for CareFusion as a separate, stand-alone company. In contrast, short-term debt balances (e.g., commercial paper, bank loans) held at the corporate level were not allocated down to CareFusion as this debt was issued to fund the operations of the Cardinal Health healthcare supply chain services businesses. As both CareFusion and Cardinal Health have established post-spin capital structures that support investment grade credit ratings, we believe that utilizing financial metric targets to allocate historical third-party debt is reasonable and appropriate. Cardinal Health debt allocated as of June 30, 2009 and 2008 was $1,281 million and $1,597 million, respectively. Net interest expense has been allocated in the same proportions as debt and includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges. For fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, Cardinal Health has allocated to us net interest expense of $80 million, $88 million and $72 million, respectively. Cash transfers to and from Cardinal Health's U.S. domestic cash management accounts are reflected in "Parent Company Investment" in the combined balance sheets.
We believe that the allocation basis for debt and net interest expense is reasonable based on the debt levels consistent with maintaining an investment grade credit rating for us. However, these amounts may not be indicative of the actual amounts that we would have incurred had we been operating as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented.
The combined financial statements also include the push down of certain assets and liabilities that have historically been held at the Cardinal Health corporate level but which are specifically identifiable or otherwise allocable to us. The cash and cash equivalents held by Cardinal Health at the corporate level were not allocated to us for any of the periods presented. Cash and equivalents in our combined balance sheets primarily represent cash held locally by international entities included in our combined financial statements. Transfers of cash to and from Cardinal Health's domestic cash management system are reflected as a component of Parent Company Investment on the combined balance sheets. Cardinal Health maintains self-insurance programs at a corporate level. We were allocated a portion of expenses associated with these programs as part of the general corporate overhead expenses. We were not allocated any portion of the related reserves as these reserves represent obligations of Cardinal Health which are not transferable.
See note 1 to the audited combined financial statements for additional detail regarding the push down of assets and liabilities, including certain prepaid expenses, property and equipment and employee compensation liabilities.
Our combined financial statements may not be indicative of our future performance and do not necessarily reflect what the results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we operated as an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented.
See note 15 to the audited combined financial statements for further description of the transactions between Cardinal Health and us.
Combined Results of Operations
The following table presents, for the periods indicated, selected items from our combined financial statements:
 
 
Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2009 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2008
Below is a summary of comparative results of operations and a more detailed discussion of results for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
Revenue
Total revenue decreased by $68 million to $3,595 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. The revenue decline resulted from lower sales volume in our capital equipment businesses ($149 million), as a result of the deferral of capital spending by hospitals and a ship hold on our Alaris infusion devices. Hospitals delayed their capital spending during fiscal 2009 due to the decline in the overall global economic environment, which we believe created uncertainty in regards to access to capital markets and reduced the size of hospital endowments that are utilized to provide funding for capital equipment products. For several months of fiscal 2009, we also placed a hold on shipping the Alaris PCA module and related Alaris PC Unit while we sought FDA clearance for a software correction under the corrective action plan, which we receive in July 2009. As a result of these items, the volume of our capital equipment sales decreased, and overall capital goods products revenues decreased ($149 million). Additionally, revenue declined due to unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates ($99 million). Sales transactions denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar comprised approximately 26% of our total revenue in fiscal year 2009, of which the majority is denominated in euros and British pounds. On average during fiscal year 2009, the United States dollar strengthened relative to the euro and British pound by approximately 7% and 26%, respectively.
The aforementioned revenue declines were partially offset by revenue increases associated with acquisitions ($170 million), primarily due to our acquisition of Enturia in fiscal year 2008; international growth, exclusive of effects of foreign exchange ($23 million); and new products ($21 million).
Segment revenue is shown in the table below:
 
Critical Care Technologies segment revenue decreased $174 million, or 7%, to $2,429 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. This decrease was due primarily to lower sales volume of capital equipment due to delays in hospital capital spending and the Alaris infusion device ship hold discussed above ($149 million) and the negative effect of changes in foreign exchange rates ($59 million), partially offset by increases in revenues associated with new products, largely due to new respiratory ventilator equipment products ($20 million).
Medical Technologies and Services segment revenue increased $106 million, or 10%, to $1,166 million, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. The revenue increase was primarily due to acquisitions (approximately $170 million); international revenue growth, excluding effects of foreign exchange rates ($31 million). These increases were partially offset by the negative effect of changes in foreign exchange rates ($40 million), and a decline in diagnostic capital equipment ($18 million) and instrument revenues ($11 million).
 
Cost of Products Sold
Cost of products sold decreased $32 million, or 2%, to $1,864 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. As a percentage of revenue, cost of products sold totaled 52% in both fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2008.
The decrease in cost of products sold was due to the decrease in sales volume of capital equipment and benefits associated with changes in foreign exchange rates; partially offset by the costs associated with incremental revenues from acquisitions, primarily Enturia, and increases in international sales volume.
Gross Margin
For the foregoing reasons, gross margin decreased $36 million, or 2%, to $1,731 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 48% in both fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2008.
During fiscal year 2009, gross margin was affected by a variety of offsetting factors, including: international pricing pressure; the effects of foreign exchange, in which the benefits of changes in foreign exchange rates associated with our procurement transactions were more than outweighed by unfavorable impacts associated with sales transactions; the adverse effects of the under-utilization of our capital equipment manufacturing facilities; and increased sales volumes in certain of our infection prevention and skin preparation businesses and a shift in sales mix favoring disposable products within our Critical Care Technologies segment due to the decline in sales volume of capital equipment. Our infection prevention, skin preparation, and disposable products each recognize higher margins than our other product offerings.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative, or SG&A, expenses increased $28 million, or 3%, to $1,055 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. SG&A expenses increased primarily due to acquisitions ($50 million), additional investments in product quality processes ($11 million), and additional provisions for bad debts ($4 million). These increases were partially offset by a decrease due to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates ($25 million) and a decrease in management incentive compensation expense ($19 million).
SG&A expenses allocated by Cardinal Health to us during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 were $406 million and $407 million, respectively. Included within the $406 million and $407 million of SG&A expenses allocated to us from Cardinal Health for the years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 are $21 million and $23 million associated with discontinued operations. Allocated SG&A expenses include expenses for shared functions, including management, finance, financial shared services, human resources, information technology, legal, legislative affairs and management incentive plan expenses. SG&A expenses historically allocated to us are not likely to be indicative of the actual amounts that we would have incurred had we been operating as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented or for future periods following our separation from Cardinal Health.
Research and Development
Research and development expenses increased $3 million, or 2%, to $160 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year.
Restructuring and Acquisition Integration Charges
Restructuring and acquisition integration charges increased $37 million, or 106%, to $72 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. Restructuring and acquisition integration charges incurred in fiscal 2009 were primarily comprised of integration expenses associated with Viasys ($9 million); employee-related restructuring costs ($40 million); and facility exit costs ($20 million). In the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, we announced a cost reduction initiative primarily in response to the delay in hospital capital spending and the overall decline in the global economy. Under this initiative, we will reduce our global workforce by approximately 800 people, and eliminate an additional 500 positions through normal attrition and by not filling open roles. In fiscal year 2009, we recorded a $19 million pre-tax restructuring charge associated with this cost reduction initiative, included within employee-related restructuring costs identified above, and expect to record an additional $14 million pre-tax restructuring charge in fiscal year 2010.
 
Restructuring and acquisition integration charges incurred in fiscal 2008 were primarily comprised of integration costs associated with our acquisition of Viasys and restructuring costs related to the closure of a replenishment center, headcount reductions within existing operations and other facility exit costs.
Acquired In-process Research and Development
In connection with our acquisition of certain businesses in fiscal year 2008, we obtained in-process research and development projects, or IPR&D. At the time of acquisition, these projects had not yet achieved technological feasibility and were deemed to have no alternative use and, accordingly, the estimated fair value of the IPR&D was expensed at the acquisition date. During fiscal 2008, we recorded charges to write off our preliminary estimates of fair values of the IPR&D associated with the Enturia acquisition ($18 million), other minor acquisitions ($25 million), and adjusted downward the IPR&D charges initially recorded in fiscal year 2007 associated with the Viasys acquisition based on the final valuation of its related IPR&D in fiscal 2008 ($25 million).
Operating Income
For the foregoing reasons, operating income decreased $86 million, or 16%, to $444 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. Operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased to 12% in fiscal 2009 compared to 14% in the prior fiscal year.
Segment profit from our two reporting segments, Critical Care Technologies and Medical Technologies and Services, is shown in the table below:
 
Critical Care Technologies segment profit decreased $109 million, or 21%, to $402 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease in segment profit was primarily a result of a lower sales volume of capital equipment due to the delay in hospital capital spending and the Alaris infusion device ship hold ($85 million) and unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates ($22 million). Segment profit as a percentage of segment revenue was 17% and 20% in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively.
Medical Technologies and Services segment profit increased $42 million, or 58%, to $114 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in segment profit was primarily due to the profitability of prior year acquisitions ($51 million); partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates ($11 million). Segment profit as a percentage of segment revenue was 10% and 7% in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively.
Interest Expense and Other
Interest expense and other, net increased $14 million, or 16%, to $101 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in interest expense and other, net was primarily the result of increases in losses due to changes in foreign exchange rates ($32 million), partially offset by a reduction in interest expense allocated to us by Cardinal Health ($8 million).
Interest expense allocated to us by Cardinal Health totaled $80 million and $88 million in fiscal year 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in allocated interest expense was primarily due to lower levels of debt allocated to us by Cardinal Health. See note 10 to the audited combined financial statements for further information.
Provision for Income Taxes
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, our provision for income taxes decreased $57 million, or 52%, to $53 million, compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease in income tax expense was due to a reduction in income before income taxes, a decrease related to a claim filed with the IRS to amend our position relative to sales type lease transactions ($24 million), and a decrease for the revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to account for the impact of internal reorganizations ($21 million). These
 
decreases in tax are partially offset by an unfavorable tax adjustment for accrued interest related to proposed tax assessments ($9 million), and the impact of nondeductible IPR&D charges in fiscal 2008 ($9 million). As a result of this activity, our effective tax rate decreased to 15.5% in fiscal year 2009 from 24.8% in fiscal year 2008.
During the third quarter of 2009, Cardinal Health filed a claim with the IRS to amend the filing position taken on its U.S. federal income tax return for fiscal years 2004 through 2006 related to a secured loan transaction involving certain of our sales-type lease receivables. Since our income taxes are presented on a separate return basis, we recognized a $24 million net tax benefit in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 related to this item.
For additional detail regarding the provision for income taxes, see note 11 to our audited combined financial statements.
Income from Continuing Operations
For the foregoing reasons, income from continuing operations decreased $43 million, or 13%, to $290 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. Income from continuing operations as a percentage of revenue was 8% and 9% in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively.
Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Expense
Income from discontinued operations, net of tax expense decreased $52 million, or 16% to $278 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease was attributable to a gross margin decline ($28 million) due to a shift in product mix towards lower margin products and increases in cost of petroleum based raw materials and the net affect of increased SG&A expenses ($23 million); a gain on the sale of a business unit in fiscal 2008 ($11 million); and an increase in tax expense ($24 million). These decreases were partially offset by an increase in royalty income ($44 million).
Net Income
For the foregoing reasons, net income decreased $95 million, or 14%, to $568 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year.
 
Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2008 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2007
Below is a summary of comparative results of operations and a more detailed discussion of results for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007:
 
Revenue
Revenue increased $1,004 million, or 38%, to $3,663 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. Revenue growth was favorably affected by acquisitions ($605 million); increased sales volume to existing customers ($160 million); international revenue growth ($121 million), which included the positive effect of foreign exchange rates ($85 million); and new products ($80 million).
Segment revenue is shown in the table below:
 
Critical Care Technologies segment revenue increased $698 million, or 37%, to $2,603 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. This increase was due primarily to acquisitions ($420 million), primarily related to increased sales of respiratory equipment from the Viasys acquisition; increased sales to existing customers ($115 million), largely related to medication dispensing equipment; increased revenue from new products ($73 million) and new customers ($33 million), largely related to new infusion product releases and successful competitive infusion product placements; the favorable effect of changes in foreign exchange rates ($33 million); and financing interest on sales-type leases ($14 million).
Medical Technologies and Services segment revenue increased $306 million, or 41%, to $1,060 million, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. Revenues increased primarily due to acquisitions ($185 million), primarily related to increased sales of neurological diagnostic equipment from the Viasys acquisition and infection prevention products from the Enturia acquisition. Revenue also increased from sales to existing customers ($45 million), and an increase in international revenue ($92 million), primarily across Europe, which included the favorable effect of changes in foreign exchange rates ($53 million).
Cost of Products Sold
Cost of products sold increased $533 million, or 36%, to $1,896 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. Cost of products sold increased primarily due to acquisitions ($322 million), primarily related to the Viasys acquisition; the aforementioned increases in sales to existing customers and new products; and the unfavorable effect of changes in foreign exchange rates ($48 million). In addition, our Critical Care Technologies segment experienced increased costs associated with infusion product recalls ($4 million).
 
Gross Margin
For the foregoing reasons, gross margin increased $471 million, or 36%, to $1,767 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 48% and 49% in fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2007, respectively.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
SG&A expenses increased $200 million, or 24%, to $1,027 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in SG&A expense was primarily due to acquisitions ($190 million); the unfavorable effect of changes in foreign exchange rates ($20 million); and increased variable costs associated with our revenue growth, partially offset by decreases in equity-based and other variable compensation ($19 million); and a decrease in SG&A expenses allocated to us by Cardinal Health ($21 million). SG&A expenses allocated by Cardinal Health to us during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 were $407 million and $428 million, respectively. The $407 million and $428 million of SG&A expenses allocated to us from Cardinal Health for the years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 each include $23 million associated with discontinued operations.
Research and Development
R&D expenses increased $56 million, or 55%, to $157 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. This increase was due to acquisitions ($40 million), primarily the Viasys acquisition, and increased spending on innovation ($9 million).
Restructuring and Acquisition Integration Charges
Restructuring and acquisition integration charges increased $13 million or 59% to $35 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase was due to increased acquisition integration charges ($16 million) partially offsetting a reduction in restructuring charges ($3 million).
The acquisition integration charges incurred during fiscal 2008 were primarily a result of the acquisition of Viasys ($24 million). The acquisition integration charges incurred during fiscal 2007 were primarily a result of the acquisition of Viasys ($8 million).
Restructuring charges incurred during fiscal 2008 related to the closure of a replenishment center, headcount reductions within existing operations and other facility exit costs. The restructuring costs incurred for fiscal 2007 related to facility closures, a global restructuring program initiated in fiscal 2005 and projects aimed at improvements in manufacturing cost and efficiency.
See note 4 to the audited combined financial statements for additional detail regarding these restructuring and acquisition integration charges.
Acquired In-process Research and Development
In connection with our acquisition of certain businesses in fiscal years 2008 and 2007, we obtained in-process research and development projects, or IPR&D. At the time of acquisition, these projects had not yet reached technological feasibility and were deemed to have no alternative use and, accordingly, the estimated fair value of the IPR&D was expensed at the acquisition date. These projects primarily related to the following areas:
 
 
 
IPR&D decreased $67 million to $18 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year.
During fiscal 2008, we recorded charges to write off our preliminary estimates of fair values of the IPR&D associated with the Enturia acquisition ($18 million) and other acquisitions ($25 million). During fiscal 2008, we finalized the valuation of the IPR&D associated with the Viasys acquisition and recorded an adjustment ($25 million) to reduce the cumulative IPR&D charge associated with the Viasys acquisition to $59 million.
 
During fiscal 2007, we recorded a charge to write off our preliminary estimate of the fair value of the IPR&D associated with the Viasys acquisition ($84 million).
The fair value of the IPR&D was determined using the discounted cash flow method. The discounted cash flow was determined based upon projected revenue, expenses and contributory assets related to the specific project and a discount rate based upon the overall weighted average cost of capital for the asset and the additional risk related to the uncertainty of the project. We also assessed the current status of development, nature and timing of efforts to complete such development, uncertainties, and other factors when estimating the fair value. Costs were not assigned to IPR&D unless future development was probable.
At the time of acquisition, the in-process projects were at various stages of completion with some requiring several years to reach commercialization. The estimated cost to complete the projects at the date of the acquisitions was $33 million. The majority of the technology has not yet come to fruition as it is still in process; however, completion is expected for all projects by the end of calendar year 2011. See note 3 to the audited combined financial statements for additional detail regarding acquired IPR&D.
Operating Income
For the foregoing reasons, operating income increased $269 million, or 103%, to $530 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. Operating income as a percentage of revenue increased to 14% in fiscal year 2008 as compared to 10% compared in fiscal year 2007.
Segment profit from our two reporting segments, Critical Care Technologies and Medical Technologies and Services, is shown in the table below:
 
Critical Care Technologies segment profit increased $166 million, or 48%, to $511 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in segment profit was primarily a result of the profitability associated with acquisitions ($38 million); favorable changes in foreign exchange rates ($16 million); and the remainder due primarily to earnings associated with non-acquisition related revenue growth. Segment profit as a percentage of revenue was 20% and 18% in fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2007, respectively.
Medical Technologies and Services segment profit increased $49 million, or 213%, to $72 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in segment profit was primarily a result of profitability associated with acquisitions ($15 million) and the earnings associated with the increases in international sales and favorable changes in foreign exchange rates ($13 million). Segment profit as a percentage of revenue was 7% and 3% in fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2007, respectively.
Interest Expense and Other
Interest expense and other increased $25 million, or 40%, to $87 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to an increase in interest expense ($14 million) primarily resulting from increased levels of debt allocated to us by Cardinal Health. For fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, interest expense allocated to us by Cardinal Health was $88 million and $72 million, respectively.
Provision for Income Taxes
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, our provision for income taxes increased $79 million, or 255%, to $110 million, compared to the prior fiscal year.
The effective tax rate for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 was 24.8% compared to 15.6% for the prior fiscal year. The increase in income tax expense and the effective tax rate was due to an increase in domestic income which is taxed at higher rates than foreign
 
income and a revaluation of state deferred tax assets and liabilities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 ($19 million). These increases were partially offset by the effect of a one time permanent difference during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 for non-deductible IPR&D associated with the Viasys acquisition ($40 million).
Income from Continuing Operations
For the foregoing reasons, income from continuing operations increased $165 million, or 98%, to $333 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. Income from continuing operations as a percentage of revenue was 9% and 6% in fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2007, respectively.
Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Expense
Income from discontinued operations, net of tax expense decreased $4 million, or 1%, to $330 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. Income from discontinued operations, net of tax decreased primarily as a result of an increase in SG&A expense ($15 million) and a decrease in royalty income earned from Cardinal Health ($19 million); partially offset a gain on the sale of a business unit ($11 million).
Net Income
For the foregoing reasons, net income increased $161 million, or 32%, to $663 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Overview
Historically, we have generated, and expect to continue to generate, positive cash flow from operations. Cash flow from operations primarily represents inflows from net income (adjusted for depreciation and other non-cash items) and outflows from investment in sales-type leases entered into, as we sell and install dispensing equipment, and other increases in working capital needed to grow the business. Cash flows from investing activities represent our investment in intellectual property and capital equipment required to grow, as well as acquisitions. Cash flows from financing activities are primarily changes in Cardinal Health's investment in us. In the past, Cardinal Health would fund our operating and investing activities as needed and transfer our excess cash at its discretion. Transfers of cash both to and from Cardinal Health's cash management system are reflected as a component of "Parent Company Investment" within "Parent Company Equity" in the combined balance sheets.
As a result of our separation from Cardinal Health, our capital structure, long-term capital commitments and sources of liquidity have changed significantly from our historical capital structure as described herein. In addition, we will no longer receive cash from Cardinal Health to fund our operating or investing needs. Instead, our ability to fund our capital needs will depend on our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations, overall capacity and terms of financing arrangements, and access to the capital markets. We believe that our future cash from operations together with our access to funds available under our senior unsecured revolving credit facilities and the capital markets will provide adequate resources to fund both short-term and long-term operating requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions and new business development activities.
Sources and Uses of Cash
The following table summarizes our statements of cash flows for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008, and 2007:
 
Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $46 million to $515 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in net income, after adjustments for non-cash items ($163 million)
 
and a reduction in cash flows related to other accrued liabilities and operation items ($86 million); partially offset by increased cash flows from collections of accounts receivable ($96 million) and sales-type capital leases ($88 million). Net cash used in investing activities decreased $655 million to $133 million compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily related to the cash purchase price of Enturia in fiscal 2008 ($476 million) and reductions in capital expenditures ($71 million). The net cash used in financing for both years was primarily the result of net cash transfers to and from Cardinal Health.
Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2008 and June 30, 2007
Net cash provided by operating activities increased $432 million to $561 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, compared to the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily due to the increase in net income, after adjustments for non-cash items ($227 million); increased cash inflows associated with trade receivables and inventories ($71 million); and increased cash flows associated with other accrued liabilities and operating items ($139 million). Net cash used in investing activities decreased $925 million to $788 million compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily related to differences in purchase price for Enturia in fiscal 2008 compared to Viasys in fiscal 2007 and additional capital expenditures. The net cash used in financing for both years was primarily the result of net cash transfers to and from Cardinal Health.
Capital Resources
Cardinal Health uses a centralized approach to U.S. domestic cash management and financing of its operations, excluding debt directly incurred by any of its businesses, such as debt assumed in an acquisition or certain capital lease obligations. Prior to the separation, the majority of our domestic cash was transferred to Cardinal Health daily, and Cardinal Health funded our operating and investing activities as needed. Accordingly, a portion of Cardinal Health's consolidated debt has been allocated to us based on our debt capacity consistent with an investment grade credit rating, including amounts directly incurred. Cardinal Health's historical long-term debt balances were allocated to us based on a debt to EBITDA leverage ratio, which, based on discussions with external advisors and comparisons with BBB-rated companies in the S&P 500, is consistent with an investment grade credit rating. This allocation methodology is also generally consistent with management's long-term capital structure plans for CareFusion as a separate, stand-alone company. In contrast, short-term debt balances (e.g., commercial paper, bank loans) held at the corporate level were not allocated down to CareFusion as this debt was issued to fund the operations of the Cardinal Health healthcare supply chain services businesses. As both CareFusion and Cardinal Health have established post-spin capital structures that support investment grade credit ratings, we believe that utilizing financial metric targets to allocate historical third-party debt is reasonable and appropriate. Total debt at June 30, 2009 was $1,289 million, of which $1,281 million was due to Cardinal Health. Total debt at June 30, 2008 was $1,609 million, of which $1,597 million was due to Cardinal Health. We believe that the allocation basis for debt is reasonable based on our debt capacity consistent with an investment grade credit rating. However, these amounts may not be indicative of the actual amounts that we would have incurred had we been operating as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented.
Our cash and equivalents balance as of June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008, included $609 million and $459 million of cash, respectively, held by our subsidiaries outside of the United States. Although the vast majority of cash held outside the United States is available for repatriation, doing so on more than a temporary basis could subject it to U.S. federal, state and local income tax.
In connection with the separation, On July 1, 2009, we entered into a senior unsecured bridge loan facility (the "bridge loan facility") to provide financing for an aggregate principal amount of $1.4 billion, with a term of 364 days from the date of any funding, for payment of the distribution to Cardinal Health as part of our spinoff. As the senior unsecured note offering (see below) was successfully completed prior to the separation, those proceeds were used to finance the payment of the distribution to Cardinal Health in lieu of drawing the bridge loan facility. As a result, the bridge loan facility was terminated on August 31, 2009.
Bridge Loan Facility.
On July 1, 2009, we also entered into two senior unsecured revolving credit facilities with an aggregate principal amount of $720 million, with commitments thereunder allocated as follows:
Revolving Credit Facilities.
 
 
The commitments under the three-year revolving credit facility are subject to increase, upon our request and consent by the lenders, by up to an aggregate of $30 million, subject to certain conditions and commitments. Borrowings under the three-year revolving credit facility bear interest at a floating rate per annum based upon the London interbank offered rate for dollars ("LIBOR") or the alternate base rate ("ABR"), in each case, plus an applicable margin, which in the case of LIBOR varies from 2.1% to 3.375% depending on CareFusion's debt ratings and in the case of ABR varies from 1.1% to 2.375% depending on CareFusion's debt ratings. Borrowings under the 364-day revolving credit facility bear interest at a floating rate per annum based upon LIBOR or ABR, in each case, plus an applicable margin, which in the case of LIBOR varies from 2.2% to 3.5% based upon CareFusion's debt ratings and in the case of ABR varies from 1.2% to 2.5% based upon CareFusion's debt ratings. All obligations under the revolving credit facilities will continue to be guaranteed by each of our existing and future direct and indirect material domestic subsidiaries.
 
The revolving credit facilities contain several customary covenants including, but not limited to, limitations on liens, subsidiary indebtedness, investments, dispositions, restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, and sale and lease-back transactions. The revolving credit facilities also contain financial covenants requiring CareFusion to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of no more than 3.00:1.00 at any time during any period of four fiscal quarters, and a consolidated interest coverage ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of at least (i) 3.25:1.00 for the fiscal quarters ended on September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009, (ii) 3.50:1.00 for the fiscal quarter ended on March 31, 2010, and (iii) 3.75:1.00 for the fiscal quarter ended on June 30, 2010 and thereafter. The revolving credit facilities are subject to customary events of default, including, but not limited to, non-payment of principal or other amounts when due, breach of covenants, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, cross-default to other material indebtedness, certain ERISA-related events, certain voluntary and involuntary bankruptcy events, and change of control.
We currently do not anticipate utilizing our revolving credit facilities for current operations as we believe that our anticipated cash flows will be sufficient. However, based on operating needs, strategic planning and other factors, we may utilize the revolving credit facilities in the future.
On July 14, 2009, we offered and sold $1.4 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes. The notes consist of the following tranches:
Senior Unsecured Notes.
 
 
 
The net proceeds of the offering were placed into an escrow account and were subsequently used to finance the distribution payment to Cardinal Health of approximately $1.4 billion related to our spinoff. The 2012 notes will mature on August 1, 2012, the 2014 notes will mature on August 1, 2014 and the 2019 notes will mature on August 1, 2019. In each case, interest will be paid on each February 1 and August 1, commencing February 1, 2010.
The indenture for the senior notes limits our ability to incur certain secured debt and enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions. In accordance with the indenture, we may redeem the senior notes prior to maturity, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the senior notes to be redeemed or the sum of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest in respect of the senior notes to be redeemed (not including any portion of the payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption) discounted to its present value, on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at an adjusted treasury rate plus 45 basis points in the case of the 2012 notes, 45 basis points in the case of the 2014 notes and 50 basis points in the case of the 2019 notes, plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the amount being redeemed to the date of redemption. In addition, if we undergo a change of control and experience a below investment grade rating event, each as defined in the senior notes, we may be required to repurchase all of the senior notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the senior notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the senior notes repurchased to the date of repurchase.
Dividends
We currently intend to retain any income to finance research and development, acquisitions and the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration and payment of any dividends in the future by us will be subject to the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, income, capital requirements of our operating subsidiaries, covenants associated with certain of our debt obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Moreover, if we determine to pay any dividend in the future, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay such dividends.
 
Contractual Obligations
As of June 30, 2009, our contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows:
 
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
See note 19 to the audited combined financial statements for a discussion of off-balance sheet arrangements.
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates
Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our combined financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these combined financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that can have a significant effect on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations, and require use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience, trends, and management's judgment. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis and believe our estimates to be reasonable. Other companies applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing our combined financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see note 1 to our audited combined financial statements.
Revenue Recognition
We generate revenue through the sale and lease of equipment, software, services, medical products, supplies, and the income associated with the financing of our equipment leases. In accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, No. 104, ("SAB No. 104"), we recognize revenue when each of the following criteria exists:
Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends on a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our obligations. Determination of the appropriate amount of revenue recognized may involve subjective or complex judgments and estimates that we believe are reasonable, but actual results may differ from our estimates. The significant judgments and uncertainties that are sufficiently sensitive and could result in material differences under other assumptions and conditions are those described below.
Evaluation of the Significance of Embedded Software
We sell and lease products with embedded software. We regularly review these products to determine whether embedded software is more than incidental to the product as a whole. If the embedded software is more than incidental to the product as a whole, the product is classified as a software product and revenue for the product is recognized in accordance with the provisions of American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position, or SOP, No. 97-2, ("SOP No. 97-2").
Software Revenue Recognition
In classifying our products, we consider the following characteristics to be indicators that embedded software is more than incidental to the product as whole:
 
 
 
The evaluation process is often complex and subject to significant judgment as the products exhibit varying degrees of the indicators identified above, such as:
 
 
 
 
 
We classify our infusion products, when sold with safety software, and patient identification products as software. We have determined the embedded software within our other products, primarily our dispensing and respiratory products, is incidental to the products as a whole. Those products are therefore not classified as software.
Product development trends indicate that embedded software, connectivity and interfacing with hospital information systems will continue to be components of, and possibly significant features of, future product releases. In the future, the embedded software inherent to these future products may be determined to be more than incidental to the product and as a result the product may be classified as software for revenue recognition purposes. If these future software products are sold with extended payment terms or subject to long-term leases, the timing of revenue recognition for these products could change significantly as compared to similar transactions with hardware products. Specifically, we may be unable to determine the associated payments are fixed or determinable and, as a result, we may be precluded from recognizing revenue upon the completion of installation services as we would for a hardware product. Instead, we may be required to recognize revenue on these software products over time as payments become due from the customer.
Revenue Recognition for Leases
Our accounting for leases involves specific determinations under applicable lease accounting standards, which often involve complex and prescriptive provisions. If a lease qualifies as a sales-type capital lease, equipment revenue is recognized upon delivery or installation of the equipment as opposed to ratably over the lease term. Therefore, our lease classification procedures significantly affect the timing of revenue recognition. The critical element considered by us in determining the classification of our lease transactions is the fair value of the leased equipment, including its estimated fair value at the inception and conclusion of the lease. For the purposes of determining the fair value of leased equipment at the inception of the lease, we apply the percentage discount from rental list prices provided within the lease transaction against the purchase list price. This methodology assumes that purchase customers are provided similar discounts as lease customers. Periodically, we review discount levels provided to purchase customers and lease customers to validate this assumption.
Multiple Element Arrangements
The majority of our transactions qualify as multiple element arrangements. We use the relative fair value method to allocate contract proceeds to each unit of accounting, which are then individually recognized to revenue. To the extent that fair value evidence does not exist for delivered elements of the transaction, we apply the residual method.
Determination as to whether fair value exists and the valuation of our fair value estimates are critical to both the relative fair value method and residual method. The determination of fair value estimates associated with our products and services is generally based on historical evidence of sales of the same product in stand alone transactions and the contract renewal prices for post-contract support and separately priced extended warranty services.
For software and software related products, evidence used in the determination of fair value estimates are based solely on vendor-specific objective evidence. Third-party fair value evidence may be used for non-software products.
Different conclusions as to the existence and valuation of fair value estimates may significantly affect the timing and valuation of revenue recognition, the classification of leasing transactions, and the classification of revenue as product, service, rental or other income. It is impossible to determine the effects of potential different conclusions as they relate to the existence or valuation of fair value estimates.
Business Combinations
Assumptions and estimates are used to determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. A significant portion of the purchase price in many of our acquisitions is assigned to intangible assets, which requires management to use significant judgment in determining fair value. Current and future amortization expense for such intangibles is affected by purchase price allocations and by the assessment of estimated useful lives of such intangibles, excluding goodwill. We believe the assets recorded and the useful lives established are appropriate based upon current facts and circumstances.
In conjunction with the review of a transaction, the status of the acquired company's research and development projects is assessed to determine the existence of IPR&D. In connection with certain acquisitions, we are required to estimate the fair value of acquired IPR&D, which requires selecting an appropriate discount rate and estimating future cash flows for each project. Management also assesses the current status of development, nature and timing of efforts to complete such development, uncertainties and other factors when estimating the fair value. Costs are not assigned to IPR&D unless future development is probable. Once the fair value is
 
determined, an asset is established, and in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, ("FIN No. 4"), is immediately written-off in our combined statement of income. During fiscal 2008, we reversed $25 million of a previously recorded write-off of IPR&D costs associated with the acquisition of Viasys, as a result of the finalization of the Viasys purchase price allocation process and recorded charges of $18 million related to the write-off of IPR&D costs associated with Enturia. During fiscal 2007, we recorded charges of $84 million and $1 million primarily related to the write-off of IPR&D costs associated with Viasys (see note 3 to our audited combined financial statements).
Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS No. 141(R), ("SFAS 141(R)"). SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for business combinations with an acquisition date within fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. SFAS No. 141(R) changes many aspects of business combinations, and could significantly influence how we pursue future business combinations. See note 1 to the audited combined financial statements for further information.
Business Combinations
Goodwill and Other Intangibles
We account for goodwill in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 142, ("SFAS No. 142"). Under SFAS No. 142, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Intangible assets with finite lives, primarily trademarks and patents, continue to be amortized over their useful lives. In conducting the impairment test, the fair value of our reporting units is compared to its carrying amount including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, further analysis is performed to assess impairment.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
We perform our impairment testing at the operating segment level as defined in SFAS No. 142 because all of the components of each operating segment are similar and none of their components are reporting units. Our determination of fair value of the reporting units is based on a discounted cash flow analysis. The discount rates used for impairment testing are based on the risk-free rate plus an adjustment for risk factors. Our impairment review process uses estimates of future revenue for the reporting units, driven by assumed market growth rates and projected operating margins. These estimates are consistent with the plans and assumptions that we use to manage the underlying businesses.
Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of our reporting units. The use of alternative estimates, changes in the industry or adjusting the discount rate could affect the estimated fair value of the assets and potentially result in impairment. Any identified impairment would result in an adjustment to our results of operations.
We performed our annual impairment tests as of April 1, 2009, from which the fair value for each reporting segment exceeded the carrying value in our testing, therefore further analysis was not required and we did not recognize any goodwill impairment charges. If the carrying value had exceeded the fair value, we would have performed further analysis, comparing the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit to the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill. The most significant input in our discounted cash flow model is the discount rate. Increasing the discount rate by 1 percentage point would not have indicated impairment for any of our reporting units. See note 8 to our audited combined financial statements for additional information regarding goodwill and other intangibles.
Restructuring and Acquisition Integration Charges
We separately identify restructuring and acquisition integration charges in SG&A expenses. A restructuring activity is a program whereby we fundamentally change our operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re-alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Restructuring charges are recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 146, ("SFAS No. 146"). Under SFAS No. 146, a liability is measured at its fair value and recognized as incurred.
Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
Acquisition integration charges include costs to integrate acquired companies. Upon acquisition, certain integration charges are included within the purchase price allocation in accordance with SFAS No. 141, ("SFAS No. 141"), and other integration charges are recorded as special items as incurred.
Business Combinations
 
The majority of the charges related to restructuring and acquisition integration can be classified in one of the following categories: employee-related costs, exit costs (including lease termination costs), asset impairments, IPR&D costs, and other integration costs. Employee-related costs include severance and termination benefits. Lease termination costs include lease cancellation fees, forfeited deposits and remaining payments due under existing lease agreements less estimated sublease income. Other facility exit costs include costs to move equipment or inventory out of a facility as well as other costs incurred to shut down a facility. Asset impairment costs include the reduction in value of our assets as a result of the integration or restructuring activities. IPR&D costs include the write-off of research and development projects in process at the time of acquisition, which had not yet reached technological feasibility and were deemed to have no alternative use. Other integration costs primarily include charges directly related to the integration plan such as consulting costs related to information systems and employee benefit plans as well as relocation and travel costs directly associated with the integration plan. See note 4 to our audited combined financial statements for additional information.
Provision for Income Taxes
Our income taxes as presented are calculated on a separate tax return basis, although our operations have historically been included in Cardinal Health's U.S. federal and state tax returns or non-U.S. jurisdictions tax returns. Cardinal Health's global tax model has been developed based on its entire portfolio of businesses. Accordingly, our tax results as presented are not necessarily reflective of the results that we would have generated on a stand-alone basis.
With the exception of certain dedicated foreign entities, we do not maintain taxes payable to/from our parent and we are deemed to settle the annual current tax balances immediately with the legal tax paying entities in the respective jurisdictions. These settlements are reflected as changes in "Parent Company Investment".
Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and measurement of uncertain tax positions reflect management's assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the combined financial statements.
Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes. We had deferred income tax assets before valuation allowances of $277 million and $244 million as of June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008, respectively. We also had deferred income tax liabilities of $811 million and $849 million as of June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At June 30, 2009, we had gross federal, state and international loss and credit carryforwards of $5 million, $136 million and $39 million, respectively, the tax effect of which is an aggregate deferred tax asset of $23 million. Substantially all of these carryforwards are available for at least three years or have an indefinite carryforward period. The valuation allowance of $6 million at June 30, 2009 applies to certain federal, international, and state and local carryforwards that, in the opinion of management, are more likely than not to expire unutilized. However, to the extent that tax benefits related to these carryforwards are realized in the future, the reduction in the valuation allowance would be applied against income tax expense.
We believe that our estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and measurement of uncertain tax positions are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. However, other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop a different estimate, and the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amounts accrued.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we adopted the provisions of FIN No. 48, ("FIN No. 48"). FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, ("SFAS No. 109"). This standard provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. This interpretation also provides guidance on measurement, derecognizing benefits, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and disclosures.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
Accounting for Income Taxes
During the quarter ended September 30, 2008, Cardinal Health received an IRS Revenue Agent's Report for the tax years 2003 through 2005 that included Notices of Proposed Adjustment related to transfer pricing arrangements between foreign and domestic subsidiaries and the transfer of intellectual property among our subsidiaries. The amount of additional tax proposed by the IRS in these notices totals $462 million, excluding penalties and interest, which may be significant. We and Cardinal Health disagree with the IRS regarding the application of the U.S. Treasury regulations to the arrangements under review and the valuations underlying such adjustments and intend to vigorously contest them.
The proper transfer price to be charged among subsidiaries and the value of intellectual property transferred among subsidiaries are subjective determinations that depend on the specific facts and circumstances at issue. Management estimated a contingent tax reserve
 
for these issues by first concluding that our positions are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The reserve was then determined by evaluating and weighing the technical merits of alternative valuation methodologies against each other and concluding on the positions that provide the largest amount of tax benefit that is more likely than not of being realized upon ultimate resolution. To the extent there are any administrative or case law developments that provide additional evidence in favor or against the valuation methodologies utilized, the contingent tax reserve will be adjusted in the period that such developments occur.
Since it is not currently possible to predict whether and when any of these events will occur, we are unable to quantify potential changes. Although we believe that we have provided an appropriate contingent tax reserve for these matters under FASB Interpretation, or FIN, No. 48, we may not be fully reserved for this matter and it is possible that we may be obligated to pay an amount in excess of the reserve, including the full amount that the IRS is seeking. Any such obligation could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Loss Contingencies
We accrue for contingencies related to litigation and other claims arising out of our business in accordance with SFAS No. 5, ("SFAS No. 5") which requires us to assess contingencies to determine the degree of probability and range of possible loss. An estimated loss contingency is accrued in our combined financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Because these claims are often inherently unpredictable and unfavorable resolutions could occur, assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. We regularly review contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. The amount of ultimate loss may differ from these estimates.
Accounting for Contingencies
Share-Based Compensation
Cardinal Health maintains certain share-based compensation plans that enable Cardinal Health to grant awards to all employees, including our employees, in the form of Cardinal Health equity-based instruments. During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, Cardinal Health adopted SFAS No. 123(R), ("SFAS No. 123(R)"), applying the modified prospective method. This statement requires all equity-based payments to employees, including grants of options, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of income based on the grant date fair value of the award.
Share-Based Payment
The fair values of options granted after Cardinal Health adopted this statement were determined using a lattice valuation model, whereas all options granted prior to adoption of this statement were valued using a Black-Scholes model. Our estimate of an option's fair value depends on a complex estimation process that requires the estimation of future uncertain events. These events, estimates of which are entered within the option valuation model include, but are not limited to, stock price volatility, the expected option life, expected dividend yield and option forfeiture rates. Effective with all options granted subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), we estimate our future stock price volatility based on implied volatility from traded options on Cardinal Health's common shares and historical volatility over a period of time commensurate with the contractual term of the option grant (7 years). We analyzed historical data to estimate option exercise behaviors and employee terminations to estimate the expected option life and forfeiture rates. We calculated separate option valuations for three separate groups of employees with similar historical exercise behaviors. Once employee stock option values are determined, current accounting practices do not permit them to be changed, even if the estimates used in the valuation model are different from actual results. SFAS No. 123(R) requires us, however, to compare our estimated option forfeiture rates to actual forfeiture rates and record any adjustments as necessary. See note 18 to our audited combined financial statements for additional information regarding share-based compensation.
New Accounting Pronouncements
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, ("SFAS No. 157"). This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements, but does not require any new fair value measurements.
SFAS No. 157.
Fair Value Measurements
SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position, or FSP, No. FAS 157-2 ("FSP FAS 157-2"), which delayed the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. We adopted SFAS No. 157 for its financial assets and liabilities in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, which did not result in recognition of a transaction adjustment to retained earnings or have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We will adopt the provisions for nonfinancial assets and liabilities in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157
 
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, ("SFAS No. 161"). SFAS No. 161 requires enhanced disclosures about an entity's derivative and hedging activities, including (i) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; (ii) how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133; and (iii) how derivative instruments and the related hedged item affect an entity's results of operations, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. We adopted SFAS No. 161 in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. Since SFAS No. 161 is a disclosure standard, this adoption did not have any impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
SFAS No. 161.
Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133
In May 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 165, ("SFAS No. 165"). This statement provides guidance to establish general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. This statement is effective for interim or fiscal periods ending after June 15, 2009, and is applied prospectively. We adopted SFAS No. 165 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009; this adoption did not have any impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
SFAS No. 165.
Subsequent Events
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
To the Stockholders and the
Board of Directors of CareFusion Corporation
We have audited the accompanying combined balance sheets of CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") as of June 30, 2009 and 2008, and the related combined statements of earnings, parent company equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2009. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at page 41. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these combined financial statements and the financial statement schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the combined financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the combined financial position of the Company as of June 30, 2009 and 2008, and the combined results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2009, in conformity with the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic combined financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Note 10 to the combined financial statements, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" as of July 1, 2007.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Diego, California
September 15, 2009,
except for Note 2, as to which the date is
November 13, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
On September 29, 2008, Cardinal Health announced that it intended to separate its clinical and medical products businesses from the remainder of its businesses through a pro rata distribution of common stock of an entity holding the assets and liabilities associated with the clinical and medical products businesses. CareFusion Corporation was incorporated in Delaware on January 14, 2009 for the purpose of holding such businesses. We completed the spinoff from Cardinal Health on August 31, 2009. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health contributed the majority of the businesses comprising its clinical and medical products segment to us ("the contribution"), and distributed approximately 81% of our outstanding common stock, or approximately 179.8 million shares, to its shareholders ("the distribution"), based on a distribution ratio of 0.5 shares of our common stock for each common share of Cardinal Health held on the record date of August 25, 2009. Cardinal Health retained approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock, or approximately 41.4 million shares, in connection with the spinoff. As a condition to the separation, Cardinal Health is required to dispose of the remaining 19% of our common stock within five years of the distribution date. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health retained certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the U.S. markets that were historically managed by us prior to the spinoff, which were part of the clinical and medical products businesses of Cardinal Health. These lines of businesses are reflected in the CareFusion financial information as discontinued operations.
Separation from Cardinal Health, Inc.
In connection with the spinoff, we have incurred and expect to incur one-time expenditures primarily consisting of employee-related costs, including severance, costs to start up certain stand-alone functions and information technology systems, and other one-time transaction related costs. Additionally, we will incur increased costs as an independent publicly-traded company, primarily as a result of higher charges than in the past from Cardinal Health for transition services and from establishing or expanding the corporate support for our financial reporting, investor relations, legal, procurement and other services. We believe cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund these additional corporate expenses.
Unless the context otherwise requires, references in these notes to audited combined financial statements to "CareFusion Corporation," "CareFusion," "we," "us," "our," "the company" and "our company" refer to CareFusion Corporation and its combined subsidiaries. References in notes to audited combined financial statements to "Cardinal Health" or "parent" refers to Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries (other than CareFusion Corporation and its combined subsidiaries), unless the context otherwise requires.
We are a global medical technology company with clinically proven products and services designed to measurably improve the safety and quality of healthcare. We offer comprehensive product lines in the areas of intravenous, or IV, infusion, medication and supply dispensing, respiratory care, infection prevention and surgical instruments. Our primary product brands include: Alaris, Pyxis, AVEA, Pulmonetic Systems, Jaeger, SensorMedics, ChloraPrep and V. Mueller. Our primary customers in the United States include hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers, clinics, long-term care facilities and physician offices. Our business consists of two reporting segments: Critical Care Technologies and Medical Technologies and Services:
Our Business.
 
 
The combined financial statements presented herein, and discussed below, have been prepared on a stand-alone basis and are derived from the combined financial statements and accounting records of Cardinal Health. The combined financial statements reflect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows as we were historically managed, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP. Included within our combined financial statements are the results of certain businesses which have historically been managed by us but will be retained by Cardinal Health post separation. These lines of businesses are reflected in the combined financial statements as discontinued operations. Our fiscal year ends on June 30. All significant intracompany transactions and accounts between our businesses have been eliminated.
Principles of Combination and Basis of Presentation.
All significant intercompany transactions between us and Cardinal Health have been included in these combined financial statements and are considered to be effectively settled for cash in the combined financial statements at the time the transaction is recorded. The total net effect of the settlement of these intercompany transactions is reflected in the combined statements of cash flow as a financing
activity and in the combined balance sheets as "Parent Company Investment". All references to "notes" mean the notes to the audited combined financial statements presented herein.
 
 
CareFusion historically has utilized the services of Cardinal Health for certain functions. These services include, but are not limited to, providing working capital, as well as certain legal, finance, information technology, internal audit, tax advisory, and human resources services, including various employee benefit programs. The cost of these services has been allocated to CareFusion and included in the combined financial statements. We consider the basis on which the expenses have been allocated to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or the benefit received by us during the periods presented. Additionally, in the periods presented we had earned royalty income from Cardinal Health and received a push down of assets and liabilities, including debt and interest expense, that has been historically reported by Cardinal Health but is specifically identifiable or otherwise allocated to us. A more detailed discussion of the relationship with Cardinal Health, including a description of the costs which have been allocated to us, as well as the method of allocation, is included in note 15.
Additionally, our combined financial statements may not be indicative of our future performance and do not necessarily reflect what the results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we operated as an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the combined financial statements and accompanying notes. Such estimates include, but are not limited to, allowance for doubtful accounts, rebate accruals, inventory valuation, goodwill and intangible asset impairment, preliminary and final purchase accounting valuations including acquired in-process research and development costs, or IPR&D, equity-based compensation, income taxes, loss contingencies and restructuring charge reserves. Actual amounts may differ from these estimated amounts.
Use of Estimates.
We consider all liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The carrying value of these cash equivalents approximates fair value.
Cash Equivalents.
Trade receivables are primarily comprised of amounts owed to us through our operating activities and are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and accrued rebates. Our allowance for doubtful accounts totaled $20 million at both June 30, 2009 and 2008. An account is considered past due on the first day after its due date. We monitor past due accounts on an ongoing basis and establish appropriate reserves to cover probable losses. We write off any amounts deemed uncollectible against an established allowance for doubtful accounts.
Receivables.
Rebates are paid when third party distributors are able to charge us back for the difference between the price charged to the customer and the price paid by the distributor when the end customer pricing is established by us. Upon revenue recognition, we estimate the difference between the price charged to the customer and the price paid by the distributor based on historical data and record these accrued rebates as a reduction to the related revenues and receivables.
We maintain cash depository accounts with major banks throughout the world and invest in high quality short-term liquid instruments. Such investments are made only in instruments issued or enhanced by high quality institutions. These investments mature within three months, and we have not historically incurred any related losses.
Concentrations of Credit Risk and Major Customers.
Our trade receivables, lease receivables and accrued interest receivables are exposed to a concentration of credit risk with customers in the healthcare sector. Credit risk can be affected by changes in reimbursement and other economic pressures impacting the hospital and acute care sectors of the healthcare industry. Such credit risk is limited, however, due to supporting collateral and the diversity of the customer base, including its wide geographic dispersion. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers' financial conditions and maintain reserves for credit losses. Such losses historically have been within our expectations.
Certain of our businesses have entered into agreements with group purchasing organizations, or GPOs, which have established relationships with the users of our products and act as purchasing agents that negotiate vendor contracts on behalf of their members. We do not have exclusive arrangements with these organizations and either party can terminate the relationship at any time. However, our trade receivable balances are with individual members of the GPO, and therefore no significant concentration of credit risk exists with these types of arrangements specific to the GPO.
From time to time, we acquire businesses and/or assets that augment and complement our operations. These acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The combined financial statements include the results of
Acquisitions.
operations from these business combinations as of the date of acquisition. Additional disclosure related to our acquisitions is provided in note 3.
 
 
We primarily compute inventory cost on a currently adjusted standard basis (which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis). We reduce the carrying value of inventories to a lower of cost or market basis for those items that are potentially excess, obsolete or slow-moving. We reserve for inventory obsolescence based upon historical experience, sales trends, and specific categories of inventory and age of on-hand inventory. Work-in-process and finished goods inventories include raw materials, direct labor and manufacturing overhead. See note 6 for additional information.
Inventories.
Property and equipment are stated at cost. Property and equipment held for sale are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value less cost to sell. Depreciation expense is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, including capital lease assets which are depreciated over the shorter of the terms of their respective leases or their estimated useful lives. We use the following range of useful lives for our property and equipment categories: buildings and improvements: 1 to 39 years; machinery and equipment: 3 to 15 years; and furniture and fixtures: 3 to 7 years. When certain events or changes in operating conditions occur, an impairment assessment may be performed on the recoverability of the carrying amounts. See note 7 for additional information.
Property and Equipment.
Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price of an acquired entity over the amounts assigned to assets and liabilities assumed in the business combination. We account for purchased goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Standards, or SFAS, No. 142, ("SFAS No. 142"). Under SFAS No. 142, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment at least annually. Intangible assets with finite lives, primarily customer relationships, patents and trademarks, are amortized over their useful lives. We test goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if certain indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest impairment may exist. We conduct our impairment testing one level below our reportable segments, referred to as operating segments, as the business units comprising the operating segments service a common group of customers, offer complementary products, and share a common strategy. We test for impairment by comparing the fair value of each of the operating units to their respective carrying amount including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, further analysis is performed to assess impairment.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The determination of fair value of the operating units is based on a discounted cash flow analysis. This approach incorporates many assumptions including future growth rates, discount factors and income tax rates. Changes in economic and operating conditions impacting these assumptions could result in goodwill impairment in future periods.
We offer warranties on certain products for various periods of time. We accrue the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. Our product warranty liability reflects our best estimate of probable liability under our product warranties. We estimate the liability based on our stated warranty policies and practices, the historical frequency of claims and the cost to replace or repair our products under warranty. Factors that affect our warranty liability include the number of units sold, the length of the warranty, historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims and cost per claim. We regularly assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts as necessary. See note 17 for additional information.
Product Warranties.
Our income taxes as presented are calculated on a separate tax return basis, although our operations have historically been included in Cardinal Health's U.S. federal and state tax returns or non-U.S. jurisdictions tax returns. Cardinal Health's global tax model has been developed based on its entire portfolio of businesses. Accordingly, our tax results as presented are not necessarily reflective of the results that we would have generated on a stand-alone basis.
Income Taxes.
With the exception of certain dedicated foreign entities, we do not maintain taxes payable to/from our parent and we are deemed to settle the annual current tax balances immediately with the legal tax paying entities in the respective jurisdictions. These settlements are reflected as changes in Parent Company Investment.
In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109, ("SFAS No. 109"), we account for income taxes using the asset and liability method. The asset and liability method requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for expected future tax consequences of temporary differences that currently exist between tax basis and financial reporting basis of our assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in the respective jurisdictions in which we operate. Deferred taxes are not provided on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the United States when it is expected that these earnings are permanently reinvested.
Accounting for Income Taxes
In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation, or FIN, No. 48, ("FIN No. 48"). FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the combined financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109. This standard provides that a tax
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
 
 
benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. The cumulative effect of adoption of this interpretation was a $35 million reduction of Parent Company Investment. Of the $35 million reduction in "Parent Company Equity" $18 million is related to discontinued operations.
Other accrued liabilities represent various obligations, including certain accrued operating expenses. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, the largest components of other accrued liabilities were employee compensation and related benefit accruals of $62 million and $112 million, respectively, and deferred revenue of $85 million and $92 million, respectively.
Other Accrued Liabilities.
Parent Company Investment in the combined balance sheets represents Cardinal Health's historical investment in us in excess of debt allocated to us, our accumulated net income after taxes, and the net effect of the transactions with and allocations from Cardinal Health. See Principles of Combination and Basis of Presentation above and note 15 for additional information.
Parent Company Investment.
We account for all exit or disposal activities in accordance with SFAS No. 146, ("SFAS No. 146"). Under SFAS No. 146, a liability is measured at its fair value and recognized as incurred. Acquisition integration charges are expensed as incurred. Additional disclosure related to our restructuring charges is provided in note 4.
Restructuring Charges.
Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
Share-based compensation is accounted for under SFAS No. 123(R), ("SFAS No. 123(R)"). SFAS No. 123(R) requires that all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, be recognized in the income statement based at their grant date fair values. We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) on July 1, 2005, using the modified prospective transition method.
Share-Based Compensation.
Share-Based Payment
The compensation expense recognized for all share-based awards is net of estimated forfeitures and is recognized ratably over the awards' service period. We classify equity-based compensation within "Selling, General and Administrative Expenses", or SG&A, expenses to correspond with the same line item as the majority of the cash compensation paid to employees. See note 18 for additional information.
We generate revenue through the sale and lease of equipment, software, services, medical products, supplies, and the income associated with the financing of our equipment leases. In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Staff Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, No. 104, ("SAB No. 104"), we recognize revenue when:
Revenue Recognition.
Revenue Recognition
 
 
 
 
Revenue is recognized net of sales returns and allowances, administration fees, incentives and estimated rebates.
The majority of our revenue transactions qualify as multiple element arrangements. Revenue under these arrangements is accounted for in accordance with the principles of Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Consensus No. 00-21, ("EITF 00-21")and, if applicable, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position, or SOP, No. 97-2, ("SOP No. 97-2") and SFAS No. 13, ("SFAS No. 13"). Revenue in multiple element arrangements is allocated to each unit of accounting using the relative fair value method. Revenue is recognized for each unit of accounting individually. Fair value evidence used during the allocation process is limited to vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE of fair value, or historical prices in which the products have been sold in stand-alone transactions. To the extent products have not yet been sold on a stand alone basis, VSOE of fair value is the price which management with the authority to do so has established for the product. In the event that VSOE of fair value does not exist, data points outside of the organization are utilized as objective evidence of fair value for non-software products. When fair value evidence exists for undelivered elements but does not exist for delivered elements, we apply the residual method of accounting.
Multiple Element Arrangements
Software Revenue Recognition
,
Accounting for Leases
Equipment sale revenue consists of dispensing, respiratory, and infusion equipment sold without safety software. We recognize equipment sale revenue upon the transfer of title and risk of loss to the customer and the substantial completion of installation or training services. When related installation and training services are considered inconsequential, delivery is deemed to occur upon the transfer of title and risk of loss, at which time revenue and the costs associated with installation and training are recognized.
 
 
Equipment lease revenue consists primarily of dispensing equipment. Lease transactions are evaluated and classified as either operating leases or sales-type leases as defined in SFAS No. 13. We recognize sales-type leases as revenue upon the completion of installation activities in the amount of the present value of the minimum lease payments. We recognize operating lease revenue evenly over the lease term, commencing upon the completion of installation activities. We recognize equipment financing revenue over the term of the sales-type lease using the effective interest method.
Product revenue consists of medical products and supplies. We sell medical products and supplies to the medical distribution business of Cardinal Health and various unrelated third-parties. We recognize product revenue on sales through the medical distribution business of Cardinal Health when title transfers to the end customer, which is typically upon shipment from Cardinal Health to the end customer. Unrelated third parties include end customers and also distributors who maintain inventories of our products and later sell the products to end customers. In many cases, we negotiate the prices of medical products and supplies directly with end customers under pricing agreements, including GPO contracts. These negotiated prices are typically lower than the prices charged to distributors. When an end customer purchases medical products and supplies from a distributor under a pricing agreement, the distributor is able to charge us back for the difference between the price charged to the customer and the price paid by the distributor. We recognize product revenue on sales to unrelated third-parties when title transfers, typically upon shipment from us, net of estimated rebates, in accordance with SAB No. 104.
Software and software-related elements are comprised primarily of infusion equipment sold with safety software, patient identification software applications and related hardware, software installation services, and post-contract support. Software and software-related elements are recognized to revenue in accordance with the guidance of SOP No. 97-2. Software and software-related elements, with the exception of software maintenance, are recognized as revenue upon the later of delivery and the completion of associated service obligations. Software maintenance arrangements and other post-contract support offerings are recognized as revenue ratably over the service period.
We periodically review our product offerings with embedded software to determine whether the software is more than incidental to the product as a whole. When embedded software is more than incidental to a product as a whole, the product is classified as software for revenue recognition purposes. Any non-software product for which a software product is essential to its functionality is classified as a software related element. Software-related elements also include software installation services and post contract support.
Service revenue consists of separately priced extended warranty contracts, separately priced installation and training, and repair services. We recognize revenue for separately priced extended warranty contracts ratably over the service term in accordance with the guidance of FASB Technical Bulletin, or FTB, No. 90-1, ("FTB No. 90-1") Separately priced installation and training and repair services are recognized as revenue based on the completed performance method, which results in the recognition of revenue upon the extinguishment of our obligation to the customer. Service revenue was immaterial for all periods presented.
Accounting for Separately Priced Extended Warranty and Product Maintenance Contracts
.
Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of products sold in the combined statements of income. Shipping and handling costs include all delivery expenses as well as all costs to prepare the product for shipment to the end customer. Shipping and handling revenue received was immaterial for all periods presented.
Shipping and Handling.
Costs incurred in connection with development of new products and manufacturing methods are charged to expense as incurred, except certain software development costs which are capitalized after technological feasibility of the software is established.
Research and Development Costs.
IPR&D costs include the write-off of research and development projects in process at the time of acquisition, which had not yet reached technological feasibility and were deemed to have no alternative future use in accordance with FIN No. 4, ("FIN No. 4") Determining the value of IPR&D requires significant estimates. The value of IPR&D is determined by estimating the future cash flows of each project and discounting the net cash flows back to their present values. The discount rate used is determined at the time of acquisition in accordance with accepted valuation methods. These methodologies include consideration of the project not achieving commercial feasibility.
Acquired In-Process Research and Development Costs.
Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method
.
The financial statements of our entities outside the United States generally are measured using their local currency as the functional currency. Adjustments to translate the assets and liabilities of these foreign entities into
Translation of Foreign Currencies.
 
 
U.S. dollars are accumulated in parent company equity through other comprehensive income utilizing period-end exchange rates. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which are calculated by utilizing weighted average exchange rates for the period, are included in the combined statements of income in "Interest Expense and Other, Net".
We have historically used derivative financial instruments indirectly through our participation in the centralized hedging functions of Cardinal Health, which are designed primarily to minimize exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk. Cardinal Health does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Interest Rate & Foreign Currency Risk Management.
Cardinal Health uses forward currency exchange contracts and interest rate swaps to manage its exposures to the variability of cash flows primarily related to the foreign exchange rate changes of future foreign currency transaction costs and to the interest rate changes on borrowing costs. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges.
Cardinal Health uses foreign currency forward contracts to protect the value of existing foreign currency assets and liabilities. The remeasurement adjustments for any foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities are included in "Interest Expense and Other, Net" in our combined statement of income. The remeasurement adjustment is offset by the foreign currency forward contract settlements which are also classified in "Interest Expense and Other, Net" in our combined statements of income.
Cardinal Health's derivative contracts are adjusted to current market values each period and qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133, ("SFAS No. 133"), as amended. Periodic gains and losses of contracts designated as cash flow hedges are deferred in other comprehensive income until the underlying transactions are recognized. Upon recognition, such gains and losses are recorded in net income as an adjustment to the carrying amounts of underlying transactions in the period in which these transactions are recognized. For those contracts designated as fair value hedges, resulting gains or losses are recognized in earnings offsetting the exposure of underlying transactions. Carrying values of all contracts are included in other assets or liabilities. The effects of the interest rate and foreign currency derivative instruments (including the associated derivative assets and liabilities) have been pushed down to us on a specific identification basis.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
Cardinal Health's policy requires that contracts used as hedges must be effective at reducing the risk associated with the exposure being hedged and must be designated as a hedge at the inception of the contract. Hedging effectiveness is assessed periodically. Any contract not designated as a hedge, or so designated but ineffective, is adjusted to market value and recognized in net income immediately. If a cash flow hedge ceases to qualify for hedge accounting or is terminated, the contract would continue to be carried on the balance sheet at fair value until settled and future adjustments to the contract's fair value would be recognized in earnings immediately. If a forecasted transaction was no longer probable to occur, amounts previously deferred in other comprehensive income would be recognized immediately in earnings. Additional disclosure related to hedging contracts is provided in note 14.
Cardinal Health is exposed to counterparty credit risk on all of its derivative instruments. Accordingly, Cardinal Health has established and maintained strict counterparty credit guidelines and enters into hedges only with major financial institutions that are investment grade or better. We do not have significant exposure to any one counterparty and management believes the risk of loss is remote and in any event would not be material. Additionally, Cardinal Health does not require collateral under these agreements.
New Accounting Pronouncements (Adopted during fiscal year 2009)
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, ("SFAS No. 157"). This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements, but does not require any new fair value measurements.
SFAS No. 157.
Fair Value Measurements
SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position, or FSP, No. FAS 157-2, ("FSP FAS 157-2") which delayed the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. We adopted SFAS No. 157 for its financial assets and liabilities in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, which did not result in recognition of a transaction adjustment to retained earnings or have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We will adopt the provisions for nonfinancial assets and liabilities in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157
,
 
 
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, ("SFAS No. 161"). SFAS No. 161 requires enhanced disclosures about an entity's derivative and hedging activities, including (i) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; (ii) how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133; and (iii) how derivative instruments and the related hedged item affect an entity's results of operations, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. We adopted SFAS No. 161 in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. Since SFAS No. 161 is a disclosure standard, this adoption did not have any impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
SFAS No. 161.
Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133
In May 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 165, ("SFAS No. 165"). This statement provides guidance to establish general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. This statement is effective for interim or fiscal periods ending after June 15, 2009, and is applied prospectively. We adopted SFAS No. 165 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009; this adoption did not have any impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have evaluated subsequent events for recognition or disclosure through the date these financial statements were issued, September 15, 2009, which is the date the financial statements were initially filed with the SEC. (See Note 2 for impact of discontinued operations in revised financial statements).
SFAS No. 165.
Subsequent Events
New Accounting Pronouncements (Not yet adopted)
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), ("SFAS 141(R)"), which is a revision of SFAS No. 141. In general, SFAS No. 141(R) expands the definition of a business and transactions that are accounted for as business combinations. In addition, SFAS No. 141(R) generally requires all assets and liabilities of acquired entities to be recorded at fair value, and changes the recognition and measurement of related aspects of business combinations. SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for business combinations with an acquisition date within fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The standard is required to be adopted prospectively and early adoption is not allowed. We are in the process of determining the effect the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) will have on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Upon adoption of FAS 141(R), adjustments to acquired tax contingencies for all acquisitions, regardless if they were completed prior to the adoption of FAS 141(R), are recorded to the income statement, rather than as an adjustment to Goodwill, if they occur anytime after the measurement period (generally one year from the acquisition date).
SFAS No. 141(R).
Business Combinations
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, ("SFAS No. 160"). In general, SFAS No. 160 requires that a noncontrolling interest in a consolidated subsidiary be presented in the consolidated statements of financial position as a separate component of equity and also establishes a framework for recognition of changes in control for a consolidated subsidiary that is not 100% owned. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years. We are in the process of determining the effect the adoption of SFAS No. 160 will have on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
SFAS No. 160.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51
In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 166, ("SFAS No. 166"). In general, SFAS No. 166 amends SFAS No. 140, ("SFAS No. 140") to address accounting practices that have developed since the issuance of SFAS No. 140 that are not consistent with the original intent and key requirements of the Statement and address concerns that many financial assets and related obligations that have been derecognized should continue to be reported in the financial statement of the transferors. SFAS No. 166 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009, for interim periods within those fiscal years, and for interim and annual reporting periods thereafter. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 166 will have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
SFAS No. 166.
Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 140
Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities
In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167, ("SFAS No. 167"). In general, SFAS No. 167 amends certain guidance for determining whether an entity is a variable interest entity (VIE), requires a qualitative rather than a quantitative analysis to determine the primary beneficiary for a VIE, requires continuous assessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a VIE and requires enhanced disclosures about an enterprise's involvement with a VIE. SFAS No. 167 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009, for interim periods within those fiscal years, and for interim and annual reporting periods thereafter. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 167 will have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
SFAS No. 167.
Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)
 
 
In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 168, ("SFAS No. 168"). SFAS No. 168 establishes the FASB Accounting Standards Codification as the source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. SFAS No. 168 is effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 168 will have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
SFAS No. 168.
The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles - a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 162
NOTE 2. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
On August 31, 2009, we completed the spinoff from Cardinal Health. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health contributed the majority of the clinical and medical products segment to us, and retained certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the U.S. markets that were historically managed by us and, prior to the distribution, were part of the clinical and medical products businesses of Cardinal Health.
Audiology Business
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, management committed to a plan to dispose of its Audiology business which produces and markets hearing diagnostic equipment. The sale of the Audiology business was completed on October 1, 2009. Terms of the sale provide for adjustments in the final purchase price for a period of time subsequent to the closing.
The historical results of operations from the businesses retained by Cardinal Health and Audiology business have been presented within our financial statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented. As a result, the historical footnote disclosures have been revised to exclude amounts related to these businesses.
Summarized selected financial information for discontinued operations for the years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as follows:
 
 
 
The assets and liabilities of discontinued operations are stated separately as of June 30, 2009 and 2008 on the accompanying combined balance sheets and are comprised of the following amounts:
 
In connection with the revision of our historical results of operations, we have evaluated the subsequent events for recognition and disclosure related to discontinued operations through November 13, 2009.
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS
During fiscal year 2009, we did not complete any significant acquisitions.
Fiscal 2009.
 On May 12, 2008, we completed the acquisition of the assets of privately held Enturia Inc., or Enturia, a manufacturer of products and services directed at the infection prevention markets. The purchase price of the acquisition, which was paid in cash, was approximately $490 million, including the assumption of approximately $14 million of liabilities, which included $5 million of debt.
Fiscal 2008.
The final valuation of the acquired assets and liabilities resulted in goodwill of approximately $328 million and identifiable intangible assets of $129 million. Various factors contributed to the establishment of goodwill, including the benefit of adding Enturia's portfolio of products, highly trained workforce, increased market penetration and future products. We identified and valued intangible assets related to trade names and trademarks, developed technology and customer relationships. The detail by category is as follows:
 
During fiscal 2008, we recorded a charge of $18 million related to the write-off of estimated IPR&D costs associated with the Enturia acquisition. The portion of the purchase price allocated to IPR&D in fiscal 2008 represented our preliminary estimate of the fair value of the research and development projects in-process at the time of the acquisition. These projects had not yet reached technological feasibility were deemed to have no alternative use and, accordingly, were immediately expensed at the acquisition date in accordance with FIN No. 4. During fiscal 2009, we completed the valuation of IPR&D and no adjustment is needed to the IPR&D charge recorded in fiscal 2008.
In connection with restructuring and integration plans related to our acquisition of Enturia, we accrued, as part of our acquisition adjustments, a liability of $20 million related to closing of certain facilities and $4 million related to employee termination costs.
 
 
During fiscal 2009, we reclassified the $20 million liability to goodwill as it is no longer feasible to consolidate facilities due to the fact that the planned destination facilities will remain with Cardinal Health post separation. As of June 30, 2009, we had paid $3 million associated with employee-termination costs.
In addition, during fiscal 2008 we completed other acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $31 million with potential maximum contingent payments of $85 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were immaterial. In connection with these other acquisitions, we recognized $25 million of IPR&D costs.
The combined financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations from the date of acquisition. Had the transactions occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2008, results of operations would not have differed materially from reported results.
 On June 21 and 27, 2007, we completed the initial and subsequent tender offers for the outstanding common stock of VIASYS Healthcare Inc., or Viasys, a publicly-traded provider of products and services directed at the critical care ventilation, respiratory diagnostics and clinical services and other medical and surgical products markets. Through the tender offers, a total of approximately 29 million shares of Viasys common stock were validly tendered for $42.75 per share, which represented approximately 88% of all outstanding shares of Viasys. On June 28, 2007, we acquired from Viasys a number of additional shares so that we would hold more than 90% of the outstanding shares on a fully diluted basis. The same day, Viasys merged with a subsidiary of ours to complete the transaction.
Fiscal 2007.
The following table provides detail of the significant assets and liabilities acquired in connection with this transaction based on the final valuation upon acquisition:
 
 
 
Pro Forma Results (Unaudited)
The following summary, prepared on a pro forma basis, presents unaudited combined results of operations as if the acquisition of Viasys had been completed as of the beginning of fiscal 2007, after including the impact of adjustments for amortization of intangibles, interest expense on related borrowings and the effect of income taxes. This pro forma presentation does not include any impact of transaction synergies.
 
The pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of our results of operations had we owned Viasys for the entire periods presented.
The final valuation of the acquired assets and liabilities after certain purchase accounting adjustments resulted in goodwill of approximately $1.0 billion, which is not deductible for tax purposes, and identifiable intangible assets of $376 million as reported at June 30, 2007. The final valuation, completed in fiscal 2008, resulted in an $82 million reclassification from goodwill to identifiable intangible assets. Various factors contributed to the establishment of goodwill, including the benefit of our product sales force adding Viasys's portfolio of products, highly trained workforce, increased market penetration and future products. We identified and valued intangible assets related to trade names and trademarks, developed technology and customer relationships. The detail by category is as follows:
 
During fiscal 2007, we recorded a charge of $84 million related to the write-off of estimated IPR&D costs associated with the Viasys acquisition. This charge was based on our preliminary estimate of the fair value of IPR&D. During fiscal 2008, we completed the valuation of IPR&D and recorded a $25 million adjustment to reduce the total write-off of IPR&D associated with the Viasys acquisition to $59 million. The portion of the purchase price allocated to IPR&D represents the estimated fair value of the research and development projects in-process at the time of the acquisition. These projects had not yet reached technological feasibility and were deemed to have no alternative use and, accordingly, were expensed in accordance with FIN No. 4.
In connection with restructuring and integration plans related to our acquisition of Viasys, we accrued, as part of our acquisition adjustments, a liability of $17 million for legal and recall charges, $11 million related to employee termination and relocation costs, $11 million related to closing of certain facilities and $2 million for other restructuring charges. As of June 30, 2009, we had paid $5 million of legal and recall related costs, $8 million of employee-related costs and $9 million associated with the facility closures. Additionally, we reversed $6 million of the $17 million accrued legal and recall charges and $2 million of the $11 million employee termination and relocation costs due to revised estimates.
In addition, during fiscal 2007 we completed other acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $145 million with potential maximum contingent payments of $11 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were $19 million. In connection with these minor acquisitions, we recognized $1 million of IPR&D costs.
 
 
NOTE 4. RESTRUCTURING AND ACQUISITION INTEGRATION CHARGES
Restructuring charges are recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 146. Under SFAS No. 146, a liability is measured at its fair value and recognized as incurred. Acquisition integration charges are expensed as incurred.
The following is a summary of restructuring and acquisition integration charges for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
 
Restructuring Charges
In fiscal 2009 we launched a series of restructuring programs with the goal to provide improved management focus through the re-alignment of the management structure and lowering its cost structure through a reduction in global workforce. The entire restructuring program is expected to result in $73 million in pre-tax charges. We recorded $58 million of the expected $73 million pre-tax restructuring charge during fiscal 2009. We expect the programs to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal 2010.
In addition to participating in the restructuring programs discussed above, we periodically incur costs to implement smaller restructuring efforts for specific operations. The restructuring plans focus on various aspects of operations, including closing and consolidating certain manufacturing operations, rationalizing headcount, and aligning operations in the most strategic and cost-efficient structure.
The following table and paragraphs provide additional detail regarding the types of restructuring charges incurred by us for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
 
These costs primarily consist of severance accrued upon either communication of terms to employees or over the required service period, outplacement services provided to employees who have been involuntarily terminated and duplicate payroll costs during transition periods.
Employee-Related Costs
.
These costs primarily consist of accelerated depreciation, equipment relocation costs, project consulting fees, and costs associated with restructuring our delivery of information technology infrastructure services.
Facility Exit and Other Costs
.
Acquisition Integration Charges
Costs of integrating operations of various acquired companies are recorded as acquisition integration charges when incurred. The acquisition integration charges incurred during fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 were primarily a result of the acquisition of Viasys. The cost incurred during fiscal 2007 was primarily a result of the fiscal 2004 acquisition of ALARIS Medical Systems, Inc., or Alaris. During the fiscal years noted above, we also incurred acquisition integration charges for numerous smaller acquisitions.
 
 
The following table and paragraphs provide additional detail regarding the types of acquisition integration charges incurred by us for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
 
These costs primarily consist of severance, retention bonuses, non-compete agreements and other forms of compensatory payouts made to employees as a direct result of the acquisitions.
Employee-Related Costs.
Other integration costs generally relate to expenses incurred to integrate the acquired company's operations and systems into our existing operations and systems. These costs include, but are not limited to, the integration of information systems, employee benefits and compensation, corporate accounting and finance, sales and marketing and other.
Other Integration Costs.
The following table summarizes activity related to liabilities associated with our restructuring charges as of June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, which are included within "Other Accrued Liabilities" in the combined balance sheets:
Restructuring Accrual Rollforward.
 
Certain acquisition and restructuring costs are based upon estimates. Actual amounts paid may ultimately differ from these estimates. If additional costs are incurred or recognized amounts exceed costs, such changes in estimates will be recognized when incurred.
NOTE 5. LEASES
Our sales-type leases are for terms generally ranging from three to five years. Lease receivables are generally collateralized by the underlying equipment. The components of our net investment in sales-type leases are as follows as of June 30, 2009 and 2008:
Sales Type Leases.
 
Future minimum lease payments to be received pursuant to sales-type leases during the next five fiscal years and thereafter are as follows:
 
 
 
Products under operating leases consist of the following at June 30, 2009 and 2008:
Operating Lease Revenue.
 
Future minimum lease payments to be received pursuant to operating leases during the next five fiscal years and thereafter are as follows:
 
NOTE 6. INVENTORIES
Inventories, accounted for at the lower of cost or market on the FIFO method, consisted of the following as of June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
NOTE 7. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
Property and equipment was comprised of the following at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively:
 
Depreciation expense was $97 million, $83 million and $59 million for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We expense repairs and maintenance expenditures as incurred.
 
 
NOTE 8. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The following table summarizes the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the two years ended June 30, 2009:
 
As of June 30, 2009, goodwill for the Critical Care Technologies segment and the Medical Technologies and Services segment was $2,137 million and $766 million, respectively.
Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their useful lives which range from three to 20 years. The detail of other intangible assets by class for the two years ended June 30, 2009 is as follows:
 
Amortization expense for the three years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as follows:
 
Amortization expense for each of the next five fiscal years is estimated to be:
 
 
 
NOTE 9. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consisted of the following as of June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
NOTE 10. BORROWINGS
Outstanding borrowings consisted of the following as of June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
Cardinal Health uses a centralized approach to U.S. domestic cash management and financing of its operations, excluding debt directly incurred by any of its businesses, such as debt assumed in an acquisition or certain capital lease obligations. The majority of our U.S. domestic cash is transferred to Cardinal Health daily and Cardinal Health funds our operating and investing activities as needed. A portion of Cardinal Health's consolidated debt, which consists primarily of fixed rate public debt, has been allocated to us based on the debt levels consistent with an investment grade credit rating, including amounts directly incurred. The allocated debt amounts, presented as "Debt Allocated from Parent" have been classified on our balance sheet based on the maturities of Cardinal Health's underlying debt. Net interest expense has been allocated in the same proportions as debt and includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges. For fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, Cardinal Health has allocated to us net interest expense of $80 million, $88 million, and $72 million, respectively.
Debt Allocated from Parent.
We believe the allocation basis for debt and net interest expense is reasonable based on the debt levels consistent with an investment grade credit rating for us. However, these amounts may not be indicative of the actual amounts that we would have incurred had we been operating as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented.
We also maintained other short-term credit facilities and an unsecured line of credit that allowed for borrowings up to $49 million and $59 million at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At June 30, 2009 and 2008, $16 million and $20 million, respectively, were outstanding under uncommitted facilities. The June 30, 2009 and 2008 outstanding balances under uncommitted facilities included $4 million and $5 million, respectively, which were classified in other obligations at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Additionally at June 30, 2009 and 2008 we had outstanding letters of credit under the uncommitted facilities of $12 million and $15 million, respectively. The remaining $4 million and $7 million balance of other obligations at June 30, 2009, and
Other Borrowings.
2008, respectively, consisted primarily of additional notes, loans and capital leases. Obligations related to capital leases are secured by the underlying assets.
 
 
On July 1, 2009, we entered into a senior unsecured bridge loan facility (the "bridge loan facility") to provide financing for an aggregate principal amount of $1.4 billion, with a term of 364 days from the date of any funding, for payment of the distribution to Cardinal Health as part of our spinoff. As the senior unsecured note offering (see below) was successfully completed prior to the separation, those proceeds were used to finance the payment of the distribution to Cardinal Health in lieu of drawing the bridge loan facility. As a result, the bridge loan facility was terminated on August 31, 2009. In connection with this termination, we expensed approximately $21 million of capitalized fees in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
Bridge Loan Facility.
On July 1, 2009, we also entered into two senior unsecured revolving credit facilities with an aggregate principal amount of $720 million, with commitments thereunder allocated as follows:
Revolving Credit Facilities.
 
 
The commitments under the three-year revolving credit facility are subject to increase, upon our request and consent by the lenders, by up to an aggregate of $30 million, subject to certain conditions and commitments. Borrowings under the three-year revolving credit facility bear interest at a floating rate per annum based upon the London interbank offered rate for dollars ("LIBOR") or the alternate base rate ("ABR"), in each case, plus an applicable margin, which in the case of LIBOR varies from 2.1% to 3.375% depending on CareFusion's debt ratings and in the case of ABR varies from 1.1% to 2.375% depending on CareFusion's debt ratings. Borrowings under the 364-day revolving credit facility bear interest at a floating rate per annum based upon LIBOR or ABR, in each case, plus an applicable margin, which in the case of LIBOR varies from 2.2% to 3.5% based upon CareFusion's debt ratings and in the case of ABR varies from 1.2% to 2.5% based upon CareFusion's debt ratings. All obligations under the revolving credit facilities will continue to be guaranteed by each of our existing and future direct and indirect material domestic subsidiaries.
The revolving credit facilities contain several customary covenants including, but not limited to, limitations on liens, subsidiary indebtedness, investments, dispositions, restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, and sale and lease-back transactions. The revolving credit facilities also contain financial covenants requiring CareFusion to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of no more than 3.00:1.00 at any time during any period of four fiscal quarters, and a consolidated interest coverage ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of at least (i) 3.25:1.00 for the fiscal quarters ended on September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009, (ii) 3.50:1.00 for the fiscal quarter ended on March 31, 2010, and (iii) 3.75:1.00 for the fiscal quarter ended on June 30, 2010 and thereafter. The revolving credit facilities are subject to customary events of default, including, but not limited to, non-payment of principal or other amounts when due, breach of covenants, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, cross-default to other material indebtedness, certain ERISA-related events, certain voluntary and involuntary bankruptcy events, and change of control.
On July 14, 2009, we offered and sold $1.4 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes. The notes consist of the following tranches:
Senior Unsecured Notes.
 
 
 
The net proceeds of the offering were placed into an escrow account and were subsequently used to finance the distribution payment to Cardinal Health of approximately $1.4 billion related to our spinoff. The 2012 notes will mature on August 1, 2012, the 2014 notes will mature on August 1, 2014 and the 2019 notes will mature on August 1, 2019. In each case, interest will be paid on each February 1 and August 1, commencing February 1, 2010.
The indenture for the senior notes limits our ability to incur certain secured debt and enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions. In accordance with the indenture, we may redeem the senior notes prior to maturity, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the senior notes to be redeemed or the sum of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest in respect of the senior notes to be redeemed (not including any portion of the payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption) discounted to its present value, on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at an adjusted treasury rate plus 45 basis points in the case of the 2012 notes, 45 basis points in the case of the 2014 notes and 50 basis points in the case of the 2019 notes, plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the amount being redeemed to the date of redemption. In addition, if we undergo a change of control and experience a below investment grade rating event, each as defined
 
 
in the senior notes, we may be required to repurchase all of the senior notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the senior notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the senior notes repurchased to the date of repurchase.
As of June 30, 2009, maturities of long-term obligations, including the $1,281 million of debt allocated from parent, for the next five fiscal years and thereafter are as follows:
Future Payments.
 
The estimated fair value of our long-term obligations and other short-term borrowings, including debt allocated to us from Cardinal Health, was $1,217 million and $1,579 million as compared to the carrying amounts of $1,289 million and $1,609 million at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The fair value of our long-term obligations and other short-term borrowings is estimated based on either the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues and the current interest rates offered for debt of the same remaining maturities or estimated discounted cash flows.
NOTE 11. INCOME TAXES
Our income taxes as presented are calculated on a separate tax return basis, although our operations have historically been included in Cardinal Health's U.S. federal and state tax returns or non-U.S. jurisdictions tax returns. Cardinal Health's global tax model has been developed based on its entire portfolio of businesses. Accordingly, our tax results as presented are not necessarily reflective of the results that we would have generated on a stand-alone basis.
With the exception of certain dedicated foreign entities, we do not maintain taxes payable to/from our parent and we are deemed to settle the annual current tax balances immediately with the legal tax paying entities in the respective jurisdictions. These settlements are reflected as changes in Parent Company Investment.
In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109, we account for income taxes using the asset and liability method. The asset and liability method requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for expected future tax consequences of temporary differences that currently exist between tax basis and financial reporting basis of our assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in the respective jurisdictions in which we operate. Deferred taxes are not provided on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside of the United States when it is expected that these earnings are permanently reinvested.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we adopted the provisions of FIN. No. 48. FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109. This standard provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. The cumulative effect of adoption of this interpretation was a $35 million reduction of Parent Company Investment. Of the $35 million reduction in "Parent Company Equity" $18 million is related to discontinued operations.
Income before income taxes is as follows for fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
 
 
 
The provision/(benefit) for taxes consists of the following for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
Provision for Income Taxes.
 
A reconciliation of the provision for taxes based on the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate is as follows for fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
 
As of June 30, 2009 we had $2.0 billion of undistributed earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries that are intended to be permanently reinvested in non-U.S. operations. Because these earnings are considered permanently reinvested, no U.S. tax provision has been accrued related to the repatriation of these earnings. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of U.S. tax that might be payable on the eventual remittance of such earnings.
 
 
Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes. The components of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2009 and 2008 are as follows:
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities in the preceding table, after netting by taxing jurisdiction, are in the following captions in the combined balance sheet at June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
At June 30, 2009, we had gross federal, state and international loss and credit carryforwards of $5 million, $136 million and $39 million, respectively, the tax effect of which is an aggregate deferred tax asset of $23 million. Substantially all of these carryforwards are available for at least three years or have an indefinite carryforward period. The valuation allowance of $6 million at June 30, 2009 applies to certain federal, international, and state and local carryforwards that, in the opinion of management, are more likely than not to expire unutilized. However, to the extent that tax benefits related to these carryforwards are realized in the future, the reduction in the valuation allowance would be applied against income tax expense.
We had $222 million and $122 million of unrecognized tax benefits at June 30, 2009 and July 1, 2008, respectively. Included in the June 30, 2009 and July 1, 2008 balances are $181 million and $88 million, respectively, of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would have an impact on the effective tax rate. The remaining unrecognized tax benefits relate to tax positions for which ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty as to the timing of such deductibility and to tax positions related to acquired companies in the amount of $0 million and $19 million at June 30, 2009 and July 1, 2008, respectively. Recognition of these tax benefits would not affect our effective tax rate. Effective July 1, 2009, we will adopt
Unrecognized Tax Benefits.
 
 
SFAS No. 141(R), which will result in an impact to the effective tax rate for unrecognized tax benefits related to tax positions of acquired companies if recognized after the date of adoption. We include the full amount of unrecognized tax benefits in deferred income taxes and other liabilities in the combined balance sheets. A reconciliation of the unrecognized tax benefits from July 1, 2008 to June 30, 2009, is as follows:
 
We recognize accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. As of June 30, 2009 and July 1, 2008, we had $44 million and $22 million, respectively, accrued for the payment of interest and penalties. These balances are gross amounts before any tax benefits and are included in deferred income taxes and other liabilities in the combined balance sheets. For the year ended June 30, 2009, we recognized $22 million of interest and penalties in the combined statement of income.
Cardinal Health files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various U.S. state jurisdictions and various foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, Cardinal Health is subject to audit by taxing authorities for fiscal years ending June 30, 2001 through the current fiscal year. The IRS currently has ongoing audits of fiscal years 2001 through 2007.
Subsequent to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, Cardinal Health received an IRS Revenue Agent Report for tax years 2003 through 2005, which included new Notices of Proposed Adjustment related to the its transfer pricing arrangements between foreign and domestic subsidiaries, including certain entities included in our combined financial statements, and the transfer of intellectual property among subsidiaries. The amount of additional tax proposed by the IRS in the new notices totals $462 million, excluding penalties and interest which may be significant. We and Cardinal Health disagree with these proposed adjustments and the valuations underlying such adjustments and intend to vigorously contest them.
It is possible that there could be a change in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months due to activities of the IRS or other taxing authorities, including proposed assessments of additional tax, possible settlement of audit issues, or the expiration of applicable statutes of limitations. It is not possible to reasonably estimate the amount of such change in unrecognized tax benefits at this time.
NOTE 12. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
In addition to commitments and obligations in the ordinary course of business, we are subject to various claims, other pending and potential legal actions for damages, investigations relating to governmental laws and regulations and other matters arising out of the normal conduct of our business. We accrue for contingencies related to litigation in accordance with SFAS No. 5, ("SFAS No. 5"), which requires us to assess contingencies to determine the degree of probability and range of possible loss. An estimated loss contingency is accrued in our financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Because litigation is inherently unpredictable and unfavorable resolutions could occur, assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. We regularly review contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. The amount of ultimate loss may differ from these estimates. It is possible that cash flows or results of operations could be materially affected in any particular period by the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these contingencies.
Accounting for Contingencies
One of our subsidiaries CareFusion 303 was a party to , a patent infringement action that was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California on June 16, 2004. The complaint alleged that the Alaris SmartSite family of needle-free valves infringes upon ICU patents. ICU sought monetary damages plus permanent injunctive relief to prevent us from selling SmartSite products. On July 30, 2004, the District Court denied ICU's application for a preliminary injunction finding, among other things, that ICU had failed to show a substantial likelihood of success on the merits. During July and August 2006, the District Court granted summary judgment to us on three of the four patents asserted
ICU Litigation.
ICU Medical, Inc. v. ALARIS Medical Systems, Inc.
 
 
by ICU and issued an order interpreting certain claims in certain patents in a manner that could impair ICU's ability to enforce those patents against us. On January 22, 2007, the District Court granted summary judgment in favor of us on all of ICU's remaining claims and declared certain of their patent claims invalid. The District Court also ordered ICU to pay us approximately $5 million of attorneys' fees and costs. On October 24, 2007, ICU appealed these decisions to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On March 13, 2009, the Court of Appeals affirmed the rulings of the District Court in this matter on all grounds. The Court of Appeals denied ICU's request for a panel rehearing on the issue of attorneys' fees, and ICU subsequently paid us attorney's fees in accordance with the court order.
In February 2009, we and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, amended a Consent Decree for Condemnation and Permanent Injunction, between CareFusion 303, our subsidiary that manufactures and sells infusion pumps in the United States, and the FDA to include all infusion pumps manufactured by or for CareFusion 303. The original Consent Decree and the Consent Decree as amended are referred to hereinafter as the "Consent Decree" and the "Amended Consent Decree", respectively. The Amended Consent Decree was entered by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California on February 23, 2009. The FDA alleged in the Amended Consent Decree that based on a January 2008 inspection, certain of our infusion pumps did not satisfy the standards of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDC Act. Without admitting the allegations contained in the Amended Consent Decree, and in addition to the requirements of the original Consent Decree, we agreed, among other things to: (i) by no later than April 24, 2009, submit a corrective action plan to the FDA to bring Alaris system and all other infusion pumps in use in the U.S. market into compliance with the FDC Act (which was timely submitted); (ii) by no later than June 3, 2009, have an independent expert perform a comprehensive inspection of our infusion pump facilities and certify whether our infusion pump operations are in conformity with the Quality System Regulation and certain other provisions of the FDC Act (which certification was timely submitted to the FDA); and (iii) by no later than June 3, 2009, have an independent recall expert inspect our recall procedures and all ongoing recalls involving our infusion pumps and certify whether the recall procedures are in compliance with the FDC Act and whether we should take any further remedial actions with respect to any recalls involving our infusion pumps (which certification was timely submitted to the FDA). The Amended Consent Decree does not apply to intravenous administration sets and accessories. Furthermore, it does not prohibit us from continuing to manufacture, market and sell infusion pumps (other than the Alaris SE pumps, which were covered under the Consent Decree). The Amended Consent Decree also authorizes the FDA, in the event of any violations in the future, to order us to cease manufacturing and distributing, recall products and take other actions. We may be required to pay damages of $15,000 per day per violation if we fail to comply with any provision of the Amended Consent Decree, up to $15 million per year.
FDA Consent Decree.
The original Consent Decree was entered by the District Court on February 8, 2007. Prior to entering into the Consent Decree, we had initiated a voluntary field corrective action on August 15, 2006, of our Alaris SE pumps as a result of information indicating that the product had a risk of "key bounce" associated with keypad entries that could lead to over-infusion of patients. On August 23, 2006, the United States filed a complaint in the District Court to effect the seizure of Alaris SE pumps and approximately 1,300 units were seized by the FDA. Under the Consent Decree, we were required to, among other things, submit a plan to the FDA outlining corrections for the Alaris SE pumps currently in use by customers and a reconditioning plan for the seized Alaris SE pumps.
Since the time the original Consent Decree and the Amended Consent Decree were entered into, we have been working to satisfy the obligations of the Consent Decree and the Amended Consent Decree. On August 24, 2007, the FDA notified us that we had met the conditions of our reconditioning plan for the Alaris SE pumps that were seized to the FDA's satisfaction. In addition, on October 10, 2008, we notified the FDA that we had satisfied our best efforts obligation to find and remediate Alaris SE pumps in the United States in use by customers. We also had previously engaged an independent expert to inspect the Alaris SE pump facilities and certify the infusion pump operations as required by the Consent Decree. On April 2, 2008, we implemented a new quality system in our infusion pump facilities. On April 24, 2009, the independent expert provided a certification to the FDA indicating that the infusion pump operations are in conformity with the FDC Act, which meets the requirements of the original Consent Decree. On June 2, 2009, the independent expert provided a certification to the FDA on the remainder of the items required by the Amended Consent Decree.
On April 24, 2009, we submitted the corrective action plan required by the Amended Consent Decree to the FDA. Included in the corrective action plan was, among other proposed corrective actions, a software correction that addresses a potential risk recently identified with the Alaris PCA (Patient Controlled Analgesia) module when used with the Alaris PC Unit operating with software versions 8 through 9.1. When the products are used together, the Alaris PCA module may infuse above or below the intended infusion dose if a specific sequence of events occurs. We recorded a reserve of $18 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 based on our estimate of the costs that will be incurred in connection with the corrective action plan. On June 2, 2009, the FDA notified us that the corrective action plan was acceptable and that we should begin implementation of the plan. We had placed a hold on shipping the
Alaris PCA module and related Alaris PC Unit pending 510(k) clearance from the FDA for the software correction. We received 510(k) clearance on July 9, 2009, and we have since resumed shipments.
 
 
We cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter, whether additional amounts will be incurred to resolve this matter, if any, or the matter's ultimate impact on our business. We may be obligated to pay more or less than the amount that we reserved in connection with the Amended Consent Decree and our corrective action plan because, among other things, the cost of implementing the corrective action plan may be different than our current expectations (including as a result of changes in manufacturing, delivery and material costs), the FDA may determine that we are not fully compliant with the Amended Consent Decree or our corrective action plan and therefore impose penalties under the Amended Consent Decree, and/or we may be subject to future proceedings and litigation relating to the matters addressed in the Amended Consent Decree.
In addition to the matters described above, we also become involved in other litigation and regulatory matters incidental to our business, including, but not limited to, product liability claims, employment matters, commercial disputes, intellectual property matters, inclusion as a potentially responsible party for environmental clean-up costs, and litigation in connection with acquisitions and divestitures. We intend to vigorously defend our self against such litigation and do not currently believe that the outcome of any such litigation will have a material adverse effect on our combined financial statements.
Other Matters.
We may also determine that products manufactured or marketed by us do not meet our specifications, published standards or regulatory requirements. When a quality issue is identified, we investigate the issue and take appropriate corrective action, such as withdrawal of the product from the market, correction of the product at the customer location, notice to the customer of revised labeling and other actions. We have recalled, and/or conducted field alerts relating to, certain of our products from time to time. These activities can lead to costs to repair or replace affected products, temporary interruptions in product sales and action by regulators, and can impact reported results of operations. We currently do not believe that these activities (other than those specifically disclosed herein) have had or will have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.
See note 11 for additional discussion of contingencies related to our income taxes.
The future minimum rental payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year at June 30, 2009, are as follows:
Commitments.
 
Rental expense relating to operating leases was approximately $49 million, $46 million and $28 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Sublease rental income was not material for any period presented herein.
NOTE 13. GUARANTEES
In the ordinary course of business, we, from time to time, agree to indemnify certain other parties under agreements with us. These agreements include financial and performance guarantees related to acquisitions and disposition agreements, customer agreements, and intellectual property licensing agreements. Such indemnification obligations vary in scope and, when defined, in duration. In some cases, a maximum obligation is not explicitly stated and therefore the related maximum amount of the liability under such indemnification obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. Where appropriate, such indemnification obligations are recorded as a liability. Historically, we have not, individually or in the aggregate, made payments under these indemnification obligations in any material amounts. In addition, we believe that the likelihood of a material liability being triggered under these indemnification obligations is not significant.
 
 
NOTE 14. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FAIR VALUE MEASURES
As more fully described in note 1, we are exposed to market risks arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We manage these risks by entering into derivative financial instruments.
The following table summarizes the fair value of our assets and liabilities related to derivative financial instruments, and the respective line items in which they were recorded in the combined balance sheets as of June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to protect the value of anticipated foreign currency revenues and expenses associated with certain forecasted transactions. These derivative instruments are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. Accordingly, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instrument is reported as a component of other comprehensive income ("OCI") and reclassified into earnings in the same line item associated with the forecasted transaction and in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instrument is recognized in earnings immediately. The cash flow impact of fair value hedges is included in the combined statements of cash flows in "Other Accrued Liabilities and Operating Items, Net".
Cash Flow Hedges.
At June 30, 2009 and 2008, we held forward contracts to hedge probable, but not firmly committed, revenue and expenses. The principal currencies hedged are the Canadian dollar, European euro, Mexican peso, British pound, and Australian dollar.
The following table summarizes the outstanding cash flow hedges as of June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
The following table summarizes the unrealized loss included in OCI for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
 
 
 
Included within the OCI balance at June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are $(2) million, $(5) million and $(2) million, respectively, associated with discontinued operations.
The following table summarizes the gain/(loss) reclassified from accumulated OCI into earnings for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
 
The amount of ineffectiveness associated with these derivative instruments was not material.
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to manage foreign exchange exposure related to intercompany financing transactions and other balance sheet items subject to revaluation that do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting treatment. Accordingly, these derivative instruments are adjusted to current market value at the end of each period. The gain or loss recorded on these instruments is substantially offset by the remeasurement adjustment on the foreign currency denominated asset or liability. The settlement of the derivative instrument and the remeasurement adjustment on the foreign currency denominated asset or liability are both recorded in the combined statements of income in "Interest Expense and Other, Net" at the end of each period. The cash flow impact of fair value hedges is included in the combined statements of cash flows in "Other Accrued Liabilities and Operating Items, Net".
Fair Value (Non-Designated) Hedges.
The following table summarizes the economic derivative instruments outstanding as of June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
The following table summarizes the loss recognized in earnings for economic derivative instruments for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
 
The following is a summary of the fair value loss on our derivative instruments, based upon the estimated amount that we would pay to terminate the contracts as of June 30, 2009 and 2008. The fair values are based on quoted market prices for the same or similar instruments.
 
Amounts deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at June 30, 2009, that are expected to be reclassified into earnings during the next twelve months represent an after-tax loss of $4 million. The amount expected to be reclassified into earnings during the next twelve months includes unrealized gains and losses related to open foreign currency contracts. Accordingly, the amounts that are ultimately reclassified into earnings may differ materially.
 
 
As more fully described in note 1, we adopted the provision of SFAS No. 157 effective July 1, 2008. SFAS No. 157 establishes a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value. This hierarchy requires entities to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The three levels of inputs used to measure fair values are as follows:
Fair Value Measurements.
 
 
 
The following table presents information about our financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at June 30, 2009, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques we utilize to determine such fair value:
 
The cash equivalents balance is comprised of highly liquid investments purchased with a maturity of three months or less. The other investments balance includes investments in mutual funds classified as trading securities and investments in Cardinal Health stock classified as equity, all related to our deferred compensation plan.
The fair value of our foreign currency forwards were determined based on the present value of expected future cash flows considering the risks involved, including nonperformance risk, and using discount rates appropriate for the respective maturities.
NOTE 15. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND PARENT COMPANY EQUITY
During the periods presented, we participated in a number of corporate-wide programs administered by Cardinal Health. These programs include, but are not limited to, participation in Cardinal Health domestic cash management system, insurance programs, employee benefit programs, worker's compensation programs, and tax planning services. The following is a discussion of the relationship with Cardinal Health, the services they provided and how they have been accounted for in our financial statements.
The combined financial statements include expense allocations for certain functions provided by Cardinal Health, including, but not limited to, general corporate expenses related to finance, legal, information technology, human resources, communications, ethics and compliance, shared services, employee benefits and incentives, and stock-based compensation. These expenses have been allocated to us on the basis of direct usage when identifiable, with the remainder allocated on the basis of revenue, headcount or other appropriate measure. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we were allocated $406 million, $407 million and $428 million, respectively, of general corporate expenses incurred by Cardinal Health which is included within SG&A expenses in the combined statements of income. Included within the $406 million, $407 million and $428 million of SG&A expenses allocated to us from Cardinal Health for the years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are $21 million, $23 million and $23 million allocable to discontinued operations.
Allocation of General Corporate Expenses.
The expense allocations have been determined on a basis that both we and Cardinal Health consider to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided or the benefit received by us during the periods presented. The allocations may not, however, reflect the expense we would have incurred as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented. Actual costs that may have been incurred if we had been a stand-alone company would depend on a number of factors, including the chosen organization structure, what functions were outsourced or performed by employees and strategic decisions made in areas such as information technology and infrastructure.
 
 
We sell certain medical products and supplies through the medical distribution business of Cardinal Health. We recognize product revenue on sales through the medical distribution business of Cardinal Health primarily when title transfers to the end customer, which is typically upon receipt by the end customer. Our product revenue related to these sales totaled $958 million, $933 million and $836 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Included within the $958 million, $933 million and $836 million related to these sales for the years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are $417 million, $407 million and $385 million associated with discontinued operations. Inventory associated with these sales held in Cardinal Health distribution centers was $93 million and $99 million at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Included within the $93 million, and $99 million of the inventory associated with these sales as of June 30, 2009, and 2008 is $38 million, and $29 million associated with discontinued operations. Accounts receivable associated with these customer sales is maintained by Cardinal Health. The amount of accounts receivable allocated to us was $129 million and $133 million at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Included within the $129 million, and $133 million of accounts receivable allocated to us as of June 30, 2009, and 2008 is $47 million, and $47 million associated with discontinued operations.
Related Party Sales.
Net transfers (to)/from parent are included within Parent Company Investment on the combined statements of parent company equity. The components of the net transfers (to)/from parent as of June 30, 2009, 2008, and 2007 are as follows:
Parent Company Equity.
 
During fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, Cardinal Health paid royalties to us under various royalty agreements. Amounts outstanding under these agreements are considered settled for cash in the combined financial statements at the end of each reporting period and, as such, are included in Parent Company Investment. As a result of the separation from Cardinal Health, we no longer receive royalty income from these agreements, as the intellectual property underlying the royalty income remained with Cardinal Health.
Historically, we have participated in Cardinal Health's centralized approach to U.S. domestic cash management and financing of its operations, excluding debt directly incurred by any of its businesses, such as debt assumed in an acquisition or certain capital lease obligations. The majority of our domestic cash is transferred to Cardinal Health daily and Cardinal Health funds our operating and investing activities as needed. Following the separation from Cardinal Health, which occurred on August 31, 2009, we became responsible for our own cash management and will no longer receive cash from Cardinal Health to fund our operating or investing needs.
Historically, a portion of Cardinal Health's consolidated debt has been allocated to us based on the debt levels consistent with an investment grade credit rating, including amounts directly incurred. Net interest expense has been allocated in the same proportions as debt and includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges. Total debt allocated to us from Cardinal Health at June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008, was $1,281 million (including $129 million current portion), and $1,597 million (including $63 million current portion), respectively. For fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, Cardinal Health has allocated to us net interest expense of $80 million, $88 million and $72 million, respectively. Post separation, we became responsible for our financing arrangements and no longer receive a debt allocation from Cardinal Health.
We believe the allocation basis for debt and net interest expense is reasonable based on the debt levels consistent with an investment grade credit rating for us. However, these amounts may not be indicative of the actual amounts that we would have incurred had we been operating as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented.
 
 
The combined financial statements also include the push down of certain assets and liabilities that have historically been held at the Cardinal Health corporate level but which are specifically identifiable or otherwise allocable to us. The cash and cash equivalents held by Cardinal Health at the corporate level were not allocated to us for any of the periods presented. Cash and equivalents in our combined balance sheets primarily represent cash held locally by international entities included in our combined financial statements. Transfers of cash to and from Cardinal Health's domestic cash management system are reflected as a component of "Parent Company Investment" on the combined balance sheets. Cardinal Health maintains self-insurance programs at a corporate level. We were allocated a portion of the accrued liability and expenses associated with these programs as part of the liability push down from Cardinal Health general corporate overhead expenses.
All significant intercompany transactions between us and Cardinal Health have been included in these combined financial statements and are considered to be effectively settled for cash in the combined financial statements at the time the transaction is recorded. The total net effect of the settlement of these intercompany transactions is reflected in the combined statements of cash flow as a financing activity and in the combined balance sheets as Parent Company Investment.
NOTE 16. SEGMENT INFORMATION
Our operations are principally managed on a products and services basis and are comprised of two reportable segments: Critical Care Technologies and Medical Technologies and Services.
In accordance with SFAS No. 131, ("SFAS No. 131"), we report segment information based on the management approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by the Chief Operating Decision Maker, or the CODM, for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. The CODM is our Chief Executive Officer. The CODM allocates resources to and assesses the performance of each operating segment using information about its revenues and operating income/(loss) before interest and taxes. We have determined our operating segments as follows based on the information used by the CODM.
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information
Our dispensing technologies, infusion and respiratory operating segments are aggregated into the Critical Care Technologies segment. This segment develops, manufactures and markets IV medication products, including IV infusion systems, primarily to hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers and transport services. It also provides point-of-care systems that automate the dispensing of medications and supplies in hospitals and other healthcare facilities. Finally, it develops, manufactures and markets products for diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary and sleep-related disorders primarily to hospitals, clinics, private physicians and research centers.
Critical Care Technologies.
In accordance with SFAS No. 131, we determined the three operating segments within Critical Care Technologies qualify for aggregation based on the criteria that: (i) aggregation is consistent with the objective and basic principles of SFAS No. 131; (ii) the operating segments have similar economic characteristics; and (iii) the segments have similar basic characteristics in each of the following areas: the nature of the products or services, the nature of the production process, the type or class of customer for their products or services, the methods used to distribute their products or provide their services and the nature of the regulatory environment.
This segment provides single-use medical products used in surgical and vascular access procedures to hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers and other healthcare settings. It also develops, manufactures and markets reusable stainless-steel surgical instruments and a variety of medical devices used primarily by interventional radiologists and surgeons in combination with certain image guidance technologies primarily to hospitals. Finally, it develops, manufactures and markets a line of neurological and vascular diagnostic and monitoring products to hospitals and other healthcare facilities such as private practice and outpatient clinics, ambulatory surgery centers and physician offices. After the spinoff, Cardinal Health retained certain lines of business that manufactured and sold surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the U.S. markets, which were previously a component of the Medical Technologies and Services segment of CareFusion.
Medical Technologies and Services.
We evaluate the performance of the segments based upon, among other things, segment profit. Segment profit is segment revenue less segment cost of products sold, SG&A expenses, research and development expenses and restructuring and acquisition integration charges. With the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate assets by operating segment; accordingly, segment related disclosures with respect to assets have been omitted.
 
 
The following table presents information about our reporting segments for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
 
 
 
 
The following table presents revenue and net property and equipment by geographic area:
 
NOTE 17. PRODUCT WARRANTIES
We offer warranties on certain products for various periods of time. We accrue for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. Our product warranty liability reflects management's best estimate of probable liability based on current and historical product sales data and warranty costs incurred.
 
 
The table below summarizes the changes in the carrying amount of the liability for product warranties for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
 
As of June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately $19 million, $18 million and $14 million, respectively, of net product recall charges are included in product warranties costs.
NOTE 18. EMPLOYEE EQUITY AND SAVINGS PLANS
Cardinal Health maintains several stock incentive plans (collectively, the "Plans") for the benefit of certain of its officers, directors and employees, including our employees. The following disclosures represent our portion of the Plans maintained by Cardinal Health in which our employees participated. Under the Plans, Cardinal Health is authorized to grant up to 29.8 million shares as of June 30, 2009, of which 16.1 million shares have been granted. A combination of new shares and treasury shares are utilized for issuance of awards under the Plans. All awards granted under the Plans consist of Cardinal Health common shares; accordingly, the amounts presented are not necessarily indicative of future performance and do not necessarily reflect the results that we would have experienced as an independent, publicly-traded company for the periods presented. We will maintain our own equity compensation plans after the separation.
The compensation expense recognized for all equity-based awards is net of estimated forfeitures and is recognized using the straight-line method over the awards' service period. In accordance with SAB No. 107, ("SAB No. 107"), we classify equity-based compensation within SG&A expense to correspond with the same line item as the majority of the cash compensation paid to employees. Total pre-tax compensation expense for the plans described below was approximately $56 million, $54 million and $68 million for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and the income tax benefit related to the share-based compensation expense was $22 million, $19 million and $27 million for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At June 30, 2009, there was $44 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested share-based compensation expense granted under the Plans. That unrecognized compensation expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2 years.
Share-Based Payment
Employee options granted under the Plans during fiscal 2009 and 2008, generally vest in equal annual installments over three years and are exercisable for periods up to seven years from the date of grant at a price equal to the fair market value of the Cardinal Health common shares underlying the option at the date of grant. Employee options granted under the Plans during fiscal 2007, generally vest in equal annual installments over four years and are exercisable for periods up to seven years from the date of grant at a price equal to the fair market value of the Cardinal Health common shares underlying the option at the date of grant.
Stock Options.
 
 
The following table summarizes all stock option transactions for our employees under the Plans for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009:
 
The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, was approximately $7 million, $22 million and $30 million, respectively. We received no proceeds from stock options exercised, as the shares underlying the options are Cardinal Health common shares.
The fair values of the options granted to our employees and directors during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, were estimated on the date of grant using a lattice valuation model. The lattice valuation model incorporates ranges of assumptions that are disclosed in the table below. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve at the time of the grant. Cardinal Health analyzed historical data to estimate option exercise behaviors and employee terminations to be used within the lattice model. Separate option valuations were calculated for three separate groups of employees. The groups were determined using similar historical exercise behaviors. The expected life of the options granted was calculated from the option valuation model and represents the length of time in years that the options granted are expected to be outstanding. The range of expected lives in the table below results from the separate groups of employees identified by Cardinal Health based on their option exercise behaviors. Expected volatilities are based on implied volatility from traded options on Cardinal Health common shares and historical volatility over a period of time commensurate with the contractual term of the option grant (7 years). The following table provides the range of assumptions used for options valued during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007:
 
Employee restricted stock and restricted stock units ("restricted stock awards") granted under the Plans during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, generally vest in equal installments over three years and entitle holders to dividends or cash dividend equivalents. Restricted stock awards that were awarded after August 1, 2006, accrue dividends or cash dividend equivalents that are payable upon vesting of the awards. The fair values of restricted stock awards are determined by the number of shares granted and the grant date market price of Cardinal Health common shares. The weighted-average grant date fair values of restricted stock awards granted for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, was $52.58, $66.57 and $66.56, respectively. Restricted stock and restricted stock units are expensed over the awards' service period, generally three years.
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units.
 
 
The following table summarizes all activity related to restricted stock and restricted stock units during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009:
 
Cardinal Health has employee stock purchase plans under which the sale of 12.0 million common shares had been authorized at June 30, 2008. In November 2008, an additional 5.0 million common shares were authorized under the employee stock purchase plans, bringing the total authorization to 17.0 million shares. Generally, employees, including our employees, who have been employed by Cardinal Health for at least 30 days may be eligible to contribute from 1% to 15% of eligible compensation. The purchase price is determined by the lower of 85% of the closing market price on the first day of the offering period or 85% of the closing market price on the last day of the offering period. During any given calendar year, there are two offering periods: January 1  June 30; and July 1  December 31. At June 30, 2009, total subscriptions of 0.7 million shares under the Cardinal Plans were outstanding. Through June 30, 2009, 7.4 million shares had been issued to Cardinal and our employees under the plans. Following the separation, we will not participate in this program nor maintain our own employee stock purchase plan.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Substantially all of Cardinal Health's domestic non-union employees, including our employees, are eligible to be enrolled in company-sponsored contributory profit sharing and retirement savings plans, which include features under Section 401(k) of the Code and provide for company matching and profit sharing contributions. Contributions to the plans are determined by Cardinal Health's board of directors subject to certain minimum requirements as specified in the plans. The total expense allocated to us for employee retirement benefit plans was $32 million, $29 million and $24 million for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Employee Savings Plan.
NOTE 19. OFF-BALANCE SHEET TRANSACTIONS
We periodically participate in certain off-balance sheet arrangements, primarily receivable sales, in order to maximize diversification of funding and return on assets. The receivable sales, as described below, also provide for the transfer of credit risk to third parties.
During the periods presented certain entities included in our combined financial statements had agreements to transfer ownership of certain equipment lease receivables, plus security interests in the related equipment, to the leasing subsidiary of a bank. In order to qualify for sale treatment under SFAS No. 140, ("SFAS No. 140"), Cardinal Health formed wholly-owned, special purpose, bankruptcy-remote subsidiaries, or the SPEs, and each of the SPEs formed wholly-owned, qualified special purpose subsidiaries, or the QSPEs, to effectuate the removal of the lease receivables from Cardinal Health's consolidated financial statements. In accordance with SFAS No. 140, Cardinal Health consolidates the SPEs and does not consolidate the QSPEs. As such, the SPEs are included in our combined financial statements. Both the SPEs and QSPEs were separate legal entities that maintained separate financial statements from us and Cardinal Health. The assets of the SPEs and QSPEs were available first and foremost to satisfy the claims of their respective creditors.
Lease Receivable-Related Arrangements.
Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities  a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125
During fiscal 2009, Cardinal Health terminated its receivable sale program and no receivables were sold under this program as of June 30, 2009. The original sale of the receivables was executed prior to fiscal 2006; however, we retained servicer responsibilities for the participating interest in the defined pools. The amount of the receivables sold under this program was $4 million and $47 million at the end of fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. Upon termination of the program the remaining receivable balance was deducted from a reserve account that was held by the QSPE.
 
 
Our net cash outflow related to lease receivable interest transfers for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, are as follows:
Cash Flows from Lease Receivable-Related Arrangements.
 
Prior to termination of the program, we were required to repurchase any lease receivables or interests sold if it was determined the representations and warranties with regard to the related lease receivables were not accurate on the date sold.
NOTE 20. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
The following is selected quarterly financial data for fiscal 2009 and 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 21. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On August 31, 2009, CareFusion completed the spinoff from Cardinal Health. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health contributed the majority of the business comprising its clinical and medical products segment to us, and distributed approximately 81% of our outstanding common stock, or approximately 179.8 million shares, to its shareholders, based on a distribution ratio of 0.5 shares of our common stock for each common share of Cardinal Health held on the record date of August 25, 2009. Cardinal Health retained approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock, or approximately 41.4 million shares, in connection with the spinoff. As a condition to the separation, Cardinal Health is required to dispose of the remaining 19% of our common stock within five years of the distribution date. Shareholders received a cash payment for fractional shares they would otherwise have received, after making appropriate deductions for any required tax withholdings.
In connection with the spinoff, on August 31, 2009, we made a one-time payment of approximately $1.4 billion to Cardinal Health, which was funded with the new senior notes as described in note 10. CareFusion did not acquire any of the allocated debt from Cardinal Health in connection with the spinoff.
In these financial statements for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and as of June 30, 2009 and 2008, we describe the businesses contributed to us by Cardinal Health in the spinoff as if the contribution were our businesses for all historical periods described. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health retained certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the U.S. markets that were historically managed by us and, prior to the distribution, were part of the clinical and medical products businesses of Cardinal Health. These lines of businesses are included in these CareFusion financial statements, primarily in the medical technologies and services segment, and presented as discontinued operations.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.4
SUPPLEMENTAL QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
The following table presents unaudited quarterly financial data for CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") for each of the quarters in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. As set forth in the Form 8-K of which this Exhibit 99.4 forms a part (this "Form 8-K"), on August 31, 2009, Cardinal Health, Inc. ("Cardinal Health") completed the spinoff of the Company through a pro rata distribution to Cardinal Health shareholders of approximately 81% of the Company's outstanding common stock. In connection with the spinoff, Cardinal Health retained certain lines of business that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the U.S. markets and that were historically managed by the Company prior to the spinoff, which were part of the clinical and medical products businesses of Cardinal Health. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, these businesses were reported in the Company's financial statements on an as-managed basis. In connection with the spinoff, effective as of August 31, 2009, these businesses have been reclassified by the Company as a discontinued operation.
In addition, as disclosed in CareFusion's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2009, the Company committed to a plan to dispose its Audiology business during the quarter ended September 30, 2009, and subsequently sold the business on October 1, 2009. As a result, this business has been reclassified by the Company as a discontinued operation. The unaudited quarterly financial data presented in the following table reflects the reclassification of these businesses as discontinued operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


