FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20101201204457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 1, 2010, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release in which the Company announced that James Hinrichs would replace Edward Borkowski as the Company's Chief Financial Officer, effective immediately. Mr. Borkowski will remain with the Company through December 31, 2010 (the "Departure Date") to assist with the orderly transition of responsibilities. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
James Hinrichs, age 43, has served as the Company's Senior Vice President, Global Customer Support, since January 2010. From January 2009 through January 2010, Mr. Hinrichs was the Company's Senior Vice President, Controller, a position he assumed leading up to the Company's spinoff from Cardinal Health, Inc. Mr. Hinrichs joined Cardinal Health in 2004 as Vice President, Investor Relations, and since then served in several financial leadership positions, including as Chief Financial Officer of the former Clinical Technologies and Services, Healthcare Supply Chain Services, and Clinical and Medical Products segments. From 2007 to 2008, Mr. Hinrichs also served as Controller for Cardinal Health. Before joining Cardinal Health, Mr. Hinrichs spent 12 years in a variety of finance and marketing positions at Merck & Co.
On November 29, 2010, the Company entered into an offer letter (the "Offer Letter") with Mr. Hinrichs with respect to his employment as Chief Financial Officer. The Offer Letter provides for an annual base salary of $515,000 and a target annual bonus incentive under the Company's Management Incentive Plan ("MIP") of 80% of his base salary. In addition, Mr. Hinrichs will be granted stock options ("Sign-On Options") with a total value of $1.5 million, which will vest in annual installments of 33
 1
/
3
% on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant date, provided that Mr. Hinrichs is employed with the Company on the applicable vesting date. In the event the Company terminates his employment without cause or if Mr. Hinrichs terminates his employment with good reason on or before 18 months after the date on which the Company's Board of Directors appoints an external candidate as new Chief Executive Officer of the Company, Mr. Hinrichs will be entitled to (i) accrued and unpaid base salary through the termination date; (ii) a prorated MIP bonus payment for the year in which the termination occurs, (iii) a severance payment equal to the sum of (A) one times his annual base salary plus (B) one times his two-year average actual MIP bonus payment and (iv) a cash payment of $500,000. In addition, upon such a termination, to the extent not previously vested based on service prior to termination of employment, the first 33
 1
/
3
% of the shares subject to the Sign-On Options will become fully vested and exercisable effective as of the date of termination of employment, and any vested Sign-On Options will remain exercisable for 90 days after termination of employment. In the event his employment is terminated after such date, Mr. Hinrichs will be entitled to accrued and unpaid base salary through the termination date and any severance payments provided for under the Company's severance guidelines as in effect on the termination date. The Offer Letter also provides that Mr. Hinrichs will be eligible for an annual long-term incentive grant in fiscal 2012, and the target expected value will be 450% of his base salary, or $2,317,500.
On December 1, 2010, the Company entered into a severance agreement (the "Severance Agreement") with Mr. Borkowski with respect to the terms of his severance. Pursuant to Mr. Borkowski's employment letter, dated May 11, 2009 (the "Employment Letter"), Mr. Borkowski would be entitled to receive severance equal to 1.9x his annual base salary and full and immediate vesting of his sign-on equity awards granted on June 15, 2009, if he was terminated without cause prior to May 26, 2012. The Severance Agreement provides for the payment of the severance required by the Employment Letter and certain additional benefits in exchange for Mr. Borkowski's agreement to assist in an orderly transition of responsibilities, provide a general release of claims and certain other covenants. The severance payment under the Employment Letter was intended to provide Mr. Borkowski with severance equal to his annual base salary plus his MIP target, which is 90% of his base salary. Pursuant to the Severance Agreement, we agreed to pay Mr. Borkowski his annual base salary plus the average of his actual MIP bonus payment for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 and his MIP target for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2011. In addition, Mr. Borkowski will be paid his MIP target bonus for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2011, at the time fiscal 2011 MIP bonuses are paid to active employees. In the aggregate, these severance amounts will result in the payment of $1,867,000 to Mr. Borkowski. In addition, with respect to stock options previously granted to Mr. Borkowski and that are vested as of the Departure Date, he shall have the right to exercise such options for a period of 24 months following the Departure Date. In accordance with the Employment Letter, Mr. Borkowski will also be eligible to receive twelve months of COBRA at Company subsidized rates for medical, dental and vision benefits.
Copies of the Offer Letter and the Severance Agreement are filed with this report as Exhibit 99.2 and Exhibit 99.3, respectively. The Company has previously filed the Employment Letter with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The foregoing descriptions of the terms of the Offer Letter, Severance Agreement and Employment Letter are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text thereof, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 CareFusion Corp. (NYSE: CFN), a leading, global medical device company, announced today that James F. Hinrichs has been promoted to chief financial officer, replacing Edward Borkowski who will leave the company at the end of the month.
SAN DIEGO, Dec. 1, 2010
As the former CFO of Cardinal Health's Clinical and Medical Products segment, Hinrichs, 43, led the CareFusion financial organization prior to the hiring of Borkowski in May 2009 and continued as controller until he was named senior vice president of Global Customer Support in January. The Cardinal Health Clinical and Medical Products segment became the foundation of CareFusion following its spinoff on Sept. 1, 2009.
"Jim is a seasoned leader that helped guide us through the spinoff and served as our external financial voice prior to Ed joining the company," said David L. Schlotterbeck, chairman and CEO of CareFusion. "He is already known by many of our investors and analysts, and has strong support from his new team and our board.
"I also want to thank Ed for the leadership he brought to CareFusion during an important time leading up to the spinoff and during our first year as a public company. My retirement plans and a decision made by our board to pursue candidates other than Ed for my replacement prompted his departure and Jim's promotion."
The company announced plans for Schlotterbeck's retirement on Nov. 2. He will continue in his role until Feb. 28, 2011, by which time the board intends to name a successor.
"Following Dave's decision to retire and the board's decision to pursue other candidates for his replacement, the timing is right for me to transition from CareFusion," said Borkowski. "I want to thank Dave and the employees of CareFusion for their support as we launched the company and set ourselves on a path for growth."
Prior to his role as CFO of the Clinical and Medical Products segment of Cardinal Health, Hinrichs served as executive vice president and controller of Cardinal Health and the CFO of Cardinal Health's Healthcare Supply Chain Services segment, at the time a multinational business generating annual revenues in excess of $80 billion. He joined Cardinal Health in February 2004 following 12 years of finance and marketing roles at Merck & Co. He holds undergraduate and graduate degrees in Business from Carnegie Mellon University.
About CareFusion Corporation
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve patient care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris IV pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AirLife, AVEA and LTV series of ventilators and respiratory products, ChloraPrep skin prep products, MedMined services for infection surveillance, V. Mueller and Snowden-Pencer surgical instruments and NeuroCare diagnostic products. CareFusion employs more than 15,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
www.carefusion.com

Exhibit 99.2
 
November 29, 2010
Mr. James Hinrichs
Dear Jim:
It is with great pleasure that I confirm in writing the terms and conditions of your promotion, effective November 29, 2010 (the "").
Effective Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) your accrued but unpaid Base Salary through the termination date;
(b) consistent with the Company's current Severance Guidelines: (i) a prorated MIP Bonus for the year in which the termination occurs, and (ii) severance payments equal to the sum of (A) one times (1X) your Base Salary for the year in which your employment terminates (without regard to any reduction that gives rise to Good Reason) plus (B) one times (1X) your two-year average actual MIP Bonus (or target MIP Bonus, if the actual MIP Bonus is indeterminable) for the fiscal year during which your employment terminates and the immediately preceding fiscal year, payable over 12 months in accordance with normal payroll practices, beginning after your termination of employment;
(c) A cash payment in an amount equal to $500,000, payable over the same period as the payments specified in paragraph 7(b); and
(d) To the extent not previously vested based on service prior to termination of employment, the first one-third of the Sign-on Options will become fully vested and exercisable effective as of the date of termination of employment, and any vested Sign-on Options will remain exercisable for 90 days after termination of employment.
The severance payments listed above are conditioned on your execution and nonrevocation of a general release of claims, substantially in the form attached as . Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the period during which you have discretion to execute or revoke the release straddles two calendar years, then any severance payments shall be made or begin in the second of the two calendar years, regardless of which calendar year you actually deliver the executed release to the Company.
Exhibit A
"" means any act of fraud or intentional misrepresentation or embezzlement, misappropriation or conversion of assets of the Company or any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by the Company, or any entity in which the Company has a significant ownership interest as determined by the Committee (an ""), or your intentional and/or repeated violation of the written policies or procedures of the Company or its Affiliates. A termination of employment will be deemed to be for Cause if, after such termination of employment, facts and circumstances are discovered that would have justified, in the opinion of the Committee, a termination of employment for Cause.
Cause
Affiliate
"" means the occurrence of any of the following without your consent: (i) a material diminution in your Base Salary; (ii) a material diminution in your authority, duties, or responsibilities (including a requirement that you report to someone other than the Company's Chief Executive Officer); or (iii) relocation of your principal workplace to a location that is more than 50 miles away. No "Good Reason" exists unless (i) you notify the Company in writing within 60 days after the initial existence of any condition listed above, and the Company fails to cure the condition within 60 days after receiving notice, and (ii) you terminate employment by no later than 150 days after the initial existence of any condition listed above.
Good Reason
Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent required to avoid tax penalties to you under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, some or all of the installments that would otherwise be payable during the first six months following the date of your separation from service shall be accumulated (without interest) and paid with the first installment due at least six months after the date of your separation from service. For this purpose, your separation from service will occur on the date your employment termination is effective, provided that if you are continuing to provide services to the Company after that date, your separation from service will be the first date after which your level of service is no longer greater than 20% of the average level of services performed by you for the Company for the period of 36 months before the separation (or the actual period of service before the separation, if less). For purposes of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, any right to a series of installment payments under this letter will be treated as a right to a series of separate payments.
 
 
 
 
Jim, you may have some follow-up questions once you have had the opportunity to review the details of this offer. If you have any questions, please feel free to call me. I very much look forward to your continued service to our organization and the opportunity we will have to continue to work together in the future.
 
I accept the above offer of employment:
 
EXHIBIT A
This RELEASE AGREEMENT by and between CareFusion Corporation (the "") and (the "") is dated as of the day of , (the "").
Company
            
Executive
    
            
            
Release
Release
Executive hereby releases the Company and any of its predecessors, successors or assigns to all or any part of its businesses ("") by execution of this Release from any and all claims and causes of action that may exist, whether known or unknown, as of the date of Executive's execution of this Release with the exception of any unemployment compensation claim Executive may have and any other claims that cannot be waived by law. Executive agrees that this Release applies to all officers, directors, employees and other representatives of CareFusion and its affiliates and any of its predecessors, successors or assigns to all or any part of its businesses including the Company, both individually and in their respective capacities (collectively with CareFusion, the ""). This Release relates to all causes of action to the extent permitted by law, including, but not limited to, claims under CareFusion's policies or practices; federal and state fair employment practices or discrimination laws; laws pertaining to breach of employment contract or wrongful termination; age discrimination claims under the Age Discrimination and Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. Section 621 et seq., the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, 38 U.S.C. Section 4301 et seq.; the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. Section 2101 et seq. and any applicable state laws of similar intent.
CareFusion
Releasees
In addition, Executive agrees that Executive will not initiate, bring, or prosecute any suit, action or grievance against any of the Releasees for any released claim in any federal, state, county or municipal court, or any arbitral forum, except as specifically stated below. Executive further agree that if Executive does so, Executive will be liable for the payment of all damages and costs, including attorneys' fees, incurred by any of the Releasees in connection with Executive's suit, action, or grievance. Executive also waives any right to any relief sought in connection with such claims, including any right to damages, attorneys' fees, costs, and all other legal or equitable relief.
This Release and agreement not to sue does not prohibit Executive from pursuing a lawsuit, claim, or charge to challenge the validity or enforceability of this Release under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("") or the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act (""), nor does it render Executive liable for damages or costs, including attorneys' fees, incurred by the Releasees in connection with a lawsuit, claim, or charge to challenge the validity or enforceability of this Release under the ADEA or the OWBPA. This Release and agreement not to sue also does not prohibit the Executive from filing charges with government agencies or participating in any investigation resulting from such charges. However, under this Release, Executive agrees not to accept any monetary or personal relief or remedy, including but not limited to back pay, front pay, or reinstatement, that may be awarded to Executive in connection with such charges. In addition, this general release is not intended to bar any claims for workers' compensation benefits.
ADEA
OWBPA
This Release does not apply to any claims arising after Executive's execution of this Release or any claims relating to rights under the Employment Agreement by and between CareFusion Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and the Executive, dated as of the day of , , as may be amended from time to time.
    
                    
            
Complete Release
Executive also expressly agrees that Executive has read, understands, and intends to waive any and all rights or benefits described in Section 1542 of the California Civil Code, which provides as follows:
"A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor."
Thus, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1542, and for the express purpose of implementing a full and complete release and discharge of CareFusion and any of its predecessors, successors or assigns to all or any part of its businesses, Executive expressly acknowledge that this Release is intended to include within its effect, without limitation, all claims Executive does not know or suspect to exist in Executive's favor at the time of execution of this Release, and this Release contemplates the extinguishment of any such claim(s).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and the Company has caused this Release to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
EXHIBIT B
This Confidentiality and Business Protection Agreement ("") is hereby entered into by and among James Hinrichs ("Executive"), CareFusion Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), effective as of November 29, 2010 (the "").
Agreement
Company
Effective Date
It is hereby agreed as follows:
1. . By executing this Agreement, the Executive agrees to abide by the following restrictive covenants for the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on the last day of the 24-month period after the date of termination of employment for any reason (the "") as consideration for the payments provided under the employment letter between the parties, dated November 29, 2010 (the ""), and acknowledges that the provisions and covenants contained in this Agreement are ancillary and material to the terms of the Employment Letter and that the limitations contained herein are reasonable in geographic and temporal scope and do not impose a greater restriction or restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill and other legitimate business interests of the Company. The Executive also acknowledges and agrees that the provisions of this Agreement do not adversely affect the Executive's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate the covenants contained herein. The Executive also acknowledges that before the Executive shall be determined to have breached any provision or covenant contained in this Agreement, the Executive shall have been given notice of any such alleged breach and been given 45 days after receipt of such notice of such breach to cure or remedy any such breach that is reasonably susceptible of cure or remedy.
Consideration and Acknowledgements
Restricted Period
Employment Letter
2. . The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company and all of its subsidiaries, partnerships, joint ventures, limited liability companies, and other affiliates (the ""), all secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the CareFusion Group and its businesses (including, without limitation, any proprietary and not publicly available information concerning any processes, methods, trade secrets, intellectual property, research secret data, costs, names of users or purchasers of their respective products or services, business methods, operating or manufacturing procedures, or programs or methods of promotion and sale) that the Executive has obtained or obtains during the Executive's employment by the CareFusion Group and that is not public knowledge (other than as a result of the Executive's violation of this Section 2) (""). The Executive shall not communicate, divulge or disseminate Confidential Information at any time during or after the Executive's employment and/or service as a consultant with the CareFusion Group, except with prior written consent of a corporate officer of Company, or as otherwise required by law or legal process. All records, files, memoranda, reports, customer lists, drawings, plans, documents and the like that the Executive uses, prepares or comes into contact with during the course of the Executive's employment shall remain the sole property of the Company and/or the CareFusion Group, as applicable, and shall be turned over to the applicable CareFusion Group company upon termination of the Executive's employment.
Confidential Information
CareFusion Group
Confidential Information
3. . During the Executive's employment with the CareFusion Group and for the Restricted Period, the Executive shall not (i) solicit, participate in, or promote the solicitation of any person who was employed by the CareFusion Group at any time during the six-month period before the Executive's termination of employment to leave the employ of CareFusion Group; or (ii) on behalf of the Executive or any other person, hire, employ, or engage any such person. The Executive further agrees that, during the Executive's employment with the CareFusion Group and for the Restricted Period, if an employee of the CareFusion Group contacts the Executive about prospective employment, the Executive will inform that employee that the Executive cannot discuss the matter further without informing the CareFusion Group.
Non-Recruitment of CareFusion Group Employees, Etc
4. . The Executive acknowledges and agrees that Company's customers and any information regarding Company's customers is confidential and constitutes trade secrets. In recognition of the confidential and trade secret nature of information regarding Company's customers, the Executive agrees that during the Restricted Period, the Executive shall not (either directly or indirectly or as an officer, agent, employee, partner or director of any other company, partnership or entity) solicit on behalf of any competitor of the CareFusion Group the business of (i) any customer of the CareFusion Group at the time of the Executive's employment or date of termination of employment, or (ii) any potential customer of the CareFusion Group which the Executive knew to be an identified, prospective purchaser of services or products of the CareFusion Group.
Non-Solicitation of Business
5. .
No Disparagement
(a) The Executive shall at all times refrain from taking actions or making statements, written or oral, that denigrate, disparage or defame the goodwill or reputation of the CareFusion Group or any of its trustees, officers, security holders, partners, agents or former or current employees and directors. The Executive further agrees not to make any negative statement to third parties relating to the Executive's employment or any aspect of the businesses of CareFusion Group and not to make any statements to third parties about the circumstances of the termination of the Executive's employment, or about the CareFusion Group or its trustees, directors, officer, security holders, partners, agents or former or current employees and directors, except as may be required by a court or government body.
(b) The Executive further agrees that, following termination of employment for any reason, the Executive shall assist and cooperate with the Company with regard to any matter or project in which the Executive was involved during the Executive's employment with the Company, including but not limited to any litigation that may be pending or arise after such termination of employment. Further, the Executive agrees to notify the Company at the earliest reasonable opportunity of any contact that is made by any third parties concerning any such matter or project. The Company shall not unreasonably request such cooperation of the Executive and shall cooperate with the Executive in scheduling any assistance by the Executive taking into account the Executive's business and personal affairs and shall compensate the Executive for any lost wages or expenses associated with such cooperation and assistance.
6. . All plans, discoveries and improvements, whether patentable or unpatentable, made or devised by the Executive, whether alone or jointly with others, from the date of the Executive's initial employment by the Company and continuing until the end of any period during which the Executive is employed by the CareFusion Group, relating or pertaining in any way to the Executive's employment with or the business of the CareFusion Group (each, an ""), shall be promptly disclosed in writing to the Secretary of the Company and are hereby transferred to and shall redound to the benefit of the Company and shall become and remain its sole and exclusive property. The Executive agrees to execute any assignment to the Company or its nominee, of the Executive's entire right, title and interest in and to any Invention and to execute any other instruments and documents requisite or desirable in applying for and obtaining patents, trademarks or copyrights, at the expense of the Company, with respect thereto in the United States and in all foreign countries, that may be required by the Company. The Executive further agrees, during and after the Restricted Period, to cooperate to the extent and in the manner required by the Company, in the prosecution or defense of any patent or copyright claims or any litigation, or other proceeding involving any trade secrets, processes, discoveries or improvements covered by this covenant, but all necessary expenses thereof shall be paid by the Company. This Section 6 does not apply to an Invention which qualifies fully as a nonassignable invention under the provisions of section 2870 of the California Labor Code. The Executive acknowledges that a condition for an Invention to qualify fully as a nonassignable invention under the provisions of Section 2870 of the California Labor Code is that the Invention must be protected under patent laws. The Executive has reviewed the notification in Appendix B (the "") and agrees that his or her signature acknowledges receipt of the notification. However, the Executive agrees to disclose promptly in writing to Company all innovations (including Inventions) conceived, reduced to practice, created, derived, developed, or made by the Executive during the term of employment and for three months thereafter, whether or not the Executive believes such innovations are subject to this Section 6, to permit a determination by Company as to whether or not the innovations should be the property of Company. Any such information will be received in confidence by Company.
Inventions
Invention
Limited Exclusion Notification
7. . The Executive acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purpose of the foregoing covenants is to protect the goodwill, trade secrets and other Confidential Information of the Company; (ii) because of the nature of the business in which the CareFusion Group is engaged and because of the nature of the Confidential Information to which the Executive has access, the Company would suffer irreparable harm and it would be impractical and excessively difficult to determine the actual damages of the CareFusion Group in the event the Executive breached any of the covenants of this Section 7; and (iii) remedies at law (such as monetary damages) for any breach of the Executive's obligations under this Section 7 would be inadequate. The Executive therefore agrees and consents that (X) if the Executive commits any breach of a covenant under this Section 7 during the Restricted Period, all unpaid severance benefits will be immediately forfeited, and (Y) if the Executive commits any breach of a covenant under this Section 7 or threatens to commit any such breach at any time, the Company shall have the right (in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other right or that may be available to it) to temporary and permanent injunctive relief from a court of competent jurisdiction, without posting any bond or other security and without the necessity of proof of actual damage.
Acknowledgement and Enforcement
8. . The Executive may be or become subject to covenants contained in other agreements (including but limited to stock option and restricted stock unit agreements) which are similar to those contained in this Section 8. Further, a breach of the covenants contained in this Section 8 may have implications under the terms of such other agreements, including but not limited to a forfeiture of equity awards and long-term cash compensation. The Executive acknowledges the foregoing and understands that the covenants contained in this Section 8 are in addition to, and not in substitution of, the similar covenants contained in any such other agreements.
Similar Covenants in Other Agreements Unaffected
9. . All rights under this Agreement are personal to the Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Executive other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal representative. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns. The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform the obligations set forth in this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent as the Company would be required to do.
Successors
10. . This Agreement and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto shall be governed by the substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of the State of California, or by U.S. federal law.
Governing Law
11. . In the event that any provision of this Agreement is declared to be illegal, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be reformed, if possible, to the extent necessary to render it legal, valid and enforceable, or otherwise deleted, and the remainder of the terms of this Agreement shall not be affected except to the extent necessary to reform or delete such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision.
Severability
12. . The Company and the Executive agree to attempt to resolve any dispute between them quickly and fairly. Any dispute related to this Agreement which remains unresolved shall be resolved exclusively by final and binding arbitration conducted within 50 miles of San Diego, California, pursuant to the then-current rules of the American Arbitration Association with respect to employment disputes. The Company shall bear any and all costs of the arbitration process plus, if the Executive substantially prevails on all issues raised, any attorneys' fees incurred by the Executive with regard to such arbitration.
Arbitration
13. . Notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered or when mailed by United States certified mail, return receipt requested, or by overnight courier, postage prepaid, to the Company at its corporate headquarters address, to the attention of the Secretary of the Company, or to the Executive at the home address most recently communicated by the Executive to the Company in writing.
Notices
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name and on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
December 1, 2010
Edward Borkowski
Subject:                
Severance Agreement
Dear Mr. Borkowski:
The purpose of this Severance Agreement ("") is to confirm the understanding and agreement by and between CareFusion Corporation and all of its subsidiaries, affiliates and related companies (collectively referred to as "" or the ""), and you (referred to as "") concerning your departure from CareFusion.
Agreement
CareFusion
Company
You
 
Your at-will employment relationship with the Company will terminate on December 31, 2010 (""). You will continue as a full-time employee through your Separation Date.
Separation Date
During the period prior to your Separation Date, we expect that You will be available to provide services as requested and cooperate with the Company to ensure a smooth transition with respect to your job responsibilities and any ongoing business matters.
The Company will continue to pay your regular base salary payments and provide employee benefits from the date of this letter through the Separation Date.
On your Separation Date, You will be paid any earned but unused Paid Time Off (PTO) as of that date, in addition to receiving your final paycheck.
 
Your medical, dental, vision, life, AD&D and disability insurance will end on your Separation Date. However, You are eligible to continue medical, dental, and vision health benefits under the Employee Group Benefit Plan (the "") pursuant to applicable federal COBRA guidelines for up to 18 months. If You have questions regarding your COBRA coverage, You may contact Hewitt directly at (877) 236-5236.
Group Plan
Please refer to the attachment to this Agreement for more detail.
2010 Employee Benefits after Termination of Employment
 
Following the Separation Date and conditioned upon CareFusion's receipt of a release in the form attached to this Agreement as (the ""), executed by You on or after the Separation Date and delivered to the Company by no later than January 7, 2011, without revocation or modification, CareFusion will provide You with the following (collectively, the ""):
Exhibit A
Release
Severance Benefits
(a) cash severance payment in a total amount equal to $1,345,000 (which amount is equal to your annual base salary of $580,000 and $765,000, which is the average of your FY '10 MIP bonus and your FY '11 target MIP bonus), of which $281,000 will be payable to You 30 days after your Separation Date, $532,000 will be payable to You on the Company's first regular payroll date following June 30, 2011, and the remaining $532,000 of which will be payable to You in equal installments on the Company's regular payroll dates over the six (6) month period beginning on July 1, 2011,
(b) $522,000, which is equal to your FY '11 target MIP bonus, payable in a lump sum at the time FY '11 MIP bonuses are paid to active employees,
(c) your "Initial Equity Grants" (as defined in your offer letter, dated May 11, 2009), to the extent unvested, will become vested and exercisable,
(d) a lump sum cash payment equal to $56,194.50, which is the second of two installments relating to the reimbursement of your relocation expenses, payable in accordance with the terms of your relocation agreement,
(e) You will have no obligation to repay your sign-on bonus of $500,000 or any relocation expense reimbursed or scheduled to be reimbursed by the Company under the terms of its relocation program, and
(f) should You elect to continue your Group Plan health coverage through COBRA, CareFusion will pay a portion of the cost of COBRA coverage for twelve (12) months in the same proportion as it shared such costs with You during your employment with CareFusion, less any health assessment or tobacco credit You were receiving as an active employee. Your billing statement will be adjusted to reflect the cost sharing rate. The portion of the cost of coverage paid by CareFusion will be included as taxable income to You.
You acknowledge that the Severance Benefits are over and above any benefits to which You otherwise are entitled. The Severance Benefits shall be in lieu of any severance or similar payments that otherwise might be payable under your offer letter, dated May 11, 2009, the Company's severance guidelines, and any plan, policy, or agreement sponsored by the Company that provides severance benefits to employees upon termination of employment.
 
You are fully vested in any money you have personally contributed to your plan account and in any Company matching contributions.
If You have any questions regarding your 401(k) account, please contact the CareFusion Financial Plans Service Center at (800) 835-5095.
 
Following the Separation Date and CareFusion's timely receipt of the Release without revocation or modification, CareFusion will provide You with 24 months to exercise your CareFusion vested stock options, including stock options that you received as part of your Initial Equity Grants. All other terms and conditions in each grant award, including the non-compete, non-solicitation and other covenants, will remain in full force and effect.
You can exercise CareFusion options, if applicable by visiting www.ubs.com/onesource/cfn, or You can call UBS at (877) 236-5208. Also, unless otherwise provided for in your award agreement, any unvested stock options or restricted stock, if any, will be cancelled on the Separation Date.
 
The Company's agreement to provide the Severance Benefits is further contingent on and subject to your agreement to: (a) before the Separation Date, continue to conduct your activities in a professional manner and to cooperate with CareFusion, its subsidiaries, affiliates and related companies in all reasonable ways to achieve a smooth transition and resolution to any open items on which You were working; and (b) return any Company property in your possession including, but not limited to, proprietary and confidential information, laptop computers, blackberries or other pda devices, cell phones, memory cards, all credit cards, office or warehouse keys, supplies or equipment, all Company documents, computer files and all copies thereof.
 
You agree and understand that You are responsible for the payment of all outstanding balances and charges incurred by You on the American Express Corporate Card. You represent that You will fully disclose all charges made to such account and You hereby agree and authorize the Company to pay all current charges, plus any additional charges that may be posted to this account, and to deduct such payment from any and all payments that You may be due from the Company including, but not limited to, any expense reimbursements You may have requested, any bonus check or other payment by the Company to You, and any severance payment or salary continuation payable to You (with any deduction from any amounts that are considered deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (""), being limited to $5,000).
Section 409A
In the event that the amount due to American Express exceeds the amount payable by the Company to You or which may be withheld or deducted by the Company, You agree to forward such additional payment to American Express within twenty (20) days of the final billing statement. You further agree to hold the Company harmless for any amounts paid by the Company to American Express and to reimburse the Company for any payment to American Express that exceeds any amount or payment that may be payable to You by the Company or that may be withheld or deducted by the Company. You further agree to submit all outstanding expense reports with appropriate supporting receipts for reimbursement to my attention within twenty (20) days of your Separation Date.
 
You agree that for twenty-four (24) months after your Separation Date, You will not, without CareFusion's prior written consent, directly or indirectly: solicit, recruit, induce or otherwise encourage CareFusion employees, contractors or anyone else providing services to CareFusion to end their employment or business relationship with CareFusion or to engage in any competitive business.
 
In consideration for the Severance Benefits and other benefits You are receiving, You agree to fully cooperate with and assist CareFusion, its subsidiaries, affiliates and related companies and their respective representatives and attorneys as reasonably requested with respect to any matters, claims, actions, disputes, litigation or arbitrations, internal or government investigations or other dispute resolutions by being available to provide affidavits, interviews, depositions and/or testimony in regard to any matters in which You are or have been involved or with respect to which You have relevant information. CareFusion will reimburse You for reasonable expenses You may incur in connection with providing such cooperation. Any such reimbursement will be made promptly, but by no later than the end of the calendar year after the calendar year in which the expense was incurred, provided documentation of the expense is provided by You to CareFusion within ten business days before that date. You further agree that should You be contacted (directly or indirectly) by any person or entity regarding any matters described above pertaining to CareFusion, You shall promptly notify the CareFusion Legal Department in writing, addressed to 3750 Torrey View Court, San Diego, CA 92130.
Nothing in this Agreement is intended to: (a) limit your ability to respond truthfully to inquiries from, or otherwise cooperate with, any governmental or regulatory investigation concerning facts or events that arose during the period of your employment with CareFusion; or (b) create any obligation on your part to inform the Company about the fact or substance of any communications You may have with any governmental authorities in connection with any pending and/or future actions.
 
You agree not to disparage, defame or otherwise detrimentally comment upon CareFusion, including its business practices, products, or services, except as may be required by law. The Company agrees not to disparage, defame or otherwise detrimentally comment upon You, including your employment with the Company or the circumstances surrounding your termination of employment, except as may be required by law and except for any factually accurate statement deemed advisable on the opinion of counsel to protect the Company. Each party acknowledges that any breach of these non-disparagement obligations shall cause serious damage to the other party.
 
You agree that this Agreement will not supersede any existing Non-Disclosure Agreement(s) or any other agreements or restrictive covenants executed by You or to which You are subject relating to non-solicitation, non-competition, confidentiality and/or CareFusion's proprietary information or intellectual property.
 
You agree and represent that You have been advised of and fully understand your right to discuss all aspects of this Agreement with counsel of your choice. Your execution of this Agreement establishes that, if You wish the advice of counsel, You have done so by the date You signed the Agreement.
 
All payments hereunder are subject to withholding of Federal, State, Local and employment taxes. CareFusion makes no representation as to the Federal, State or Local tax treatment of any payments promised herein. You are solely responsible for any income taxes, excise taxes or other taxes arising from any payments made to You or others on your behalf (including offsets) and CareFusion will not reimburse You for such taxes nor "gross up" any payments so as to produce any particular result for you net of taxes. CareFusion may withhold amounts for Federal, State and Local taxes as required by applicable law. CareFusion will report all payments hereunder to the proper tax authorities in accordance with its determination as to its reporting obligation, and no such determination made in good faith shall give rise to any liability to You. In signing this Agreement You affirm that You have not relied on any representations made by CareFusion with respect to the taxation of any payments. For purposes of Section 409A, each installment payment under the Agreement shall be treated as a separate payment. "Separation Date" or words of similar import as used in this Agreement mean, for purposes of any payments to be made under this Agreement that are payments of "deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A, your "separation from service" which for purposes of this Agreement shall mean a reasonably anticipated reduction of the level of bona fide services to a level that is less than 50% of the average level of services You provided in the immediately preceding 36 months. To the extent that any portion of the Severance Benefits constitutes deferred compensation subject to Section 409A, some portion of the amount payable may have to be delayed and paid on the first business day that is at least six months after your Separation Date. The Company will separately notify you if this restriction is applicable to your Severance Benefits.
 
You acknowledge and agree that CareFusion's agreement to provide Severance Benefits under this Agreement is expressly contingent upon your full compliance with the provisions of this Agreement and any other agreements, if any, between You and CareFusion. If You do not execute or revoke the Release or if You violate any provision in this Agreement or any other agreements between You and the CareFusion, CareFusion will cease to have any obligation to provide any Severance Benefits, and You will be required to repay to CareFusion the amount of any Severance Benefits that have been provided.
 
You and anyone who succeeds to your rights and responsibilities are bound by this Agreement and this Agreement will accrue to the benefit of and may be enforced by CareFusion, its subsidiaries, affiliates and related companies and their successors and assigns.
 
You agree that the validity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or unenforceability of any remaining provisions.
 
You acknowledge that You do not, and have not, relied upon any representation or statement not set forth herein made by CareFusion or any representative or agent thereof. The parties acknowledge that this Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the matters set forth herein.
18. Amendment; No Admission; Governing Law
This Agreement may be amended or waived if, and only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and signed by the parties to this Agreement. It is not, and shall not, be interpreted or construed as an admission or indication that the Company has engaged in any wrongful or unlawful conduct of any kind.
You agree that all questions concerning the intention, validity or meaning of this Agreement shall be construed and resolved according to the laws of the State of California. You also designate the federal and state courts of San Diego, California as the courts of competent jurisdiction and venue for any actions or proceedings related to this Agreement, and hereby irrevocably consent to such designation, jurisdiction and venue.
I believe the foregoing accurately reflects the terms of your separation from CareFusion, and ask that You sign an extra copy of this letter and return it to me to confirm your agreement.
Sincerely,
CAREFUSION
 
Agreed to:
 
EXHIBIT A
This RELEASE AGREEMENT by and between CareFusion Corporation (the "") and Edward Borkowski (the "") is dated as of the day of , (the "").
Company
Executive
    
                    
            
Release
Release
Executive hereby releases the Company and any of its predecessors, successors or assigns to all or any part of its businesses ("") by execution of this Release from any and all claims and causes of action that may exist, whether known or unknown, as of the date of Executive's execution of this Release with the exception of any unemployment compensation claim Executive may have and any other claims that cannot be waived by law. Executive agrees that this Release applies to all officers, directors, employees and other representatives of CareFusion and its affiliates and any of its predecessors, successors or assigns to all or any part of its businesses including the Company, both individually and in their respective capacities (collectively with CareFusion, the ""). This Release relates to all causes of action to the extent permitted by law, including, but not limited to, claims under the offer letter, dated May 11, 2009, between Executive and CareFusion, CareFusion's policies or practices; federal and state fair employment practices or discrimination laws; laws pertaining to breach of employment contract or wrongful termination; age discrimination claims under the Age Discrimination and Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. Section 621 et seq., the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, 38 U.S.C. Section 4301 et seq.; the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. Section 2101 et seq. and any applicable state laws of similar intent.
CareFusion
Releasees
In addition, Executive agrees that Executive will not initiate, bring, or prosecute any suit, action or grievance against any of the Releasees for any released claim in any federal, state, county or municipal court, or any arbitral forum, except as specifically stated below. Executive further agree that if Executive does so, Executive will be liable for the payment of all damages and costs, including attorneys' fees, incurred by any of the Releasees in connection with Executive's suit, action, or grievance. Executive also waives any right to any relief sought in connection with such claims, including any right to damages, attorneys' fees, costs, and all other legal or equitable relief.
This Release and agreement not to sue does not prohibit Executive from pursuing a lawsuit, claim, or charge to challenge the validity or enforceability of this Release under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("") or the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act (""), nor does it render Executive liable for damages or costs, including attorneys' fees, incurred by the Releasees in connection with a lawsuit, claim, or charge to challenge the validity or enforceability of this Release under the ADEA or the OWBPA. This Release and agreement not to sue also does not prohibit the Executive from filing charges with government agencies or participating in any investigation resulting from such charges. However, under this Release, Executive agrees not to accept any monetary or personal relief or remedy, including but not limited to back pay, front pay, or reinstatement, that may be awarded to Executive in connection with such charges. In addition, this general release is not intended to bar any claims for workers' compensation benefits.
ADEA
OWBPA
This Release does not apply to any claims arising after Executive's execution of this Release or any claims relating to rights under the Severance Agreement, dated December 1, 2010, between Executive and CareFusion (the ""), or any rights Executive may or may not have for indemnification under CareFusion's Amended and Restated By-Laws, Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, or any indemnification agreement, or any rights as an insured under CareFusion's D&O insurance policies, as in effect from time to time.
Severance Agreement
Complete Release
Executive also expressly agrees that Executive has read, understands, and intends to waive any and all rights or benefits described in Section 1542 of the California Civil Code, which provides as follows:
"A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor."
Thus, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1542, and for the express purpose of implementing a full and complete release and discharge of CareFusion and any of its predecessors, successors or assigns to all or any part of its businesses, Executive expressly acknowledge that this Release is intended to include within its effect, without limitation, all claims Executive does not know or suspect to exist in Executive's favor at the time of execution of this Release, and this Release contemplates the extinguishment of any such claim(s).
Review of Release
Executive agrees and represents that Executive has been advised of and fully understand the right to discuss all aspects of this Release with counsel of Executive's choice. Executive's execution of this Release establishes that, if Executive wishes the advice of counsel, Executive has sought such advice by the date Executive signed this Release, and that Executive was given at least 21 days to consider whether or not to sign. Executive may sign this Release before the end of the 21-day period and Executive agrees that if Executive decides to shorten this time period for signing, Executive's decision was knowing and voluntary. Executive agrees that a change to the Severance Agreement, whether material or immaterial, does not restart the running of said period.
Executive will have 7 days from the date that Executive signs this Release to revoke the Release and to change Executive's mind, in which case this Release shall be ineffective and of no legal force. If Executive so revokes this Release, there will be no obligation on the part of CareFusion to provide Executive with any of the severance benefits described in the Severance Agreement and Executive agrees to repay to CareFusion any such severance benefits previously paid or provided to Executive.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and the Company has caused this Release to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.
 


