FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20101102071059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 2, 2010, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release (the "News Release") announcing its results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. A copy of the News Release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 to this report.
 
On November 2, 2010, the Company issued a news release in which the Company reported that David L. Schlotterbeck, the Company's Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, announced his plans to retire. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.4 to this report.
The Company reported that Mr. Schlotterbeck announced his intention to retire from his positions with the Company, effective as of February 28, 2011 (the "Retirement Date"). Until then, Mr. Schlotterbeck will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board and as Chief Executive Officer of the Company. In connection with Mr. Schlotterbeck's retirement, the Board approved a retirement agreement with Mr. Schlotterbeck (the "Retirement Agreement"), which the parties executed on November 1, 2010. The Retirement Agreement provides that Mr. Schlotterbeck's Employment Agreement, dated as of August 31, 2009, with the Company (the "Employment Agreement"), will remain in full force and effect through the Retirement Date.
Upon Mr. Schlotterbeck's retirement, pursuant to the terms of the Company's management incentive plan ("MIP"), Mr. Schlotterbeck will be entitled to receive a pro-rata bonus payment under the MIP, calculated based on the actual achievement of the Company's performance objectives for fiscal year 2011 and paid in a lump sum at the same time such bonus payments are paid to other senior executives of the Company. As Mr. Schlotterbeck meets the eligibility requirements for retirement under the terms of the Company's 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP"), in general, his rights to stock options and restricted stock units granted pursuant to the LTIP are vested, provided, however, that the awards will only become exercisable or payable, as the case may be, in accordance with their original vesting schedules. Each of his stock options will also remain exercisable for the remaining life of the option. In addition, due to his retirement eligibility, his rights to outstanding performance stock units granted under the LTIP are vested, provided that the shares subject to such awards will only be delivered based on actual results achieved.
Pursuant to the Retirement Agreement, the Company agreed to accelerate the vesting of the retention equity awards granted to Mr. Schlotterbeck on September 15, 2009. The retention equity awards, consisting of 299,447 stock options and 96,572 restricted stock units that would otherwise vest on August 31, 2012, will now vest in full upon the Retirement Date. However, as provided in the Employment Agreement, the retention awards will continue to become exercisable in the case of stock options, or payable in the case of restricted stock units, in accordance with the original terms of the awards in substantially equal amounts on August 31 in each of 2012, 2013 and 2014, and all retention equity awards that are stock options shall remain exercisable for the remaining life of the option. The Retirement Agreement also provides that the Company will pay the premiums for COBRA continuation coverage for Mr. Schlotterbeck and his eligible dependents for up to 18 months following the Retirement Date.
In addition, the Retirement Agreement confirms that Mr. Schlotterbeck will be entitled to the benefits set forth in the Retention Agreement, dated August 31, 2004, as amended, with the Company's subsidiary CareFusion 303, Inc. (formerly ALARIS Medical Systems, Inc.) (the "Retention Agreement"). Under the terms of the Retention Agreement, Mr. Schlotterbeck will be entitled to a severance payment equal to his annual base salary and a deferred bonus of approximately $3 million, which was earned by Mr. Schlotterbeck in June 2006 and is payable to him six months and one day following the effective date of his retirement.
Mr. Schlotterbeck will continue to be bound by the covenants included in the Employment Agreement, including with respect to confidential information, non-recruitment of employees, non-solicitation of business, employment by competitors, non-disparagement and assignment of inventions, for a period of two years following the Retirement Date. Also, as a condition to receiving certain benefits provided him under the Retirement Agreement, Mr. Schlotterbeck agreed to execute general releases of claims against the Company and its affiliates.
A copy of the Retirement Agreement is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.5. The Company has previously filed the Employment Agreement and the Retention Agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The foregoing descriptions of the agreements with Mr. Schlotterbeck are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of these agreements, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 8:00 a.m. EDT on November 2, 2010, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will discuss the Company's results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. The slide presentation for the conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
CareFusion News  Q1 FY11 Results
Page 1 of 8
3750 Torrey View Ct
San Diego, CA 92130
www.CareFusion.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 CareFusion Corp. (NYSE: CFN), a leading, global medical device company, today reported results for the three months ended Sept. 30, 2010.
SAN DIEGO, Nov. 2, 2010
"Our adjusted EPS results for the first quarter were in line with our expectations, and highlighted a strong quarter for our Infusion, Dispensing, Infection Prevention and Medical Specialties businesses," said David Schlotterbeck, chairman and CEO of CareFusion. "In the first quarter we essentially overcame $60 million in prior year benefits from sales related to H1N1 and our Alaris System ship hold release, despite lower than expected Respiratory revenue.
"Today, we are reaffirming our full-year adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance of $1.58 to $1.68, an increase of 11 to 18 percent over fiscal 2010, and revenue growth of mid single digits on a reported basis."
First Quarter Results
CareFusion's reported results compare to the three month period ended Sept. 30, 2009.
The company reported revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 of $908 million, compared to $923 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, a decrease of 2 percent on a reported basis or less than 1 percent on a constant currency basis after adjusting for a $7 million unfavorable foreign currency impact. The year-over-year decline was driven primarily by lower sales in the company's International Surgical Products and Respiratory businesses.
Operating income decreased to $82 million from $117 million. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating income for the first quarter decreased to $122 million from $134 million.
Operating expenses, including selling, general and administrative (SG&A), research and development (R&D) and restructuring and acquisition integration charges in the first quarter totaled $358 million, or 39 percent of total revenue. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating expenses in the first quarter totaled $318 million, or 35 percent of total revenue. Adjusted SG&A expenses were $278 million and R&D investments totaled $40 million.
 
CareFusion News  Q1 FY11 Results
Page 2 of 8
 
The company reported net income in the first quarter of $38 million, or $0.17 per diluted share. Adjusted net income was $67 million, or $0.30 per diluted share, and the adjusted tax rate was 31.7 percent for the first quarter.
Summary of Segment Results
Critical Care Technologies
Revenue for the Critical Care Technologies segment totaled $617 million, and was flat on a reported basis and increased 1 percent on a constant currency basis compared to the prior year period. Segment revenues in the quarter were driven by an increase in the company's Infusion product sales, which included core Infusion growth and a contribution from the company's May 2010 acquisition of Medegen. The increase in Infusion sales was primarily offset by decreases in the company's Respiratory product line revenues. Respiratory sales were negatively impacted by a weak post H1N1 environment that drove lower capital and consumable sales both in the U.S. and internationally as declines in hospital admissions and a lighter flu season drove softer demand and utilization than expected.
Segment profit decreased 30 percent to $71 million. Adjusted segment profit decreased 11 percent to $100 million, primarily due to strong Infusion and Respiratory results in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, which had benefited from an increase in Infusion revenues and earnings following the release of the ship hold on our Alaris System in July 2009 and increased Respiratory revenues and earnings related to H1N1.
Medical Technologies and Services
Revenue for the Medical Technologies and Services segment decreased 5 percent to $291 million, or a 3 percent decrease on a constant currency basis, driven by decreased sales in the company's International Surgical Products business, which was negatively impacted by foreign currency rates during the current year quarter, and the loss of revenue from the company's Research Services business that was divested in May 2010. Partially offsetting this decline were increased sales from the company's Infection Prevention and Medical Specialties businesses.
Segment profit decreased 31 percent to $11 million. Adjusted segment profit was flat at $22 million, based on growth in the company's Infection Prevention business, which offset the year-over-year decline in currency and the loss of income from the Research Services divestiture.
Adjusted operating expenses, adjusted SG&A expenses, adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, adjusted diluted earnings per share and adjusted segment profit are non-GAAP financial measures and exclude restructuring and acquisition integration charges, nonrecurring spinoff related costs, nonrecurring tax items and discontinued operations. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is included later in this news release.
Fiscal 2011 Outlook
The company today reaffirmed its fiscal 2011 guidance of adjusted diluted earnings per share in the range of $1.58 to $1.68 and revenue growth of mid single digits over fiscal 2010 revenues of $3.9 billion. The company continues to expect approximately 60 percent of earnings to come in the second half of fiscal 2011.
 
CareFusion News  Q1 FY11 Results
Page 3 of 8
 
The guidance is based on an assumed diluted weighted average outstanding share count of approximately 225 million.
Conference Call
CareFusion will host a conference call today at 8 a.m. EDT to discuss earnings results for the first quarter fiscal 2011.
To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, visit the Investor Relations page at . Log on at least 15 minutes before the call begins to register and download or install any necessary audio software.
www.carefusion.com
Investors and other interested parties may also access the call by dialing (800) 259-0251 within the U.S. or (617) 614-3671 from outside the U.S., and use the access code 51516225. A replay of the conference call will be available from 11 a.m. EDT on Nov. 2 through 11:59 p.m. EDT on Nov. 9 and can be accessed by dialing (888) 286-8010 in the U.S. or (617) 801-6888 Internationally and using the access code 20505011.
About CareFusion Corporation
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve patient care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris IV pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AirLife, AVEA and LTV series of ventilators and respiratory products, ChloraPrep skin prep products, MedMined services for infection surveillance, V. Mueller and Snowden-Pencer surgical instruments and NeuroCare diagnostic products. CareFusion employs more than 15,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
www.carefusion.com
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures by CareFusion Corporation
This CareFusion news release presents the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted operating expenses", "adjusted SG&A expenses", "adjusted operating income", "adjusted net income", "adjusted diluted earnings per share" and "adjusted segment profit". The most directly comparable measure for these non-GAAP financial measures are operating expenses, SG&A expenses, operating income, net income, diluted earnings per share and segment profit. The company has included below unaudited adjusted financial information for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2010 and 2009, which present the company's results of operations after excluding restructuring and acquisition integration charges, nonrecurring spinoff related costs, nonrecurring tax items and discontinued operations.
In addition, CareFusion presents the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted diluted earnings per share" on a forward-looking basis. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure for the company is diluted earnings per share. CareFusion is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of this forward-looking non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure, because the company cannot reliably forecast restructuring and acquisition integration costs, and other nonrecurring costs. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact CareFusion's future financial results. A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding CareFusion's financial condition and results of operations is included as Exhibit 99.3 to CareFusion's report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Nov. 2, 2010.
 
CareFusion News  Q1 FY11 Results
Page 4 of 8
 
Cautions Concerning Forward-looking Statements
The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in CareFusion's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: we may be unable to effectively enhance our existing products or introduce and market new products or may fail to keep pace with advances in technology; we are subject to complex and costly regulation; cost containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third-party payers and governmental organizations could adversely affect our sales and profitability; current economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition; we may be unable to realize any benefit from our cost reduction and restructuring efforts and our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected; we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others; defects or failures associated with our products and/or our quality system could lead to the filing of adverse event reports, recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity and could subject us to regulatory actions; we are currently operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA and our failure to comply with the requirements of the amended consent decree may have an adverse effect on our business; and our success depends on our key personnel, and the loss of key personnel or the transition of key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, could disrupt our business. The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein reflect management's views as of Nov. 2, 2010. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, CareFusion undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
CareFusion News  Q1 FY11 Results
Page 5 of 8
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News  Q1 FY11 Results
Page 6 of 8
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News  Q1 FY11 Results
Page 7 of 8
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News  Q1 FY11 Results
Page 8 of 8
 
 
 


 
Exhibit 99.3
In addition to financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), information containing non-GAAP financial measures for CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") was disclosed in the Company's news release (the "News Release") dated November 2, 2010 announcing results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 and in a slide presentation (the "Presentation") that accompanied a conference call held by the Company on November 2, 2010 to discuss the Company's financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 and outlook for its fiscal year ending June 30, 2011. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The Company has provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental metrics to assist readers. Definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures are included in the News Release.
In the News Release and the Presentation, the Company presented the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted operating expenses", "adjusted SG&A expenses", "adjusted operating income", "adjusted net income", "adjusted diluted earnings per share" and "adjusted segment profit". These non-GAAP financial measures exclude restructuring and acquisition integration charges, nonrecurring spinoff related costs, nonrecurring tax items, and additionally in the case of "adjusted net income" and "adjusted diluted earnings per share", the results of discontinued operations. A restructuring activity is a program whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re-alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Restructuring charges are recorded in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 420 "Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations" ("ASC 420"). Under ASC 420, a liability is measured at its fair value and recognized as incurred. One-time spinoff related charges are items, based on Company management judgment, that are incremental expenses directly associated with the spinoff from Cardinal Health and will not recur. Nonrecurring tax items are, based on Company management judgment, one-time tax impacts related to unusual or infrequent transactions not indicative of future operations.
Company management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing healthcare products and services to the healthcare industry, its management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring activities and acquisition integration, nonrecurring items related to the spinoff from Cardinal Health, or nonrecurring tax items. While we may have these types of items and charges in the future, Company management believes that they are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, or in the case of nonrecurring spinoff related costs and nonrecurring tax items, discrete and unusual or infrequent transactions that are not indicative of future operations, and that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
The limitation associated with using these non-GAAP financial measures is that these measures exclude items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using these non-GAAP financial measures in combination with "operating expenses", "SG&A expenses", "operating income", "net income", "diluted earnings per share" and "segment profit" (the most comparable GAAP measures) because these non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measure.

 
Exhibit 99.4
3750 Torrey View Ct
San Diego, CA 92130
www.CareFusion.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 CareFusion Corp. (NYSE: CFN), a leading, global medical device company, announced today that David L. Schlotterbeck, chairman and CEO, will retire on Feb. 28, 2011.
SAN DIEGO, Nov. 2, 2010
"With an experienced leadership team in place and a solid year behind us as a public company, I am confident that I'll leave CareFusion in an excellent position to continue to grow well into the future," Schlotterbeck said. "We established a differentiated vision to lower the cost and improve the safety of health care for generations to come, and have executed against it with an enviable portfolio of industry leading medical devices and services for our customers worldwide. I am proud of the company and our position in the industry as I anticipate this new phase in my life."
As a principle architect of CareFusion's spinoff in 2009 from Cardinal Health, Schlotterbeck established the CareFusion leadership team, oversaw development of its long-range strategic plan and led the company through its first year as a publicly traded entity. Prior to the spinoff, Schlotterbeck served as vice-chairman and CEO of the Clinical and Medical Products segment of Cardinal Health. He joined Cardinal Health following its acquisition of Alaris Medical Systems in 2004, where he served as CEO.
"The board wants to thank Dave for his many contributions to CareFusion," said J. Michael Losh, presiding director of the CareFusion board. "We have a strong succession planning process already underway and the board has formed a special committee to manage the internal and external search for his successor. We will be disciplined and thorough in our approach, and expect to have a new CEO in place prior to Dave's departure in February."
In a separate news release, the company also announced results for the first quarter of its fiscal 2011, where it reaffirmed financial guidance for the year.
About CareFusion Corporation
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve patient care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris IV pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AirLife, AVEA and LTV series of ventilators and respiratory products, ChloraPrep skin prep products, MedMined services for infection surveillance, V. Mueller and Snowden-Pencer surgical instruments and NeuroCare diagnostic products. CareFusion employs more than 15,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
www.carefusion.com

 
Exhibit 99.5
This Retirement Agreement (this "") is between DAVID L. SCHLOTTERBECK (the "") and CAREFUSION CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "").
Agreement
Executive
Company
WHEREAS, the Executive presently serves as the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors (the "") of the Company; and
Board
WHEREAS, the parties have entered into, among other agreements, the Employment Agreement, effective August 31, 2009 (the ""); the Retention Award and Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, dated September 15, 2009, and the Retention Award and Restricted Stock Units Agreement, dated September 15, 2009 (together, the ""); the Retention Agreement, originally entered into with ALARIS Medical Systems, Inc. on August 31, 2004, and assumed by the Company, and as amended most recently on November 26, 2007 (the ""); and other equity awards granted under the CareFusion Corporation 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the ""); and
Employment Agreement
Retention Equity Awards
ALARIS Retention Agreement
Other Equity Awards
WHEREAS, the Executive has indicated that he intends to retire and the parties desire to set forth certain terms and conditions of the Executive's retirement; and
WHEREAS, in consideration of the Executive's agreement to assist the Company in an orderly and timely announcement of his retirement and defer the effective date of his retirement until February 28, 2011 (the "") in order to allow the Company to identify and retain a successor and effect an orderly transition, the Company has agreed to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Retirement Date
CONSEQUENTLY, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained here, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
1. . The Executive hereby retires and resigns as an employee and officer of the Company, Chairman of the Board, and any other position with the Company, effective as of the Retirement Date. The Executive's termination of employment on the Retirement Date shall constitute a voluntary resignation by the Executive under Section 5(d) of the Employment Agreement. Executive is eligible for retirement under the Company's Long-Term-Term Incentive Plan as it applies to his Other Equity Awards.
Executive's Retirement
2. .
Consideration
(a) . The Company agrees to pay Executive the Accrued Obligations as defined in, and pursuant to the applicable terms and conditions, of Section 5(a)(i)(A) of the Employment Agreement.
Accrued Obligations
(b) . The Company agrees to pay Executive (i) the deferred Retention Bonus in accordance with the applicable terms and conditions speci-
ALARIS Retention Agreement
fied in Section 1 of the ALARIS Retention Agreement and (ii) the severance required by Section 1 of the ALARIS Retention Agreement (equal to one year of Executive's current base salary).
(c) . The Company agrees to pay Executive the pro-rata Final Bonus required by Section 6.1 of the CareFusion Corporation Management Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective as of July 1, 2010 (pro-rata annual bonus based on the whole number of days Executive has served through the Retirement Date).
Management Incentive Plan Final Bonus
(d) . The Company shall pay the premiums for COBRA continuation coverage for the Executive and his eligible dependents, if elected by the Executive pursuant to the policies and procedures of the Company, through the earliest of (a) the Executive's eligibility for coverage under a health insurance plan of another employer; (b) Executive's entitlement to Medicare; or (c) eighteen (18) months following the Retirement Date.
Benefits
(e) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the vesting and exercisability provisions of the Retention Equity Awards, if the Executive terminates employment due to retirement on the Retirement Date and complies in full with the terms of this Agreement and the requirements of the Employment Agreement (including but not limited to the covenants in Section 7 of the Employment Agreement as amended pursuant Section 4 of this Agreement), all Retention Equity Awards shall become fully vested as of the Retirement Date, and shall become exercisable in the case of stock options, or paid in the case of restricted stock units, in substantially equal amounts on August 31
Retention Equity Awards
st
in each of 2012, 2013 and 2014 as specified in Sections 3(b)(iii)(C)(1), (2), and (3) of the Employment Agreement, and all Retention Equity Awards that are stock options shall remain exercisable until the "Grant Expiration Date" specified in the Retention Equity Award.
3. . Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to modify, alter or waive any of the terms, conditions, limitations, restrictions or forfeiture provisions of any Other Equity Awards or the applicable award agreements or plans documents with respect thereto. Subject to the foregoing, the parties agree that each of the Executive's outstanding Other Equity Awards that is a stock option shall, to the extent vested, remain exercisable for the entire remaining term and that each of the Executive's outstanding restricted stock units shall be settled, to the extent vested, through the issuance of Company shares on each such award's applicable settlement date.
Terms of Other Equity Awards
4. . The parties agree that the receipt of the consideration specified in Section 2 of this Agreement is contingent on Executive's execution of a release of claims in favor of the Company, in the form attached as to this Agreement.
Release of Claims
Exhibit A
5. .
Covenants
(a) . The parties agree that for purposes of Section 7(d) (Non-Solicitation of Business) and Section 7(e) (Employment by Competitor) of the Employment Agreement that: (1) the term "competitor" or "compete" shall be limited solely to an entity or enterprise that competes with the Company in the following lines of business: (i) medication and supply dispensing; (ii) acute care infusion delivery; (iii) acute and
Non-Solicitation and Employment by Competitor
 
home care ventilation; (iv) vascular and surgical skin preparation; (v) handheld surgical instruments; (vi) neurological diagnostics; and (vii) vetebroplasty and kyphoplasty; and (2) Executive may, with the advance written approval of the Board, serve as a member of the board of directors of another entity which could possibly be considered a competitor (as described in this Section 5(a) of this Agreement), and that such approved service would not constitute competition by the Executive or a violation by the Executive of any restriction on solicitation of Company business.
(b) . The parties agree that the second sentence in Section 7(f)(i) of the Employment Agreement shall be revised to read as follows: "The Executive and the Company further agree not to make negative statements to third parties relating to the Executive's employment or any aspect of the businesses of CareFusion Group and not to make any statements to third parties about the circumstances of the termination of Executive's employment, or about the CareFusion Group or its trustees, directors, officers, security holders, partners, agents or former or current employees and directors, except as may be required by law or deemed advisable on the opinion of counsel to protect either the Executive or the Company."
No Disparagement
6. . During the period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the Retirement Date, in addition to performing his regular duties, the Executive shall provide such assistance as shall be reasonably requested by the Board to identify a qualified successor and effect an orderly transition.
Cooperation
7. . Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, the terms and conditions of the Employment Agreement including but not limited to the indemnification obligations contained in Section 3(c) thereof and Exhibit C (Indemnification Agreement) thereto, the Retention Equity Awards, the Retention Agreement, the Other Equity Awards, and any other agreement between the parties are hereby ratified and confirmed.
Other Agreements
 
 
This Agreement is effective as of the latest date specified below and may be executed in counterparts or via facsimile, each being an original and all of which taken together are to be considered one instrument.
 
 
This EXECUTIVE RELEASE AGREEMENT by and between CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") and David L. Schlotterbeck (the "Executive") is dated as of ______________, the Retirement Date as defined in the Retirement Agreement (the "Release").
Release
Executive hereby releases the Company and any of its predecessors, successors or assigns to all or any part of its businesses ("CareFusion") by execution of this Release from any and all claims and causes of action that may exist, whether known or unknown, as of the date of Executive's execution of this Release with the exception of any unemployment compensation claim Executive may have and any other claims that cannot be waived by law. Executive agrees that this Release applies to all officers, directors, employees and other representatives of CareFusion and its affiliates and any of its predecessors, successors or assigns to all or any part of its businesses including the Company, both individually and in their respective capacities (collectively with CareFusion, "the Releasees"). This Release relates to all causes of action to the extent permitted by law, including, but not limited to, claims under CareFusion's policies or practices; federal and state fair employment practices or discrimination laws; laws pertaining to breach of employment contract or wrongful termination; age discrimination claims under the Age Discrimination and Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. Section 621 et seq., the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, 38 U.S.C. Section 4301 et seq.; the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. Section 2101 et seq. and any applicable state laws of similar intent.
In addition, Executive agrees that Executive will not initiate, bring, or prosecute any suit, action or grievance against any of the Releasees for any released claim in any federal, state, county or municipal court, or any arbitral forum, except as specifically stated below. Executive further agree that if Executive does so, Executive will be liable for the payment of all damages and costs, including attorneys' fees, incurred by any of the Releasees in connection with Executive's suit, action, or grievance. Executive also waives any right to any relief sought in connection with such claims, including any right to damages, attorneys' fees, costs, and all other legal or equitable relief.
This Release and agreement not to sue does not prohibit Executive from pursuing a lawsuit, claim, or charge to challenge the validity or enforceability of this Release under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("ADEA") or the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act ("OWBPA"), nor does it render Executive liable for damages or costs, including attorneys' fees, incurred by the Releasees in connection with a lawsuit, claim, or charge to challenge the validity or enforceability of this Release under the ADEA or the OWBPA. This Release and agreement not to sue also does not prohibit the Executive from filing charges with government agencies or participating in any investigation resulting from such charges. However, under this Release, Executive agrees not to accept any monetary or personal relief or remedy, including but not limited
 
to back pay, front pay, or reinstatement, that may be awarded to Executive in connection with such charges. In addition, this general release is not intended to bar any claims for workers' compensation benefits.
This Release does not apply to any claims arising after Executive's execution of this Release or any claims relating to rights under the Employment Agreement by and between CareFusion Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and the Executive, dated as of August 31, 2009, as may be amended from time to time, or the Retirement Agreement.
Complete Release
Executive also expressly agrees that Executive has read, understands, and intends to waive any and all rights or benefits described in Section 1542 of the California Civil Code, which provides as follows:
A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.
Thus, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1542, and for the express purpose of implementing a full and complete release and discharge of CareFusion and any of its predecessors, successors or assigns to all or any part of its businesses, Executive expressly acknowledge that this Release is intended to include within its effect, without limitation, all claims Executive does not know or suspect to exist in Executive's favor at the time of execution of this Release, and this Release contemplates the extinguishment of any such claim(s).
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and the Company has caused this Release to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 


