FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20101108165939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") held its annual meeting of stockholders on November 3, 2010. The following is a summary of the matters voted on at the meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
Article 1.
Establishment and Purpose.
1.1 . The CareFusion Corporation Management Incentive Plan, as amended and restated herein (the "Plan"), is intended to provide the Company's executive officers and other key Employees with performance based compensation which is not subject to the deduction limitation rules under Section 162(m) of the Code as in effect from time to time. The Plan is a subplan of the 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan. To the extent that the Plan and the 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan conflict, the terms of the 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan control, in accordance with Applicable Law. The Plan shall remain in effect from the Effective Date until terminated by the Board or the Committee.
Establishment of Plan
1.2 . The primary purposes of the Plan are to:
Purpose
(a) Advance the interests of the Company and its stockholders by providing the Company's executive officers and other key Employees with an annual bonus incentive to achieve the strategic objectives of the Company and its subsidiaries;
(b) Focus the Company's executive officers and other key Employees on key measures that drive superior financial and management performance and that result in enhanced value of the Company;
(c) Provide compensation opportunities that are externally competitive and internally consistent with the Company's strategic objectives and total reward strategies; and
(d) Provide bonus opportunities that reward the Company's executive officers and other key Employees who are in positions to make significant contributions to the overall success of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Article 2.
Definitions.
Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when the defined meaning is intended, the term is capitalized:
2.1 "" means the Committee or such other authorized officers of the Company to whom the power to administer the Plan has been properly delegated in accordance with Applicable Law.
Administrator
2.2 "" means the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code applicable to performance based compensation.
Applicable Law
2.3 "" means the cash bonus a Participant may earn under the Plan.
Award
2.4 "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
2.5 "" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and rulings of general applicability issued thereunder as in effect from time to time.
Code
2.6 "" means the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board, or such other committee of Directors appointed by the Board that satisfies the "outside director" requirements set forth in Section 162(m) of the Code.
Committee
 
2.7 "" means CareFusion Corporation, or any successor thereto.
Company
2.8 "" means any Participant who is, or who is determined by the Committee to be likely to become, a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Covered Employee
2.9 "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the long term disability plan maintained by the Participant's employer at the time that the determination regarding Disability is made hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a payment under this Plan is subject to Code Section 409A, "Disability" has the meaning ascribed to such term under that Code section.
Disability
2.10 "" means a Participant's base pay or salary earned and paid for the Performance Period or portion thereof in which the Employee was an eligible Participant in the Plan.
Earned Salary
2.11 "" of the Plan is July 1, 2010.
Effective Date
2.12 "" means a regular, active employee of the Company or of any subsidiary of the Company. Directors who are not employed by the Company shall not be considered Employees under the Plan, nor shall independent contractors, leased employees, consultants or anyone else designated as not eligible to participate in the Plan by the Administrator.
Employee
2.13 "" means the actual bonus, if any, earned during a Performance Period by a Participant, as determined by the Administrator.
Final Bonus
2.14 "" means an Employee who meets the eligibility requirements of Article 3 with respect to one or more Performance Periods.
Participant
2.15 "" shall have the meaning set forth in Article 4.
Performance Criteria
2.16 "" means the twelve month period beginning on each July 1st and ending on the next succeeding June 30th during the term of the Plan, or such other time period established by the Administrator from time to time with respect to which the attainment of Performance Criteria will be determined.
Performance Period
2.17 "" means this CareFusion Corporation Management Incentive Plan, as hereafter amended from time to time.
Plan
2.18 "" means termination of employment by a Participant (other than by reason of death or Disability and other than in the event of Termination for Cause) from the Company and its subsidiaries after attaining age fifty-five (55) and having at least ten (10) years of continuous service with the Company and its subsidiaries, including service with a subsidiary of the Company prior to the time that such subsidiary became a subsidiary of the Company. For purposes of the age and/or service requirement, the Administrator may, in its discretion, credit a Participant with additional age and/or years of service.
Retirement
2.19 "" means the amount of any Award as established by the Administrator that would be payable to a Participant for a Performance Period if the Performance Criteria for the Performance Period were fully (100%) achieved and no negative discretion was exercised by the Administrator in regard to that Award.
Target Award
2.20 "" means, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator, termination of employment from the Company and its subsidiaries on account of any act of fraud or intentional misrepresentation or embezzlement, misappropriation or conversion of assets of the Company or any subsidiary, or the intentional and/or repeated violation of the written policies or procedures of the Company, provided that for an Employee who is party to an individual severance or employment agreement defining Cause, except as may be provided in such agreement, "Cause" shall have the meaning set forth in such agreement. For purposes of
Termination for Cause
 
this Plan, a Participant's termination of employment shall be deemed to be a Termination for Cause if, after the Participant's employment has terminated, facts and circumstances are discovered that would have justified, in the opinion of the Administrator, a Termination for Cause.
Article 3.
Eligibility and Participation.
3.1 . The Administrator shall designate, or determine the methodology and criteria for the designation of, the Employees who are eligible to receive an Award as a Participant under the Plan. In general, an Employee may be designated as a Participant if such Employee is an executive officer of the Company or is otherwise a key Employee because he or she holds a management position and is responsible for or contributes to the management, growth and or profitability of the Company or one of its subsidiaries in a material way. Only the Committee may determine the eligibility of Employees who are Covered Employees.
Eligibility and Participation
3.2 . An Employee who becomes eligible after the beginning of a Performance Period may participate in the Plan for that Performance Period on a ratable basis. Such situations may include, but are not limited to (a) new hires; or (b) when an Employee is promoted from a position which did not previously meet the eligibility criteria. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, retains the right to prohibit or allow participation in the initial Performance Period of eligibility for any of the aforementioned Employees. If an Employee participates for only a portion of a Performance Period for any reason, the Performance Criteria previously established under the Plan for that Performance Period shall apply to any Employees who become eligible after the beginning of the Performance Period, but his or her Award and Target Award will be prorated. Such proration shall be based on the number of days the Employee performed services during the Performance Period while a Participant in the Plan over the total days in the Performance Period, or some similar method adopted by the Committee that results in a ratable reduction of the Award based on the partial Performance Period applicable to the Employee. In addition, in the event a Participant changes job levels during a Performance Period, the Participant's Award may be adjusted to reflect the amount of time at each job level during the Performance Period. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 3.2 or in the Plan to the contrary, the participation in the Plan for a Covered Employee who becomes eligible after the beginning of the Performance Period shall comply with the provisions of Code Section 162(m), as set forth in Article 4.
Partial Performance Period Participation
3.3 . No Participant or other Employee shall at any time have a right to be selected for participation in the Plan for any Performance Period, whether or not he or she previously participated in the Plan.
No Right to Participate
Article 4.
Award Determination.
4.1 . As to each Performance Period, the Administrator will establish in writing Performance Criteria based on or derived from one or more of the following performance measures of the Company (and/or one or more operating groups of the Company, if applicable) over the Performance Period: (i) cash flow; (ii) earnings (including gross margin, earnings before interest and taxes, earnings before taxes, and net earnings); (iii) earnings per share; (iv) growth in earnings or earnings per share; (v) stock price; (vi) return on equity or average stockholders' equity; (vii) total stockholder return; (viii) return on capital; (ix) return on assets or net assets; (x) return on investment; (xi) revenue; (xii) income or net income; (xiii) operating income or net operating income; (xiv) operating profit or net operating profit (whether before or after taxes); (xv) economic profit or profit margin; (xvi) operating margin; (xvii) return on operating revenue; (xviii) return on tangible capital; (xix) market share; (xx) contract awards or backlog; (xxi) overhead or other expense reduction; (xxii) growth in stockholder value relative to the S&P 500 Index or other index or peer group; (xxiii) credit rating; (xxiv) strategic plan development and implementation; (xxv) improvement in workforce diversity: (xxvi) customer satisfaction; (xxvii) employee satisfaction; (xxviii) management succession plan development and implementation; and (xxix) employee retention. Except as otherwise provided herein, the extent to which the Performance Criteria are satisfied will determine the amount, if any, of the Award that will be earned by each Participant. The Performance Criteria may vary for different Performance Periods and need not be the same for each Participant eligible for an Award for a Performance Period.
Performance Criteria
 
 
4.2 . Except as provided herein, once established, the Performance Criteria shall not be changed during the Performance Period. Subject to the requirements of Code Section 162(m) with respect to Covered Employees, at the time the Award is made and Performance Criteria are established, the Administrator is authorized to determine the manner in which the Performance Criteria will be calculated or measured to take into account certain factors over which Participants have no or limited control, including, but not limited to, market related changes in inventory value, changes in industry margins, changes in accounting principles, and extraordinary charges to income. For Participants that are not Covered Employees, the Administrator is authorized to make changes to the Performance Criteria during the Performance Period as necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Plan, as the Administrator shall determine in its sole discretion.
Adjustment of Performance Criteria
4.3 . For each Performance Period established by the Administrator, the Administrator shall establish a Target Award for each Covered Employee and for all other Participants. Awards shall be earned based upon the financial or other performance of the Company or one or more operating groups of the Company and the attainment of established Performance Criteria related thereto during a Performance Period; provided, however, the maximum Award that may be paid to any single Participant for any Performance Period is $7,500,000, such maximum Award amount to be pro-rated if the Performance Period is less than a full fiscal year. Performance Criteria and Target Awards shall be established prior to the beginning of each Performance Period or as soon as practicable thereafter. If a Participant commences participation after the beginning of a Performance Period, Performance Criteria in effect for the Participant's position shall apply for the remaining balance of the Performance Period, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator within 90 days of the date the Employee became a Participant. In all cases where the Participant is a Covered Employee, the Performance Criteria and Target Award shall be established in no event later than 90 days following the first day of the Performance Period or after 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed, if earlier, and the outcome relative to the attainment of the Performance Criteria shall not be substantially certain at the time the Performance Criteria and Target Award are established. This Section 4.3 is intended to ensure compliance with the exception from Code Section 162(m) for qualified "performance-based compensation," and shall be construed, applied and administered accordingly with respect to any Participant who is a Covered Employee.
Target Awards
4.4 . At the end of each Performance Period, the Administrator will determine whether the Performance Criteria were met, and for any Awards for Covered Employees, certify in writing the extent to which the Performance Criteria were met during the Performance Period. If the Performance Criteria for the Performance Period are met, Covered Employees shall be entitled to the payment of the Awards, subject to the Committee's exercise of negative discretion to reduce any Final Bonus payable to a Covered Employee based on business objectives established for that Covered Employee or other factors as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. With respect to Participants who are not Covered Employees, the Administrator will determine the Final Bonus based on the Performance Criteria and other business objectives. The Administrator may adjust (up or down) any Final Bonus for Participants who are not Covered Employees on the basis of such further considerations as the Administrator shall determine in its sole discretion.
Final Bonus Determinations
Article 5.
Payment of Final Bonuses.
5.1 . Except as provided in Article 6 hereof, only Participants who are, as of the date the Final Bonus, if any, is paid, either current, active Employees or current Employees who are on a leave of absence authorized by the Company shall be entitled to any Final Bonus earned for the Performance Period. Each Participant's Final Bonus, if any, shall be paid in cash, in one lump sum, subject to applicable tax and other authorized withholdings, on the last regular business day occurring on or before the 15th day of the third month after the end of each Performance Period. If payment is delayed due to an unforeseeable event or other administrative delays, payment shall in no event be made later than the 15th day of the third month after the end of the taxable year of the Participant in which the Final Bonus was earned. Other withholdings may include, but not be limited to, amounts previously elected to be deferred to a tax-qualified or non-qualified retirement or deferred compensation plan, employee stock purchase plan or similar arrangement. The Administrator may
Form and Timing of Payment
 
permit or provide for deferred payment of any Final Bonus to a specified date or to a date not less than six (6) months after termination of employment, in accordance with such conditions and procedures as the Administrator may specify in compliance with the requirements of Code Section 409A.
5.2 . No Participant or any other party claiming an interest in amounts earned under the Plan shall have any interest whatsoever in any specific asset of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. The Plan is intended to constitute an unfunded plan for incentive compensation. To the extent that any party acquires a right to receive a cash payment under the Plan, such right shall be equivalent to that of an unsecured general creditor of the Company.
Unsecured Interest
Article 6.
Termination of Employment.
6.1 . In the event a Participant's employment is terminated by reason of Retirement, death or Disability during the applicable Performance Period, the Final Bonus determined in accordance with Section 4.4 herein shall be prorated based upon the length of time that the Participant was employed by the Company during the Performance Period. In the case of a Participant's Disability, the employment termination shall be deemed to have occurred as of the date that the Administrator determines was the date on which the definition of Disability was satisfied. The Final Bonus thus determined shall be paid as soon as practicable and reasonable following the end of the Performance Period in which employment termination occurs, and shall be made at the same time payments are made to Participants who did not terminate employment during the applicable Performance Period. The right of the Participant to receive any payment under this Plan will pass to the Participant's estate in the event of the Participant's death.
Termination of Employment Due to Retirement, Death or Disability
6.2 . If the employment of a Participant is terminated by the Company (other than as a Termination for Cause) prior to the fourth quarter of the applicable Performance Period, all of the Participant's rights to any Final Bonus for that Performance Period shall be forfeited unless otherwise determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion. If the employment of a Participant is terminated by the Company (other than as a Termination for Cause) during the fourth quarter of the applicable Performance Period, the Final Bonus determined in accordance with Section 4.4 herein shall be prorated based upon the length of time that the Participant was employed by the Company during the Performance Period.
Involuntary Termination of Employment (Not Retirement Eligible)
6.3 . If at any time during the Performance Period a Participant's employment is terminated in a Termination for Cause, all of the Participant's rights to any Final Bonus for that Performance Period shall be forfeited.
Termination for Cause
6.4 . If at any time during the Performance Period a Participant's employment is terminated other than as set forth in Sections 6.1, 6.2 and 6.3 hereof, all of the Participant's rights to any Final Bonus for that Performance Period shall be forfeited unless otherwise determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion.
Termination of Employment for Other Reasons
6.5 . The Administrator may, in its discretion, require that all or any portion of a Final Bonus is subject to an obligation of repayment to the Company upon the violation of a non-competition and confidentiality covenant applicable to the Participant. The Administrator may, in its discretion, also require repayment to the Company of all or any portion of a Final Bonus if the amount of the Final Bonus was calculated based upon the achievement of certain financial results that were subsequently the subject of a financial statement restatement, the Participant engaged in misconduct that caused or contributed to the need for the financial statement restatement, and the amount of the Final Bonus would have been lower than the amount actually awarded to the Participant had the financial results been properly reported. This Section 6.5 shall not be the Company's exclusive remedy with respect to such matters. This Section 6.5 shall not apply after a "Change of Control" of the Company as defined in the 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan or any successor plan thereto.
Other Forfeiture Events
 
 
Article 7.
Rights of Participants.
7.1 . No person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award under this Plan and the grant of an Award shall not confer upon any Participant any right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, nor shall it limit or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any subsidiary to terminate the employment of any Participant at any time or to increase or decrease the compensation of any Participant. There is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants under this Plan or otherwise.
Employment
7.2 . No right or interest of any Participant in the Plan shall be assignable or transferable, other than by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, or subject to any lien, directly, by operation of law or otherwise, including, but not limited to, by execution, levy, garnishment, attachment, pledge, or bankruptcy, and any attempt to take any such action shall be null and void.
Nontransferability
7.3 . Subject to the provisions of Section 4.3, the Administrator may, in order to fulfill the Plan purposes and without amending the Plan, modify Awards granted to Participants who are foreign nationals or employed outside the United States to the extent necessary to recognize differences in local law, tax policy or custom.
Foreign Participants
Article 8.
Administration.
8.1 .
Authority of the Administrator
(a) . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee will have full authority to interpret the Plan and the terms of Awards made hereunder, to establish, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, to determine the terms and provisions for making or modifying Awards, to correct administrative errors, and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. All decisions made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions hereof shall be made in the Committee's sole discretion and shall be final and binding on all persons. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Committee shall not have any discretion or authority to make changes to any Award that is intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) to the extent that the existence of such discretion or authority would cause such Award not to so qualify.
General
(b) . Except to the extent prohibited by Applicable Law, the Committee may delegate to one or more individuals the day-to-day administration of the Plan and any of the functions assigned to it in this Plan, including the power to approve Awards to Employees who are not Covered Employees. Such delegation may be revoked at any time. All determinations and decisions of any delegate as to any disputed question arising under the Plan, including questions of construction and interpretation, shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all parties.
Delegation of Authority for the Day-to-Day Administration of the Plan
8.2 . If the Administrator deems any person entitled to receive any amount under the provisions of the Plan to be incapable of receiving or disbursing the same by reason of minority, illness or infirmity, mental incompetence, or incapacity of any kind, the Administrator may, in its sole discretion, (i) apply such amount directly for the comfort, support and maintenance of such person; (ii) reimburse any person for any such support theretofore supplied to the person entitled to receive any such payment; (iii) pay such amount to any person selected by the Administrator to disburse it for such comfort, support and maintenance, including without limitation, any relative who has undertaken, wholly or partially, the expense of such person's comfort, care and maintenance, or any institution in whose care or custody the person entitled to the amount may be; or (iv) with respect to any amount due to a minor, deposit such amount to his or her credit in any savings or commercial bank of the Administrator's choice, direct that such distribution be paid to the legal guardian, or if none, to a parent of such person or a responsible adult with whom the minor maintains his or her residence, or to the custodian for
Facility of Payment
 
such person under the Uniform Gift to Minors Act or Gift to Minors Act, if such payment is permitted by the laws of the state in which the minor resides. Payment pursuant to this Section 8.2 shall fully discharge the Company, the Board, the Committee, the Administrator, and the Plan from further liability on account thereof.
Article 9.
Amendments.
The Committee, without notice, at any time and from time to time, may modify or amend, in whole or in part, any or all of the provisions of the Plan, or suspend or terminate it entirely; provided, however, that no such modification, amendment, suspension, or termination may, without the consent of a Participant, materially reduce the right of a Participant to a payment or distribution hereunder to which he or she has already become entitled, as determined under Article 4 and Article 6 hereof. Stockholder approval of any amendment will be required only as required by Applicable Law. No new Award may be granted during any period of suspension of the Plan or after termination of the Plan.
Article 10.
Miscellaneous.
10.1 . The Plan and all agreements hereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, except as to matters pre-empted or governed by federal law.
Choice of Law
10.2 . The Company shall have the right to deduct from all cash payments under the Plan any federal, state, or local taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to any Final Bonus.
Withholding Taxes
10.3 . Nothing contained in this Plan shall prevent the Company from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements for any Participant.
Additional Arrangements
10.4 . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural.
Gender and Number
10.5 . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
10.6 . All obligations of the Company under the Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
Successors
10.7 . Titles are provided herein for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Plan. Any reference to a section (other than to a section of the Plan) shall also include a successor to such section.
Titles; Construction
 


