FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20110405090112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 5, 2011, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release in which the Company announced that Dwight Winstead, the Company's Chief Operating Officer, will leave the Company on June 30, 2011 (the "Departure Date"). A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Under the terms of Mr. Winstead's retention agreement, dated October 15, 2009 (the "Retention Agreement"), this qualifies as a "termination without cause," and accordingly, Mr. Winstead will be entitled to certain benefits set forth in the Retention Agreement. Following the Departure Date, Mr. Winstead will receive six months of salary in a lump sum payment in lieu of six months notice under the Retention Agreement. In addition, he will receive a severance payment under the Retention Agreement, paid out in equal installments over a period of one year, equal to his current annual base salary and his current bonus target under the Company's Management Incentive Plan ("MIP"), which is 100% of his annual base salary. In the aggregate, these amounts will result in the payment of $1,862,500 to Mr. Winstead under the Retention Agreement. In addition, Mr. Winstead will remain eligible for his MIP bonus for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2011, which will be payable at the time fiscal 2011 MIP bonuses are paid to active employees.
In connection with the Retention Agreement, Mr. Winstead also received a retention equity award on October 15, 2009, in the form of 65,151 restricted stock units, which provided for vesting in equal annual installments on October 15, 2012, 2013 and 2014. Under the terms of the agreement for the award (the "Award Agreement"), Mr. Winstead's rights to these restricted stock units will now vest in full on the Departure Date, and the underlying shares will be delivered in equal annual installments on June 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013. As Mr. Winstead meets the eligibility requirements for retirement under the Company's 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan, his rights to other previously granted equity awards have vested in full.
The benefits described herein are subject to the execution by Mr. Winstead of a general release of claims and his compliance with certain restrictive covenants for a two-year period following the Departure Date. The foregoing descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the Retention Agreement, which together with the Award Agreement has been previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
(NYSE: CFN), a leading global medical technology company, today announced Chief Operating Officer Dwight Winstead will leave the company on June 30.
SAN DIEGO, April 5, 2011 
CareFusion
Winstead has served as COO since CareFusion separated from Cardinal Health on Sept. 1, 2009, during which time he had responsibility for sales, marketing, R&D and manufacturing for the company's business segments. He joined Cardinal Health in 1997 and held a variety of positions including president of the Clinical Technologies and Services business and group president for Cardinal Health's Automation and Information Services segment.
"After 40 years in health care and perhaps the most important two years of my career since the spinoff from Cardinal Health, I look forward to pursuing other passions," said Winstead. "CareFusion is in a great position with an operations-oriented CEO in Kieran and strong leaders managing our core businesses. The timing is right for my departure."
Chairman and CEO Kieran Gallahue said: "Dwight and I agreed the timing was right to streamline the organization. He has been a foundational leader at CareFusion and he leaves a legacy of strong operators and industry-leading businesses. I look forward to working closely with Dwight through his transition in June and wish him well."
About CareFusion
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve patient care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AirLife, AVEA and LTV series of ventilators and respiratory products, ChloraPrep skin prep products, MedMined services for data mining surveillance, V. Mueller and Snowden-Pencer surgical instruments and NeuroCare diagnostic products. CareFusion employs more than 14,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at www.carefusion.com.


