FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20110204060821.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 3, 2011, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release in which the Company announced that it entered into a definitive agreement with Medline Industries, Inc., for the sale of the Company's International Surgical Products ("ISP") distribution business. A copy of the news release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
In connection with the sale, the Company will reclassify the ISP business as discontinued operations. As the operations of the ISP business did not meet the criteria for reclassification as discontinued operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2010, this business will be reclassified as discontinued operations beginning in the quarter ending March 31, 2011. In order to allow investors to more easily understand the impact on the Company's financial statements that will occur beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2011, the Company has prepared supplemental unaudited pro forma financial data (the "Financial Data") to reflect the reclassification of this business as if it were discontinued operations. The Company has prepared the Financial Data for the quarters ended September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2010, and for the six-months ended December 31, 2010, as well as for each of the quarters in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 and for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. The Financial Data is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
The Financial Data also reflects the impact of non-recurring items in the periods presented and includes a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations is included as Exhibit 99.3 to this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 Corporation (NYSE: CFN) a global, medical technology company, and , the nation's largest privately held manufacturer and distributor of healthcare products, today announced an agreement to sell the CareFusion International Surgical Products (ISP) distribution business to Medline for approximately $130 million.
SAN DIEGO and MUNDELEIN, ILL., Feb. 3, 2011
CareFusion
Medline Industries, Inc.
The ISP business is based in Rolle, Switzerland, with operations in 16 European and Asian-Pacific countries and distribution and assembly facilities located in Germany, France, Spain and Australia. The business employs more than 850 people and sells medical consumable products in four main categories: drapes and gowns, custom procedure trays, surgeon and exam gloves and fluid management products. The business generates sales of approximately $440 million annually.
"The divestiture of ISP will focus CareFusion on the growth opportunities we have outside the United States for our core medical technologies and disposable products," said David Schlotterbeck, former chairman and CEO of CareFusion, who will retire on Feb. 28. "Medline is an ideal fit for our global ISP employees and customers, who will benefit from the alignment with an industry leader in medical products manufacturing and distribution."
Medline, recently named one of the manufactures and distributes more than 100,000 products to hospitals, extended care facilities, surgery centers, physician offices and home care dealers. Over the past five years, Medline has been the fastest growing distributor of medical and surgical supplies in the U.S., serving as the primary distributor to more than 450 major hospitals and health care systems. With the acquisition of ISP, Medline will become the largest global provider of custom procedure trays.
"100 Best Places to Work in Healthcare,"
"ISP is a strong business with a lot of talented employees who, like us, place a high priority on customer focus, service, quality and integrity," said Andy Mills, president of Medline. "Combining our strong portfolio of products and clinical and supply programs with CareFusion's products and global platform will allow us to bring additional value to our customers."
CareFusion News: Sale of CareFusion International Surgical Products
Page 2 of 2
 
As part of the agreement, Medline will continue to distribute CareFusion products in certain geographies. The acquisition is expected to close in April, subject to customary conditions.
About CareFusion Corporation
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve patient care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris IV pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AirLife, AVEA and LTV series of ventilators and respiratory products, ChloraPrep skin prep products, MedMined services for infection surveillance, V. Mueller and Snowden-Pencer surgical instruments and NeuroCare diagnostic products. CareFusion employs more than 15,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
www.carefusion.com
About Medline
Headquartered in Mundelein, Ill., Medline has 7,000 employees worldwide, with more than 900 dedicated sales representatives nationwide supporting its broad product line and cost management services. Medline has a growing network of 50 manufacturing and distribution centers, and is ISO 9000, EN 46000 and FDA QSR compliant, the most stringent international standards for producing quality products. As a leading distributor, Medline offers a comprehensive array of consulting and management services encompassing the supply chain and logistics, utilization and standardization, business tools and enhanced reporting capabilities and on-staff clinicians.
Cautions concerning forward-looking statements
The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the timing of the anticipated sale, and post sale plans and intentions. The forward-looking statements contained herein are based on current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. There are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements including the satisfaction of conditions to closing the sale. Additional factors that may affect future results are described in CareFusion's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, and Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2010. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, CareFusion undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 

Exhibit 99.2
SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
The following tables present unaudited pro forma quarterly financial data for CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") for the quarters ended September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2010, and for the six-months ended December 31, 2010. In addition, the following tables present unaudited pro forma quarterly financial information for the Company for each of the quarters in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 and for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. As set forth in the Form 8-K of which this Exhibit 99.2 forms a part, on February 3, 2011, the Company issued a news release in which the Company announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement with Medline Industries, Inc., for the sale of the Company's International Surgical Products distribution business. The operations of the International Surgical Products business did not meet the criteria for reclassification as discontinued operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2010, and as a result, this business will be reclassified as discontinued operations beginning in the quarter ending March 31, 2011. The Company is voluntarily providing the unaudited pro forma financial data included in the following tables to reflect the reclassification of this business as if it were discontinued operations for all periods presented so investors can more easily understand the impact on the Company's financial statements beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


