FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20111102083055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") made a decision in July 2011 to realign its businesses into two new global operating segments. As a result of this business realignment, the Company also made a determination to align its reportable segments with its new operating segments. Commencing with the quarter ended September 30, 2011, the Company will begin reporting its financial results based on its two new operating and reportable segments, as follows:
 
 
The Company has furnished with this report the following summary historical financial data that reflects the Company's new reportable segments:
 
 
The information contained in Exhibit 99.2 includes non-GAAP financial measures. A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations has been furnished as Exhibit 99.3 to the Company's report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 8, 2011.
The information contained in this Item 8.01 and Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Commencing with the quarter ended September 30, 2011, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") will begin reporting its financial results based on its two new operating and reportable segments, Medical Systems and Procedural Solutions. The following historical financial information reflects the impact of this re-segmentation, as well as revenue information for select business lines within each of the segments.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Commencing with the quarter ended September 30, 2011, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") will begin reporting its financial results based on its two new operating and reportable segments, Medical Systems and Procedural Solutions. The following historical financial information reflects the impact of this re-segmentation, as well as the impact of non-recurring items on the Company's financial results.
 
 


