FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20110505160704.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 5, 2011, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release (the "News Release") announcing its results for the quarter and nine months ended March 31, 2011. A copy of the News Release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 to this report.
 
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 2:00 p.m. PDT on May 5, 2011, the Company will discuss its results for the quarter and nine months ended March 31, 2011. The slide presentation for the conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
CareFusion News
Page 1 of 10
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 CareFusion Corp. (NYSE: CFN), a leading, global medical technology company, today reported results for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2011.
SAN DIEGO, May 5, 2011
"Our business performed well in the quarter, driving revenue and operating earnings growth year-over-year and expanding margins through a favorable product mix and disciplined expense control," said Kieran Gallahue, chairman and CEO. "Our earnings for the quarter outperformed our internal expectations, giving us confidence to raise the lower end of our adjusted EPS guidance and narrow the range to $1.60 to $1.65. Additionally, we continue to make progress in our efforts to optimize our product portfolio. We recently completed the divestiture of two businesses and acquired Vestara, expanding our core Pyxis medication management portfolio to include technology that enables hospitals to automate the segregation of pharmaceutical waste."
CareFusion's reported results compare to the three and nine month periods ended March 31, 2010.
Results from the company's International Surgical Products (ISP) business, which had been included in the Medical Technologies and Services segment and was divested in April 2011, have been classified as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial tables. Reported results for continuing operations and comparisons to prior periods exclude the historical results of the ISP business.
Third Quarter Results
Revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 increased 4 percent to $867 million on a reported basis and 3 percent on a constant currency basis, driven primarily by increased sales in the Infusion, Infection Prevention and Dispensing businesses. Operating income was $146 million and income from continuing operations was $86 million, or $0.38 per diluted share. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating income increased $51 million to $155 million and adjusted income from continuing
CareFusion News
Page 2 of 10
 
operations increased $41 million to $94 million, or $0.42 per diluted share. The adjusted tax rate for the quarter was 31.7 percent.
Operating expenses, including selling, general and administrative (SG&A), research and development (R&D), restructuring and acquisition integration charges and gain on the sale of assets totaled $301 million, or 35 percent of total revenue. Excluding $9 million of nonrecurring items, adjusted operating expenses totaled $292 million, or 34 percent of total revenue. Adjusted SG&A expenses were $253 million and R&D investments totaled $39 million.
Critical Care Technologies
Revenue for the Critical Care Technologies segment increased 5 percent to $661 million driven by Infusion product sales, including core growth and a contribution from the May 2010 acquisition of Medegen, and an increase in Dispensing sales. These increases were offset by an expected decrease in Respiratory sales due to a weak post H1N1 environment. Segment profit increased 49 percent to $115 million, and adjusted segment profit increased 43 percent to $129 million.
Medical Technologies and Services
Revenue for the Medical Technologies and Services segment decreased 1 percent to $206 million, driven by the loss of revenue from the company's May 2010 divestiture of the Research Services business, which was essentially offset by increased sales from the Infection Prevention and Medical Specialties businesses. Net of this divestiture, revenue growth would have been 8 percent. Segment profit increased 78 percent to $16 million, and adjusted segment profit increased 86 percent to $26 million.
Nine-Month Results
Revenue for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 increased 1 percent to $2.56 billion. Operating income increased to $347 million and income from continuing operations was $195 million, or $0.87 per diluted share. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating income increased $47 million to $423 million and adjusted income from continuing operations increased $32 million to $253 million, or $1.13 per diluted share.
Operating expenses totaled $958 million or 37 percent of total revenue. Excluding $76 million of nonrecurring items, adjusted operating expenses totaled $882 million, or 34 percent of total revenue. Adjusted SG&A expenses were $767 million, and R&D investments totaled $115 million.
Critical Care Technologies
Revenue for the Critical Care Technologies segment increased 2 percent to $1.96 billion. Segment profit increased 3 percent to $298 million, or 9 percent to $357 million on an adjusted basis.
Medical Technologies and Services
Revenue for the Medical Technologies and Services segment decreased 2 percent to $602 million. Segment profit was even with the prior year at $34 million, and increased 35 percent to $66 million on an adjusted basis.
CareFusion News
Page 3 of 10
 
Fiscal 2011 Outlook
CareFusion reaffirmed its fiscal 2011 revenue guidance of low single digit growth over fiscal 2010 revenue of $3.5 billion. In addition, the company narrowed its outlook for adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations for fiscal 2011 to a range of $1.60 to $1.65, the upper end of its previously provided guidance range of $1.58 to $1.65. The guidance is based on an assumed diluted weighted average outstanding share count of approximately 225 million.
Conference Call
CareFusion will host a conference call today at 2 p.m. PDT (5 p.m. EDT) to discuss earnings results for the third quarter fiscal 2011.
To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, visit the Investors page at . Log on at least 15 minutes before the call begins to register and download or install any necessary audio software.
www.carefusion.com
Investors and other interested parties may also access the call by dialing (800) 901-5247 within the U.S. or (617) 786-4501 from outside the U.S., and use the access code 55257170. A replay of the conference call will be available from 5 p.m. PDT (8 p.m. EDT) on May 5 through 8:59 p.m. PDT (11:59 p.m. EDT) on May 12 and can be accessed by dialing (888) 286-8010 in the U.S. or (617) 801-6888 Internationally and using the access code 91057852.
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve patient care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AirLife, AVEA and LTV series of ventilators and respiratory products, ChloraPrep skin prep products, MedMined services for data mining surveillance, V. Mueller and Snowden-Pencer surgical instruments and NeuroCare diagnostic products. CareFusion employs more than 14,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
About CareFusion
www.carefusion.com
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures by CareFusion Corporation
This CareFusion news release presents non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain amounts, as follows: which exclude nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff, nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges, and nonrecurring gain on the sale of assets; which exclude nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff, nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges, nonrecurring gain on the sale of assets, and nonrecurring tax items; and which excludes nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff and nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges.
"adjusted operating expenses", "adjusted SG&A expenses" and "adjusted operating income",
"adjusted income from continuing operations", "adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations" and "adjusted effective tax rate",
"adjusted segment profit",
The most directly comparable measure for these non-GAAP financial measures are operating expenses, SG&A expenses, operating income, income from continuing operations, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, effective tax rate, and segment profit (the most comparable GAAP measures). The company has included below unaudited adjusted financial information for the quarter and nine month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, which includes a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures.
CareFusion News
Page 4 of 10
 
In addition, CareFusion presents the non-GAAP financial measure on a forward-looking basis. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure for the company is diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. CareFusion is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of this forward-looking non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure, because the company cannot reliably forecast restructuring and acquisition integration costs, and other nonrecurring costs. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact CareFusion's future financial results. A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding CareFusion's financial condition and results of operations is included as Exhibit 99.3 to CareFusion's report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 5, 2011.
"adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations"
Cautions Concerning Forward-looking Statements
The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in CareFusion's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: we may be unable to effectively enhance our existing products or introduce and market new products or may fail to keep pace with advances in technology; we are subject to complex and costly regulation; cost containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third-party payers and governmental organizations could adversely affect our sales and profitability; current economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition; we may be unable to realize any benefit from our cost reduction and restructuring efforts and our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected; we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others; defects or failures associated with our products and/or our quality system could lead to the filing of adverse event reports, recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity and could subject us to regulatory actions; we are currently operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA and our failure to comply with the requirements of the amended consent decree may have an adverse effect on our business; and our success depends on our key personnel, and the loss of key personnel or the transition of key personnel, including our chief executive officer, could disrupt our business. The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein reflect management's views as of May 5, 2011. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, CareFusion undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
CareFusion News
Page 5 of 10
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 6 of 10
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 7 of 10
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 8 of 10
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 9 of 10
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 10 of 10
 
 
 


Exhibit 99.3
In addition to financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), information containing non-GAAP financial measures for CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") was disclosed in the Company's news release (the "News Release") dated May 5, 2011 announcing results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 and in a slide presentation (the "Presentation") that accompanied a conference call held by the Company on May 5, 2011 to discuss the Company's financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 and outlook for its fiscal year ending June 30, 2011. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The Company has provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental metrics to assist readers. Definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures are included in the News Release.
In the News Release and the Presentation, the Company presented non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain amounts, as follows:
 These non-GAAP financial measures exclude nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff, nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges, and nonrecurring gain on the sale of assets.
"Adjusted operating expenses", "adjusted SG&A expenses" and "adjusted operating income"
 These non-GAAP financial measures exclude nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff, nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges, nonrecurring gain on the sale of assets, and nonrecurring tax items.
"Adjusted income from continuing operations", "adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations" and "adjusted effective tax rate"
 This non-GAAP financial measure excludes nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff and nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges.
"Adjusted segment profit"
Nonrecurring costs related to the spinoff are items, based on Company management judgment, that are incremental expenses directly associated with the spinoff from Cardinal Health and will not recur. A restructuring activity is a program whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re-alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Restructuring charges are recorded in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 420 "Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations" ("ASC 420"). Under ASC 420, a liability is measured at its fair value and recognized as incurred. Nonrecurring gain on the sale of assets and nonrecurring tax items are, based on Company management judgment, one-time impacts related to unusual or infrequent transactions not indicative of future operations.
Company management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance. While we may have these types of items and charges in the future, Company management believes that they are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, or discrete and unusual or infrequent transactions that are not indicative of future operations, and that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
The limitation associated with using these non-GAAP financial measures is that these measures exclude items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using these non-GAAP financial measures in combination with "operating expenses", "SG&A expenses", "operating income", "income from continuing operations", "diluted earnings per share from continuing operations", "effective tax rate" and "segment profit" (the most comparable GAAP measures) because these non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measure.


