FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20110203160605.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 3, 2011, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release (the "News Release") announcing its results for the quarter and six months ended December 31, 2010. A copy of the News Release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 to this report.
 
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 2:00 p.m. PST on February 3, 2011, the Company will discuss its results for the quarter and six months ended December 31, 2010. The slide presentation for the conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
3750 Torrey View Ct
San Diego, CA 92130
www.CareFusion.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 CareFusion Corp. (NYSE: CFN), a leading, global medical technology company, today reported results for the three and six months ended Dec. 31, 2010.
SAN DIEGO, Feb. 3, 2011
"Our strong second quarter results were driven by increased sales in our Infusion, Dispensing and Infection Prevention businesses, and a benefit from a lower tax rate," said David Schlotterbeck, CareFusion's outgoing chairman and CEO, who had announced in November 2010 his plans to retire. On Feb. 1, the company announced Kieran T. Gallahue as Schlotterbeck's successor. "We exceeded our internal earnings expectations for the first half of fiscal 2011, and overcame prior year period benefits from sales related to H1N1 and our Alaris System ship hold release. Committed contracts booked during the quarter were at or near record levels in the Infusion and Dispensing businesses, giving us positive momentum into the second half of fiscal 2011 and even into fiscal 2012.
"We are updating our fiscal 2011 financial outlook to reflect the revenue and EPS impact of the divesture of our International Surgical Products (ISP) and OnSite Services businesses, as well as a reduction in our Infusion revenue estimates as the expected timing of pump conversions shifts sales from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2012.
"For fiscal 2011, we are now expecting adjusted diluted EPS in the range of $1.58 to $1.65, which includes absorbing approximately $0.07 dilution from the divestitures of ISP and OnSite, and lowering our revenue growth guidance from mid single digits to low single digits growth."
Agreement to Divest of International Surgical Products Business
CareFusion announced today that it has signed an agreement to sell its ISP business to Medline Industries, Inc. For the full fiscal year 2011, revenues and earnings per share associated with the ISP business are estimated to be $440 million and $0.06, respectively. The results of the ISP operations have not been classified as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial tables as the criteria for this classification was not met in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. The divestiture is
 
CareFusion News
Page 2 of 11
 
expected to close in April 2011, subject to customary closing conditions. The company will include the ISP results in discontinued operations beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2011.
Second Quarter Results
CareFusion's reported results compare to the three and six month periods ended Dec. 31, 2009.
The company reported revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 of $1,002 million, compared to $1,019 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2010, a decrease of 2 percent on a reported basis or 1 percent on a constant currency basis after adjusting for an $8 million unfavorable foreign currency impact. The year-over-year decline was driven primarily by lower sales in the company's Respiratory business.
Operating income was $126 million, down 1 percent compared to $127 million in the prior year period. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating income for the second quarter increased to $155 million from $149 million.
Operating expenses, including selling, general and administrative (SG&A), research and development (R&D) and restructuring and acquisition integration charges in the second quarter totaled $349 million, or 35 percent of total revenue. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating expenses in the second quarter totaled $320 million, or 32 percent of total revenue. Adjusted SG&A expenses were $284 million and R&D investments totaled $36 million.
The company reported income from continuing operations in the second quarter of $76 million, or $0.34 per diluted share. Adjusted income from continuing operations was $98 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, and the adjusted tax rate was 26.8 percent for the second quarter.
Critical Care Technologies
Second quarter revenue for the Critical Care Technologies segment totaled $684 million, and was flat on a reported basis and increased 1 percent on a constant currency basis compared to the prior year period. Segment revenues in the quarter were driven by an increase in the company's Infusion product sales, which included core Infusion growth and a contribution from the company's May 2010 acquisition of Medegen, and an increase in the company's Dispensing business, which benefited from competitive displacements. The increase in Infusion and Dispensing sales was offset by an expected decrease in the company's Respiratory product line revenues. Respiratory sales continued to be negatively impacted by a weak post H1N1 environment, declines in hospital admissions and a lighter flu season than in the prior year period.
Segment profit decreased 1 percent to $110 million. Adjusted segment profit increased 2 percent to $128 million, primarily due to strong Infusion and Dispensing results.
Medical Technologies and Services
Second quarter revenue for the Medical Technologies and Services segment decreased 6 percent to $318 million, or 4 percent on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year period. Segment revenues in the quarter were driven by decreased sales in the company's ISP business, the loss of revenue from the company's Research Services business that was divested in May 2010 and by foreign currency rates during the current year quarter. Partially offsetting this decline was increased sales from the company's Infection Prevention business.
 
CareFusion News
Page 3 of 11
 
Excluding the revenues associated with the company's ISP, OnSite Services and Research Services businesses, all of which are included in the Medical Technologies and Services segment, segment revenues grew 5 percent in the second quarter compared to the prior year period.
Segment profit was unchanged at $16 million. Adjusted segment profit increased 17 percent to $27 million, based on growth in the company's Infection Prevention business, which offset the year-over-year decline in currency and the loss of income from the Research Services divestiture.
Six-Month Results
For the first six months of fiscal 2011, revenue decreased 2 percent to $1,910 million. Operating income declined to $208 million from $244 million. Income from continuing operations was $114 million, or $0.51 per diluted share.
Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating income for the first six months of fiscal 2011 decreased to $277 million from $283 million and adjusted income from continuing operations decreased $9 million to $165 million, or $0.73 on an adjusted basis per diluted share.
Operating expenses, including SG&A, R&D, and restructuring and acquisition integration charges in the first six months of fiscal 2011 totaled $707 million or 37 percent of total revenue. Excluding $69 million of nonrecurring items, adjusted operating expenses in the first six months of fiscal 2011 totaled $638 million, or 33 percent of total revenue. Adjusted SG&A expenses were $562 million, and R&D investments totaled $76 million.
Segment results for the six months ended Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:
 
 
Adjusted operating expenses, adjusted SG&A expenses, adjusted operating income, adjusted income from continuing operations, adjusted diluted earnings per share and adjusted segment profit are non-GAAP financial measures and exclude restructuring and acquisition integration charges, nonrecurring related costs, nonrecurring tax items and discontinued operations. Adjusted income from continuing operations also excludes nonrecurring costs related to the bridge loan entered into in connection with the spinoff. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is included later in this news release.
Fiscal 2011 Outlook
CareFusion's updated financial outlook for full-year fiscal 2011 reflects the anticipated impact of the divesture of the ISP business announced today and the previously announced divestiture of our OnSite Services business, both of which are expected to close in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Our outlook also reflects revised expectations regarding the timing of Infusion revenues and our tax rate, as discussed below. Taking into account these factors, the company now expects adjusted diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2011 to be in the range of $1.58 to $1.65, instead of the previously
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 4 of 11
 
provided range of $1.58 to $1.68. If the divestitures of ISP and OnSite had occurred in fiscal 2010, our fiscal 2010 adjusted diluted earnings per share would have been approximately $1.33 and revenues would have been $3.5 billion. The company is also lowering its revenue guidance growth targets. The company's previously issued guidance anticipated mid single digit growth over fiscal 2010 reported revenues of $3.9 billion. The company's updated guidance anticipates low single digit growth over $3.5 billion.
The company anticipates the impact of the ISP and OnSite divestitures will reduce fiscal 2011 revenues and adjusted diluted earnings per share by approximately $450 million and $0.07, respectively. The updated financial outlook for full-year fiscal 2011 also reflects a reduction in the company's Infusion revenue estimates due to a shift in sales from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2012 to account for an extended time period for pump conversions. In addition, the company is lowering its adjusted tax rate guidance to a range of 28 to 30 percent, down from 30 to 32 percent previously provided.
The guidance is based on an assumed diluted weighted average outstanding share count of approximately 225 million.
Conference Call
CareFusion will host a conference call today at 2 p.m. PST (5 p.m. EST) to discuss earnings results for the second quarter fiscal 2011.
To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, visit the Investor Relations page at . Log on at least 15 minutes before the call begins to register and download or install any necessary audio software.
www.carefusion.com
Investors and other interested parties may also access the call by dialing (800) 295-4740 within the U.S. or (617) 614-3925 from outside the U.S., and use the access code 36174850. A replay of the conference call will be available from 5 p.m. PST (8 p.m. EST) on Feb. 3 through 8:59 p.m. PST (11:59 p.m. EST) on Feb. 10 and can be accessed by dialing (888) 286-8010 in the U.S. or (617) 801-6888 Internationally and using the access code 71934199.
About CareFusion Corporation
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve patient care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris IV pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AirLife, AVEA and LTV series of ventilators and respiratory products, ChloraPrep skin prep products, MedMined services for infection surveillance, V. Mueller and Snowden-Pencer surgical instruments and NeuroCare diagnostic products. CareFusion employs more than 15,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
www.carefusion.com
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures by CareFusion Corporation
This CareFusion news release presents the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted operating expenses", "adjusted SG&A expenses", "adjusted operating income", "adjusted income from continuing operations", "adjusted diluted earnings per share" and "adjusted segment profit". The most directly comparable measure for these non-GAAP financial measures are operating expenses, SG&A expenses, operating income, income from continuing operations, diluted earnings per share and segment profit. The company has included below unaudited adjusted financial information for the
 
CareFusion News
Page 5 of 11
 
quarter and six month periods ended Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009, which present the company's results of operations after excluding restructuring and acquisition integration charges, nonrecurring related costs, nonrecurring tax items and discontinued operations.
In addition, CareFusion presents the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted diluted earnings per share" on a forward-looking basis. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure for the company is diluted earnings per share. CareFusion is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of this forward-looking non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure, because the company cannot reliably forecast restructuring and acquisition integration costs, and other nonrecurring costs. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact CareFusion's future financial results. A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding CareFusion's financial condition and results of operations is included as Exhibit 99.3 to CareFusion's report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Feb. 3, 2011.
Cautions Concerning Forward-looking Statements
The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the timing of the anticipated sale, and post sale plans and intentions, related to the company's ISP and OnSite Services businesses, as well as statements regarding the company's business and financial outlook. The forward-looking statements contained herein are based on current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. There are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements including the satisfaction of conditions to closing the sale of the ISP and OnSite Services businesses and the effect these sales have on the company's business and financial results. Additional factors that may affect future results are described in CareFusion's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: we may be unable to effectively enhance our existing products or introduce and market new products or may fail to keep pace with advances in technology; we are subject to complex and costly regulation; cost containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third-party payers and governmental organizations could adversely affect our sales and profitability; current economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition; we may be unable to realize any benefit from our cost reduction and restructuring efforts and our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected; we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others; defects or failures associated with our products and/or our quality system could lead to the filing of adverse event reports, recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity and could subject us to regulatory actions; we are currently operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA and our failure to comply with the requirements of the amended consent decree may have an adverse effect on our business; and our success depends on our key personnel, and the loss of key personnel or the transition of key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, could disrupt our business. The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein reflect management's views as of Feb. 3, 2011. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, CareFusion undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 6 of 11
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 7 of 11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 8 of 11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 9 of 11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 10 of 11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 11 of 11
 
 
 
 
 


Exhibit 99.3
In addition to financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), information containing non-GAAP financial measures for CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") was disclosed in the Company's news release (the "News Release") dated February 3, 2011 announcing results for the quarter ended December 31, 2010 and in a slide presentation (the "Presentation") that accompanied a conference call held by the Company on February 3, 2011 to discuss the Company's financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2010 and outlook for its fiscal year ending June 30, 2011. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The Company has provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental metrics to assist readers. Definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures are included in the News Release.
In the News Release and the Presentation, the Company presented the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted operating expenses", "adjusted SG&A expenses", "adjusted operating income", "adjusted income from continuing operations", "adjusted diluted earnings per share" and "adjusted segment profit". These non-GAAP financial measures exclude restructuring and acquisition integration charges, nonrecurring related costs, nonrecurring tax items, and additionally in the case of "adjusted income from continuing operations" and "adjusted diluted earnings per share", the results of discontinued operations. A restructuring activity is a program whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re-alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Restructuring charges are recorded in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 420 "Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations" ("ASC 420"). Under ASC 420, a liability is measured at its fair value and recognized as incurred. Nonrecurring related costs are items, based on Company management judgment, that are incremental expenses directly associated with the spinoff from Cardinal Health and will not recur, or expenses associated with unusual or infrequent transactions not indicative of future operations. Nonrecurring tax items are, based on Company management judgment, one-time tax impacts related to unusual or infrequent transactions not indicative of future operations.
Company management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing healthcare products and services to the healthcare industry, its management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring activities and acquisition integration, nonrecurring related items, or nonrecurring tax items. While we may have these types of items and charges in the future, Company management believes that they are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, or in the case of nonrecurring related costs and nonrecurring tax items, discrete and unusual or infrequent transactions that are not indicative of future operations, and that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
The limitation associated with using these non-GAAP financial measures is that these measures exclude items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using these non-GAAP financial measures in combination with "operating expenses", "SG&A expenses", "operating income", "income from continuing operations", "diluted earnings per share" and "segment profit" (the most comparable GAAP measures) because these non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measure.


