FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20111107160842.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 7, 2011, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release (the "News Release") announcing its results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. A copy of the News Release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 to this report.
 
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 2:00 p.m. PST on November 7, 2011, the Company will discuss its results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. The slide presentation for the conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
3750 Torrey View Ct
San Diego, CA 92130
www.CareFusion.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 CareFusion today reported results for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2011.
SAN DIEGO, November 7, 2011
"Our revenue and adjusted earnings per share growth for the quarter was driven by increased sales in our Dispensing Technologies and Infusion Systems businesses and the benefit from a lower tax rate," said Kieran Gallahue, chairman and CEO. "During the quarter, we transitioned from our stand-up phase to our foundation building stage, and made progress in our efforts to simplify how we do business and invest in areas to help expand margins and accelerate our top line growth.
Today, we are reaffirming our full-year adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2012 of $1.80 to $1.90 and revenue growth of 3 to 5 percent over fiscal 2011 on a constant currency basis."
CareFusion's reported results compare to the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2010.
First Quarter Results
Revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 increased 4 percent to $844 million on a reported basis and 3 percent on a constant currency basis, driven primarily by increased sales in the Dispensing Technologies and Infusion Systems businesses. Operating income was $108 million and income from continuing operations was $67 million, or $0.30 per diluted share. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating income increased $1 million to $119 million and adjusted income from continuing operations increased $12 million to $76 million, or $0.33 per diluted share. The adjusted tax rate for the quarter was 19.8 percent, primarily driven by a discrete onetime $5 million United Kingdom tax refund related to pre-spinoff periods from Cardinal Health.
CareFusion News
Page 2 of 9
 
CareFusion's financial results were negatively impacted during the quarter by an increase in recall reserves in the company's Medical Systems segment. The company recorded a $12 million charge, or approximately $0.04 per share, the majority of which is related to expenses incurred and future expected costs associated with voluntary field corrections for a portion of its installed base of AVEA ventilators. While the company is in the process of remediating the affected ventilators, it continues to manufacture and sell its AVEA ventilator products.
Operating expenses, including selling, general and administrative (SG&A), research and development (R&D) and restructuring and acquisition integration charges totaled $319 million, or 38 percent of total revenue. Excluding $11 million of nonrecurring items, adjusted operating expenses totaled $308 million, or 36 percent of total revenue. Adjusted SG&A expenses were $269 million and R&D investments totaled $39 million.
New Reporting Segments
In July 2011, the company realigned its businesses under two new global operating segments named Medical Systems and Procedural Solutions. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2012, the company also made a determination to realign its reportable segments with the new operating segments. Accordingly, the company is reporting results under these two segments, which are replacing the Critical Care Technologies and Medical Technologies and Services segments under which the company had previously reported. The Medical Systems segment includes the company's Dispensing Technologies, Infusion Systems and Respiratory Technologies business lines. The Procedural Solutions segment includes the company's Infection Prevention, Medical Specialties and Specialty Disposables business lines. The company has separately provided summary historical financial data for the new reportable segments in a report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Nov. 2, 2011.
Medical Systems
Revenue for the Medical Systems segment increased 9 percent on a reported basis to $509 million, or 7 percent on a constant currency basis, driven by Dispensing Technologies and Infusion Systems sales. Sales in the company's Dispensing Technologies business increased organically and due to the August 2011 acquisition of Rowa, a Germany-based company specializing in robotic medication storage and retrieval systems for retail and hospital pharmacies. Sales of Infusion Systems increased as a result of core business growth primarily in the dedicated disposable product volumes. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in Respiratory Technologies sales, primarily due to lower sales of ventilators in Western Europe. Segment profit increased 29 percent to $88 million, and adjusted segment profit increased 6 percent to $95 million, both of which were negatively impacted by the $12 million increase in the company's recall reserves.
Procedural Solutions
Revenue for the Procedural Solutions segment decreased 2 percent on a reported basis to $335 million, or 4 percent on a constant currency basis, driven by the loss of sales from divesting the company's OnSite Services business in March 2011. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in sales in the company's Infection Prevention business. Net of the OnSite Services business divestiture, segment revenues grew 1 percent in the first quarter compared to the prior year period. Segment profit increased 82 percent to $20 million due to margin expansion and strong expense controls, and adjusted segment profit decreased 14 percent to $24 million, primarily driven by the divestiture of the OnSite Services business.
Fiscal 2012 Outlook
CareFusion is reiterating financial guidance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. The company continues to expect fiscal 2012 revenues to grow 3 to 5 percent on a constant currency basis compared to fiscal 2011 revenue of $3.53 billion and for adjusted diluted earnings per share to be in
CareFusion News
Page 3 of 9
 
the range of $1.80 to $1.90. The guidance is based on an assumed diluted weighted average outstanding share count of approximately 226 million.
Conference Call
CareFusion will host a conference call today at 2 p.m. PST (5 p.m. EST) to discuss earnings results for the first quarter ended Sept. 30, 2011.
To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, visit the Investors page at . Log on at least 15 minutes before the call begins to register and download or install any necessary audio software.
www.carefusion.com
Investors and other interested parties may also access the call by dialing (800) 901-5213 within the U.S. or (617) 786-2962 from outside the U.S., and use the access code 61573117. A replay of the conference call will be available from 5 p.m. PST (8 p.m. EST) on Nov. 7 through 8:59 p.m. PST (11:59 p.m. EST) on Nov. 14 and can be accessed by dialing (888) 286-8010 in the U.S. or (617) 801-6888 Internationally and using the access code 14995413.
About CareFusion
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve the safety and quality of care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AVEA, AirLife and LTV series ventilation and respiratory products, ChloraPrep skin prep products, MedMined services for data mining surveillance, Nicolet neurological monitoring and diagnostic products, V. Mueller surgical instruments, and an extensive line of products that support interventional medicine. CareFusion employs more than 14,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
www.carefusion.com
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures by CareFusion Corporation
This CareFusion news release presents non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain amounts, as follows: which exclude nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff and nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges; which exclude nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff, nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges and nonrecurring tax items; and which excludes nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff and nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges.
"adjusted operating expenses", "adjusted SG&A expenses" and "adjusted operating income",
"adjusted income from continuing operations", "adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations" and "adjusted tax rate",
"adjusted segment profit",
The most directly comparable measure for these non-GAAP financial measures are operating expenses, SG&A expenses, operating income, income from continuing operations, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, tax rate, and segment profit (the most comparable GAAP measures). The company has included below unaudited adjusted financial information for the quarters ended Sept. 30, 2011 and 2010, which includes a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures.
In addition, CareFusion presents the non-GAAP financial measure on a forward-looking basis. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure for the company is diluted earnings per share. CareFusion is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of this forward-looking non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable
"adjusted diluted earnings per share"
CareFusion News
Page 4 of 9
 
forward-looking GAAP measure, because the company cannot reliably forecast restructuring and acquisition integration costs, and other nonrecurring costs. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact CareFusion's future financial results. A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding CareFusion's financial condition and results of operations is included as Exhibit 99.3 to CareFusion's report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Nov. 7, 2011.
Cautions Concerning Forward-looking Statements
The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in CareFusion's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: we may be unable to effectively enhance our existing products or introduce and market new products or may fail to keep pace with advances in technology; we are subject to complex and costly regulation; cost containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third-party payers and governmental organizations could adversely affect our sales and profitability; current economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition; we may be unable to realize any benefit from our cost reduction and restructuring efforts and our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected; we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others; defects or failures associated with our products and/or our quality system could lead to the filing of adverse event reports, recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity and could subject us to regulatory actions; we are currently operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA and our failure to comply with the requirements of the amended consent decree may have an adverse effect on our business; and our success depends on our key personnel, and the loss of key personnel or the transition of key personnel, including our chief executive officer, could disrupt our business. The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein reflect management's views as of Nov. 7, 2011. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, CareFusion undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
CareFusion News
Page 5 of 9
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 6 of 9
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 7 of 9
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 8 of 9
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 9 of 9
 
 
 


Exhibit 99.3
In addition to financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), information containing non-GAAP financial measures for CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") was disclosed in the Company's news release (the "News Release") dated November 7, 2011 announcing results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 and in a slide presentation (the "Presentation") that accompanied a conference call held by the Company on November 7, 2011 to discuss the Company's financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 and outlook for its fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The Company has provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental metrics to assist readers. Definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures are included in the News Release.
In the News Release and the Presentation, the Company presented non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain amounts, as follows:
 These non-GAAP financial measures exclude nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff, and nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges.
"Adjusted operating expenses", "adjusted SG&A expenses" and "adjusted operating income"
 These non-GAAP financial measures exclude nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff, nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges, and nonrecurring tax items.
"Adjusted income from continuing operations", "adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations" and "adjusted tax rate"
 This non-GAAP financial measure excludes nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff, and nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges.
"Adjusted segment profit"
Nonrecurring costs related to the spinoff are items, based on Company management judgment, that are incremental expenses directly associated with the spinoff from Cardinal Health and will not recur. A restructuring activity is a program whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re-alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Restructuring charges are recorded in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 420 "Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations" ("ASC 420"). Under ASC 420, a liability is measured at its fair value and recognized as incurred. Nonrecurring tax items are, based on Company management judgment, one-time impacts related to unusual or infrequent transactions not indicative of future operations.
Company management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance. While we may have these types of items and charges in the future, Company management believes that they are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, or discrete and unusual or infrequent transactions that are not indicative of future operations, and that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
The limitation associated with using these non-GAAP financial measures is that these measures exclude items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using these non-GAAP financial measures in combination with "operating expenses", "SG&A expenses", "operating income", "income from continuing operations", "diluted earnings per share from continuing
operations", "tax rate" and "segment profit" (the most comparable GAAP measures) because these non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measure.


