FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20121108160508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 8, 2012, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release (the "News Release") announcing preliminary selected financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. In the News Release, the Company also provided an update on the status of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 (the "Form 10-K"). A copy of the News Release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 2:00 p.m. PST on November 8, 2012, the Company will discuss its preliminary selected financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, as well as the status of the Form 10-K.
In the News Release, the Company presents non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain amounts, including, "adjusted SG&A expenses", "adjusted operating expenses", and "adjusted segment profit". Definitions of these non-GAAP financial measures, including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures, are contained in the News Release. The Company's management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance and provides them to investors as a supplement to the Company's reported results, as they believe this information provides additional insight into the Company's operating performance by disregarding certain non-recurring items. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or as superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the Company's financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 CareFusion Corp. (NYSE: CFN) today reported preliminary results for its first quarter of fiscal 2013, ended Sept. 30, and provided an update on plans to file its Form 10-K for fiscal 2012.
SAN DIEGO, Nov. 8, 2012
"We had another quarter of solid strategic progress and strong execution across the company, including balanced contributions from both segments," said Kieran T. Gallahue, chairman and CEO. "Our Medical Systems and Procedural Solutions segments performed in line with our expectations, putting us in a good position as we begin the year.
"While we are not able to provide a full financial update today, we now have a path toward completing the filing of our fiscal 2012 Form 10-K. As our Finance team completes this necessary work, the rest of our organization remains absolutely focused on our customers, as demonstrated in this quarter's results."
As previously disclosed, the company delayed the filing of its Form 10-K for fiscal 2012 to consult with the SEC about its accounting policy for sales-type leases in its Pyxis medication and supply dispensing product lines. As a result of these discussions, the company has determined that it will modify the manner in which it applies lease accounting principles to its Pyxis sales-type leases. The company is now in the process of analyzing the impact on its financials. The modified application of lease accounting principles will impact how the company records revenue for its sales-type leases. As a result, the amount of revenue recorded at the inception of each lease and the amount recorded as finance income during the term of each lease may change. In some cases, more revenue may be recognized at the inception of the lease and, in other cases, more revenue may be recognized as finance income during the lease term. However, this should not result in any change in the total amount of revenue recognized over the term of a lease. This matter also does not affect CareFusion customers or the underlying fundamentals and cash flows of the company or its Pyxis business.
Until this analysis is complete, CareFusion is unable to report its consolidated financial results. Accordingly, the company today provided selected operating and financial results compared to the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2011. These results are preliminary and remain subject to the completion of the company's quarterly review and the filing of its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2012. Although the company plans to delay the filing of its Form 10-Q with the SEC beyond the Nov. 9 due date, CareFusion intends to file its Form 10-K and Form 10-Q as soon as possible after its accounting analysis is complete.
Medical Systems
Within the Medical Systems segment, revenue for the Infusion Systems business unit was ahead of company expectations, finishing the quarter at $203 million, a 1 percent decline from the prior year period. CareFusion previously said infusion revenue was expected to decline 5 percent during fiscal 2013 following a record year of infusion sales in fiscal 2012.
Revenue for the Respiratory Technologies business unit increased 4 percent from the prior year period to $97 million, driven by continued strength in ventilator sales that was partially offset by weakness in the respiratory diagnostics portfolio. Beginning this quarter, CareFusion is reporting financial results for its ventilation and respiratory diagnostics businesses together to reflect a change in the company's organizational structure.
Dispensing Technologies had another strong quarter, delivering results in line with company expectations. While CareFusion is unable to provide specific financial performance for its Dispensing Technologies business unit until it completes the analysis regarding its sales-type leases, the underlying fundamentals of the business, as well as the competitive landscape, remain unchanged. The company continues to execute well with the rollout of its new product platform and expand its business outside the U.S.
Procedural Solutions
First quarter revenue for the Procedural Solutions segment was $286 million, an increase of 1 percent from the prior year period. Segment profit increased 24 percent to $41 million, a 14 percent increase to $48 million on an adjusted basis.
Within the segment, revenue for the Infection Prevention business unit reached $144 million, a 4 percent increase from the prior year period based on strong sales growth of the company's clinically differentiated preoperative skin preparation and infusion specialty disposables product lines.
Contributions from the June 2012 acquisition of U.K. Medical and growth in the company's clinically differentiated interventional specialties portfolio drove a 3 percent increase in revenue in the Medical Specialties business unit to $80 million from $78 million in the prior year period.
As expected, revenue in the Specialty Disposables business unit declined, closing the quarter at $62 million, or 6 percent lower than the prior year period, as the company transitions its business model and portfolio of products.
 
Additional financial results
Operating expenses during the quarter totaled $293 million, a decrease of 5 percent from the prior year period. Excluding nonrecurring items and amortization of acquired intangibles, adjusted operating expenses decreased 1 percent to $276 million.
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses also fell during the quarter to $244 million, an 8 percent decrease from the prior year period. These ongoing cost-savings initiatives helped fund additional investments in research and development, which increased 27 percent to $47 million during the quarter. Adjusted SG&A expenses were $229 million, decreasing 5 percent from $242 million in the prior year period.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations was $78 million, an increase of $75 million over the prior year period.
Recent Highlights
Additional first quarter and recent highlights included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call
CareFusion will host a and conference call today at 2 p.m. PST (5 p.m. EST) to discuss the financial and operational results for the first quarter.
webcast
To access the call, visit the . Log on at least 15 minutes before the call begins to register and download or install any necessary audio software.
Investors page at www.carefusion.com
Investors and other interested parties may also access the call by dialing (800) 599-9795 within the U.S. or (617) 786-2905 from outside the U.S., and use the access code 70745464. A replay of the conference call will be available from 4 p.m. PST (7 p.m. EST) on Nov. 8 through 8:59 p.m. PST (11:59 p.m. EST) on Nov. 15 and can be accessed by dialing (888) 286-8010 in the U.S. or (617) 801-6888 internationally and using the access code 35047396.
About CareFusion Corporation
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve the safety and quality of care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AVEA, AirLife and LTV series ventilation and respiratory products, ChloraPrep skin prep products, MedMined services for data mining surveillance, V. Mueller surgical instruments, and an extensive line of products that support interventional medicine. CareFusion employs more than 15,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
http://www.carefusion.com/
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures by CareFusion Corporation
This CareFusion news release and the information contained herein present non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain amounts, as follows: which exclude amortization of acquired intangibles, as well as nonrecurring items related to the spinoff; and and which exclude amortization of acquired intangibles, as well as nonrecurring items related to the spinoff and restructuring and acquisition integration charges. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures for these non-GAAP financial measures are SG&A expenses, operating expenses and segment profit. The company has included below unaudited adjusted financial information for the quarters ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, which includes a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures.
"adjusted SG&A expenses,"
"adjusted operating expenses,"
"adjusted segment profit,"
The company's management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the company's performance and provides them to investors as a supplement to the company's reported results, as they believe this information provides additional insight into the company's operating performance by disregarding certain non-recurring items. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or as superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the company's financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. While the types of items and
 
charges excluded from the company's non-GAAP financial measures may occur in the future, the company's management believes that they are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, or discrete and unusual or infrequent transactions that are not indicative of future operations or business trends.
Cautions Concerning Forward-looking Statements
The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein present forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in CareFusion's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: the modified application of lease accounting principles to our sales-type leases and the potential impact on our reported financial results and financial guidance; the timing for filing our Form 10-K for fiscal 2012 and Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal 2013; we may be unable to effectively enhance our existing products or introduce and market new products or may fail to keep pace with advances in technology; we are subject to complex and costly regulation; cost containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third-party payers and governmental organizations could adversely affect our sales and profitability; current economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition; we may be unable to realize any benefit from our cost reduction and restructuring efforts and our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected; we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others; defects or failures associated with our products and/or our quality system could lead to the filing of adverse event reports, recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity and could subject us to regulatory actions; we are currently operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA and our failure to comply with the requirements of the amended consent decree may have an adverse effect on our business; and our success depends on our key personnel, and the loss of key personnel or the transition of key personnel, including our chief executive officer, could disrupt our business. The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein reflect management's views as of Nov. 8, 2012. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, CareFusion undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


