FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20120829160400.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 29, 2012, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release (the "News Release") announcing a delay in the filing of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 (the "2012 Annual Report"). As a result of this delay, on August 29, 2012, the Company filed a Form 12b-25 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which provides the Company an additional fifteen (15) calendar days to timely file its 2012 Annual Report. A copy of the News Release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time on August 29, 2012, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will discuss reasons for the delay in filing the 2012 Annual Report and resulting Form 12b-25 filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
3750 Torrey View Ct
San Diego, CA 92130
www.CareFusion.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 CareFusion Corp. (NYSE: CFN) today notified the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that it will delay filing its annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30. Under SEC rules, the company will have a 15-day extension until Sept. 13 to complete the filing.
SAN DIEGO, Aug. 29, 2012
CareFusion will use the extension to consult with the SEC about the company's accounting policy for sales-type leases in its Pyxis medication and supply dispensing product line, a policy CareFusion has consistently applied for more than 10 years. In connection with its year-end audit, the company was made aware of a potential alternative application of the accounting rules and thought it prudent to discuss the matter directly with the SEC prior to filing its Form 10-K.
"With more than 40 quarters using the same method, we believe our accounting is in accordance with GAAP and, in collaboration with our independent auditors, have voluntarily requested pre-clearance from the SEC prior to filing our Form 10-K," said Jim Hinrichs, chief financial officer. "If the SEC does not object to our accounting policy, we would expect to file our Form 10-K without any changes to the financial results reported on Aug. 9."
The alternative application of GAAP being discussed with the SEC would have the effect of increasing the amount of revenue recorded at the inception of each lease and decreasing the amount of revenue recorded over the life of each lease. Accounting for leases in this way would likely result in a modest increase in cumulative revenue and earnings, while the impact on any particular fiscal year may vary. In addition, this would result in an increase in the company's investment in sales-type leases on the balance sheet.
CareFusion reaffirmed the fiscal 2013 guidance it provided on Aug. 9 and does not believe the matter will have a meaningful impact on expected revenue, earnings or cash flow.
The matter has no impact on CareFusion customers or the underlying fundamentals and cash flows of the Pyxis business.
 
Conference Call
CareFusion will host a webcast and conference call today at 2 p.m. PDT (5 p.m. EDT) to discuss the matter. To access the webcast, visit the . Log on at least 15 minutes before the call begins to register and download or install any necessary audio software.
Investors page at www.carefusion.com
Investors and other interested parties may also access the call by dialing (866) 578-5784 within the U.S. or (617) 213-8056 from outside the U.S., and use the access code 94768570. A replay of the conference call will be available from 4 p.m. PDT (7 p.m. EDT) on Aug. 29 through 8:59 p.m. PDT (11:59 p.m. EDT) on Sept. 5 and can be accessed by dialing (888) 286-8010 in the U.S. or (617) 801-6888 internationally and using the access code 66071873.
About CareFusion Corporation
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve the safety and quality of care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AVEA, AirLife and LTV series ventilation and respiratory products, ChloraPrep products, MedMined services for data mining surveillance, V. Mueller surgical instruments, and an extensive line of products that support interventional medicine. CareFusion employs more than 15,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
www.carefusion.com
Cautions Concerning Forward-looking Statements
The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein presents "forward-looking statements," including the company's statements regarding its accounting policies, the impact of potential changes in the company's accounting policies, the impact of potential adjustments to the company's prior financial reports, the company's timing for filing its Form 10-K, the nature of any potential adjustments to the company's financial reports, and statements regarding the company's fiscal 2013 financial guidance. The company intends forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "anticipates," "plans," or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, which could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risk that additional information may arise during the course of the company's lease accounting review that may require the company to make additional adjustments, the time and effort required to complete the company's discussions with the SEC, and the time and effort required to make any adjustments to the company's financial reports, if required, as well as other risks described more fully in Item 1A in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, which are expressly incorporated herein by reference, and other factors as may periodically be described in the company's filings with the SEC. The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein reflect management's views as of Aug. 29, 2012. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, CareFusion undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


