FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20120702161800.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On June 26, 2012, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") approved amended forms of agreements to be utilized by the Company for grants of certain equity awards under the Company's 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "LTIP") and the amendment and restatement of certain of the Company's compensatory plans, as further described below.
The Committee approved amended forms of equity award agreements for grants of nonqualified stock options, restricted stock units (each, an "RSU") and performance stock units made under the LTIP on and after August 2012. The agreements for these types of awards made prior to August 2012 included a so-called "single trigger" vesting provision, which provided for full acceleration of the vesting of the awards (and exercisability in the case of stock options) in connection with a change of control event (as defined in the LTIP) affecting the Company. The amended form of award agreements for these types of awards provide instead for "double trigger" vesting, which means that the vesting of the awards (and exercisability in the case of stock options) will be accelerated only if the recipient's service with the Company (or its successor) is terminated without cause (as defined in the award agreement) or for good reason (as defined in the award agreement), in either case within two years following the change of control event affecting the Company. Other changes were made to permit use of alternative vesting schedules, improve administration, and provide clarity around various provisions. The foregoing description of the material amendments to these equity award agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, Performance Stock Units Agreement, RSU Agreement (Directors), RSU Agreement (Officers), RSU Agreement (multi-year vest) and RSU Agreement (cliff vest), which are filed herewith as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2, 99.3, 99.4, 99.5 and 99.6, respectively.
Forms of Certain Equity Award Agreements.
. The Committee approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's Severance Plan (the "Severance Plan"), effective July 1, 2012. The Severance Plan establishes the amount of severance payments and benefits available to employees at or below the level of Senior Vice President in the event of a termination of employment due to a reorganization of operations, reduction in workforce, change in business that affects employee staffing, and any other circumstances determined by the plan administrator. The amendment and restatement of the Severance Plan is intended to establish additional structure and procedures, provide clarity around various provisions, and reduce the amount of severance payable under the plan. The Severance Plan provides for continued payment of salary, health benefits continuation and outplacement services for a period of between two and 12 months depending on the employee's position with the Company and length of service. The Severance Plan previously provided employees in certain positions with an additional severance payment in an amount equal to the employee's annual cash bonus award under the Company's Management Incentive Plan ("MIP"), pro-rated for the year of termination. The amended and restated Severance Plan eliminated this additional payment. While no named executive officers are currently entitled to receive severance payments under the Severance Plan, it is possible that current and future participants in the Severance Plan may become a named executive officer in the future. Accordingly, the Severance Plan is being filed herewith. The foregoing description of the Severance Plan and the material amendments thereto is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Severance Plan, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.7.
Severance Plan
The Committee approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's Executive Severance Guidelines (the "Severance Guidelines"), effective July 1, 2012. The Severance Guidelines are guidelines to be considered by the Committee in providing severance payments and benefits to certain executive-level employees who are not eligible for the Severance Plan in the event of a termination of employment by the Company without cause or by the executive for good reason. Actual payments and benefits may be higher or lower than as recommended in the Severance Guidelines, as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee. The amendment and restatement of the Severance Guidelines is intended to reduce the number of executives subject to the guidelines and reduce the amount of severance payable under the guidelines. The Severance Guidelines provide for cash severance equal to one year of base salary, health benefits continuation and outplacement services for a period of one year, and a potential additional payment in an amount up to the average of the prior two years' annual cash bonus awards under the MIP. The Severance Guidelines previously provided for such a payment regardless of whether the executive received a payment under the MIP in the year of termination.
Executive Severance Guidelines.
The amended and restated Severance Guidelines provide instead that any such additional payment shall be reduced by the amount of any payment received under the MIP. The foregoing description of the Severance Guidelines and the material amendments thereto is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Severance Guidelines, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.8.
The Committee approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's Executive Change in Control Severance Plan (the "CIC Plan"), effective July 1, 2012. The CIC Plan establishes the amount of severance payments and benefits available to certain executive-level employees in the event of a termination of employment by the Company without cause (as defined in the CIC Plan) or by the executive for good reason (as defined in the CIC Plan), in each case within 24 months following a change in control event affecting the Company (i.e., a "double trigger" scenario). The amendment and restatement of the CIC Plan was intended to reduce the number of executives subject to the plan, provide additional clarity around various provisions, and reduce the amount of severance payable under the plan. The CIC Plan provides for cash severance equal to a multiple of the sum of base salary and target bonus, a pro-rated target bonus for the year of termination, and health benefits continuation and outplacement services in varying amounts depending on the executive's position with the Company. The CIC Plan previously established three tiers of executives, with all Tier I and II executives eligible for a cash severance multiple of two times the sum of base salary and target bonus, and Tier III executives eligible for a cash severance multiple of up to one times the sum of base salary and target bonus. The amended and restated CIC Plan provides instead for only two tiers of executives with differentiation in the severance multiple, as follows: two times the sum of base salary and target bonus for the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, executive vice presidents, and presidents; 1.5 times the sum of base salary and target bonus for senior vice presidents; and one times the sum of base salary and target bonus for specifically designated vice presidents. The CIC Plan also provides for payment of a pro-rated target bonus for the year of termination, health benefits continuation for up to 24 months (up to 36 months for the chief executive officer) and outplacement services for a period of between six and 12 months, depending on the executive's position with the Company. The foregoing description of the CIC Plan and the material amendments thereto is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the CIC Plan, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.9.
Executive Change in Control Severance Plan.
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
On             (the "Grant Date"), CareFusion Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to             ("Awardee"), an option (the "Option") to purchase             shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the "Shares") for a price of             per share. The Option has been granted under the CareFusion Corporation 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), and will include and be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and will be subject to the provisions of this Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (this "Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined will have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. This Option shall vest and become exercisable in three installments, which shall be as nearly equal as possible, on the first three anniversaries of the Grant Date (each a "Vesting Date" with respect to the portion of the Option scheduled to vest on such date), subject in each case to the provisions of this Agreement, including those relating to the Awardee's continued employment with the Company and its Affiliates (collectively, the "CareFusion Group"). This Option shall expire on             (the "Grant Expiration Date").
1. .
Method of Exercise and Payment of Price
(a) . At any time when all or a portion of the Option is exercisable under the Plan and this Agreement, some or all of the exercisable portion of the Option may be exercised from time to time by written notice to the Company, or such other method of exercise as may be specified by the Company, including without limitation, exercise by electronic means on the web site of the Company's third-party equity plan administrator, which will:
Method of Exercise
(i) state the number of whole Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised; and
(ii) if the Option is being exercised by anyone other than Awardee, if not already provided, be accompanied by proof satisfactory to counsel for the Company of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option under the Plan and all Applicable Laws and regulations.
(b) . The full exercise price for the portion of the Option being exercised shall be paid to the Company as provided below:
Payment of Price
(i) in cash;
(ii) by check or wire transfer (denominated in U.S. Dollars);
(iii) subject to any conditions or limitations established by the Administrator, other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired from the Company (whether upon the exercise of an Option or otherwise), have been owned by the Participant for more than six months on the date of surrender (unless this condition is waived by the Administrator), and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to or greater
than the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised (it being agreed that the excess of the Fair Market Value over the aggregate exercise price shall be refunded to the Awardee, with any fractional Share being repaid in cash);
(iv) subject to any conditions or limitations established by the Administrator, the Company's withholding Shares otherwise issuable upon exercise of an Option;
(v) consideration received by the Company under a broker-assisted sale and remittance program acceptable to the Administrator; or
(vi) any combination of the foregoing methods of payment.
2. . The Option shall be transferable (I) at Awardee's death, by Awardee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (II) by Awardee during Awardee's lifetime, without payment of consideration, to (a) the spouse, former spouse, parents, stepparents, grandparents, parents-in-law, siblings, siblings-in-law, children, stepchildren, children-in-law, grandchildren, nieces or nephews of Awardee, or any other persons sharing Awardee's household (other than tenants or employees) (collectively, "Family Members"), (b) a trust or trusts for the primary benefit of Awardee or such Family Members, (c) a foundation in which Awardee or such Family Members control the management of assets, or (d) a partnership in which Awardee or such Family Members are the majority or controlling partners; provided, however, that subsequent transfers of the transferred Option shall be prohibited, except (X) if the transferee is an individual, at the transferee's death by the transferee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (Y) without payment of consideration to the individuals or entities listed in subparagraphs II(a), (b) or (c), above, with respect to the original Awardee. The Administrator may, in its discretion, permit transfers to other persons and entities as permitted by the Plan. Neither a transfer under a domestic relations order in settlement of marital property rights nor a transfer to an entity in which more than 50% of the voting interests are owned by Awardee or Family Members in exchange for an interest in that entity shall be considered to be a transfer for consideration. Within 10 days of any transfer, Awardee shall notify the Compensation and Benefits department of the Company in writing of the transfer. Following transfer, the Option shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer and, except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this Agreement, references to the original Awardee shall be deemed to refer to the transferee. The events of a Termination of Employment of Awardee provided in Paragraph 3 hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Awardee, following which the Option shall be exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the periods, specified in Paragraph 3. The Company shall have no obligation to notify any transferee of Awardee's Termination of Employment with the CareFusion Group for any reason. The conduct prohibited of Awardee in Paragraphs 5 and 6 hereof shall continue to be prohibited of Awardee following transfer to the same extent as immediately prior to transfer and the Option (or its economic value, as applicable) shall be subject to forfeiture by the transferee and recoupment from Awardee to the same extent as would have been the case of Awardee had the Option not been transferred. Awardee shall remain subject to the recoupment provisions of Paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Agreement and tax withholding provisions of Section 29 of the Plan following transfer of the Option.
Transferability
 
3. .
Termination of Employment; Retirement
(a) . If a Termination of Employment of Awardee occurs by reason of death or Disability prior to the vesting in full of the Option, but at least six (6) months from the Grant Date, then any unvested portion of the Option shall vest upon and become exercisable in full from and after such death or Disability. The Option may thereafter be exercised by the Awardee, any transferee of Awardee, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of Awardee under the will of Awardee from the date of such death or Disability until the Grant Expiration Date.
Termination of Employment by Reason of Death or Disability
(b) . If Awardee remains in the continuous employ of the Company or its Affiliates for at least six (6) months after the Grant Date and at such time is or thereafter becomes Retirement Eligible, then any unvested portion of the Option shall vest. Subject to Paragraph 3(c) below, if the Option vests in accordance with the preceding sentence, it shall become exercisable by Awardee (or any transferee, if applicable) on the applicable Vesting Date(s) in the portions set forth on the vesting schedule provided in the preamble to this Agreement, and once a portion of the Option becomes exercisable, it shall remain exercisable until the Grant Expiration Date. If Awardee dies after becoming Retirement Eligible, but before the Grant Expiration Date, the Option may be exercised in full by any transferee of the Option, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of Awardee under the will of Awardee from and after such death until the Grant Expiration Date. For purposes of this Agreement and this Award under the Plan, "Retirement Eligible" shall mean Awardee's (i) attaining age fifty-five (55), and (i) having at least ten (10) years of continuous service with the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. and their Affiliates, including service with an Affiliate of the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. prior to the time that such Affiliate became an Affiliate of the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. For purposes of the age and/or service requirement, the Administrator may, in its discretion, credit a Participant with additional age and/or years of service.
Retirement
(c) . If within two (2) years after a Change of Control, Awardee experiences a Termination of Employment (i) by the Company for any reason other than because of Awardee's death, Disability or Termination for Cause or (ii) by Awardee for Good Reason (as defined below), then any unvested portion of the Option shall vest upon and become exercisable in full from and after such date of Termination of Employment and the Option shall remain exercisable until the earlier of one (1) year following the date of such Termination of Employment or the Grant Expiration Date; provided that, if Awardee is Retirement Eligible on the date of such Termination of Employment, then any unexercisable portion of the Option shall become exercisable in full from after such date of Termination of Employment and shall remain exercisable until the Grant Expiration Date.
Termination in Connection with a Change of Control
For purposes of this Paragraph 3(c), "Good Reason" means one or more of the following conditions (without the consent of Awardee): (i) a material reduction of Awardee's base compensation (including Base Salary or Target Bonus); (ii) a material diminution in Awardee's authority, duties, or responsibilities; (iii) a material diminution in the authority, duties, or responsibilities of the supervisor to whom Awardee is required to report; (iv) a material diminution in the budget over which Awardee retains authority; and (v) a material
 
change in the geographic location at which Awardee must perform services, where a change of at least 35 miles or to another country will be deemed material. Awardee must provide notice to the Company of the existence of one or more of the above conditions within 90 days after the initial existence of the condition(s), upon the notice of which the Company shall have 30 days to remedy the condition(s). If the Company fails to so remedy the condition(s), the 31 day following the Company's receipt of Awardee's notice shall be deemed to be the date of Termination of Employment of Awardee for Good Reason hereunder.
(d) . If a Termination of Employment of Awardee occurs by any reason other than as set forth in Paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) hereof, any unexercised portion of the Option which has not vested on such date of Termination of Employment will automatically be forfeited. Awardee (or any transferee, if applicable) will have 90 days from the date of Termination of Employment or until the Grant Expiration Date, whichever period is shorter, to exercise any portion of the Option that is vested and exercisable on the date of Termination of Employment; provided, however, that if the Termination of Employment was a Termination for Cause, as determined by the Administrator, the Option shall be immediately canceled by the Administrator (whether then held by Awardee or any transferee).
Other Termination of Employment
4. . The Option is subject to all restrictions in this Agreement and/or in the Plan. As a condition of any exercise of the Option, the Company may require Awardee or his or her transferee or successor to make any representation and warranty to comply with any applicable law or regulation or to confirm any factual matters (including Awardee's compliance with the terms of Paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Agreement or any employment or severance agreement between the CareFusion Group and Awardee) reasonably requested by the Company. The Option shall not be exercisable if such exercise would involve a violation of any Applicable Law.
Restrictions on Exercise
5. . As used in this Agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall include the following: disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties assigned by the CareFusion Group any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the CareFusion Group; violation of Company policies, including but not limited to conduct which would constitute a breach of any certificate of compliance or similar attestation/certification signed by Awardee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer or director of the CareFusion Group at any time within the 12 months prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment; any action by Awardee and/or his or her representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the CareFusion Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Awardee; and breaching any provision of any employment or severance agreement with a member of the CareFusion Group. As used in this Agreement, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Awardee's employment or within one year following Awardee's Termination of Employment, accepting employment
Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct
 
with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the CareFusion Group (a "Competitor"), including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Awardee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Awardee's employment with the CareFusion Group and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this Agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur.
6. . For so long as Awardee continues as an employee with the CareFusion Group and for three years following Termination of Employment regardless of the reason, Awardee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of "Competitor Triggering Conduct" set forth in Paragraph 5 above, then:
Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules
(a) the Option (or any part thereof that has not been exercised) shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and shall cease to be exercisable at any time; and
(b) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay the to Company an amount equal to (x) the gross option gain realized or obtained by Awardee or any transferee resulting from the exercise of such Option, measured at the date of exercise (i.e., the difference between the market value of the Shares underlying the Option on the exercise date and the exercise price paid for such Shares underlying the Option), with respect to any portion of the Option that has already been exercised at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), (y) minus $1.00. If Awardee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, but including any period between the time of Termination of Employment and engagement in Competitor Triggering Conduct. Awardee may be released from Awardee's obligations under this Paragraph 6 if and only if the Administrator (or its duly appointed designee) authorizes, in writing and in its sole discretion, such release. Nothing in this Paragraph 6 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. This Paragraph 6 does, however, prohibit certain conduct while Awardee is associated with the CareFusion Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, Awardee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Paragraph 6 and Awardee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provisions of this Agreement shall diminish, negate or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other Agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including, but not limited to, any certificate of compliance or similar attestation/certification signed by Awardee; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other Agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the
 
provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Agreement are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Option, in consideration of employment, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Option and execution of this Agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Awardee and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Option to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in Paragraphs 5 and 6 are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made.
7. . By accepting this Option, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee that are not treated as "non-qualified deferred compensation" under Section 409A of the Code by any member of the CareFusion Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the CareFusion Group by Awardee under this Agreement.
Right of Set-Off
8. .
Withholding Tax
(a) . Awardee is liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the exercise of the Option, regardless of any action the Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Option. The Company does not make any representation or undertaking regarding the tax treatment or the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the exercise of the Option. The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the Option or the exercise of the Option to reduce or eliminate Awardee's tax liability.
Generally
(b) . Concurrently with the payment of the exercise price pursuant to Paragraph 1 hereof, Awardee is required to arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation") in a manner acceptable to the Company, including withholding such amounts in cash from the Awardee's wages or other payments due to the Awardee at any time, or, in lieu thereof, to retain, or sell without notice, a number of Shares sufficient to cover the Tax Withholding Obligation. The value of any Shares retained for such purposes shall be based on the Fair Market Value, as the term is defined in the Plan, of the Shares on the date of exercise of the Option. To the extent that the Company or its Affiliate withholds any amounts in Shares to cover the Tax Withholding Obligation, it will do so at the minimum statutory rate. Should the Company or the Affiliate withhold any amounts in cash or retains any Shares in excess of Awardee's actual Tax Withholding Obligation, the Company and/or Awardee's employer will refund the excess amount to the Awardee, with any fractional Share being repaid in cash, within a reasonable period and without any interest. The Awardee authorizes the Company or the Affiliate, or their agents (including, without limitations, any broker or bank) to withhold cash or Shares as appropriate. Awardee agrees
Payment of Withholding Taxes
 
to pay the Company and/or the Affiliate employing Awardee any amount of the Tax Withholding Obligation that is not satisfied by the means described herein.
If any of the foregoing methods of collection are not allowed under Applicable Law or if Awardee fails to comply with his or her obligations in connection with the Tax Withholding Obligation as described in this section, the Company may refuse to honor the exercise and refuse to deliver the Shares.
Awardee is liable and responsible for all taxes and social security owed in connection with the Option, regardless of any action the Company takes with respect to any Tax Withholding Obligations that arise in connection with the Option. The Company does not make any representation or undertaking regarding the tax and social security treatment or the treatment of any withholding in connection with the exercise of the Option. The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the Option or the exercise of the Option to reduce or eliminate Awardee's tax liability.
9. . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the CareFusion Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies afforded the CareFusion Group hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the CareFusion Group to institute legal proceedings under this Agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this Agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Governing Law/Venue for Dispute Resolution/Costs and Legal Fees
The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Delaware bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this Agreement and that the Option and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this Agreement by the laws of the State of Delaware. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in state or federal courts located in the State of Delaware and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts.
 
10. . The parties agree that the interpretation of this Agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this Agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this Agreement. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this Agreement to an officer of the CareFusion Group designated by the Administrator (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties or such other material as the Administrator or its designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator or its designee and that any decision of the Administrator or its designee relating to this Agreement, including without limitation whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious.
Action by the Administrator
11. . The Option grant evidenced by this Agreement shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited if this Agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date.
Prompt Acceptance of Agreement
12. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Option grant under and participation in the Plan or future options that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of option grants and the execution of option Agreements through electronic signature.
Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation
13. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below:
Notices
CareFusion Corporation
3750 Torrey View Court
San Diego, CA 92130
Attention: General Counsel
All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Awardee.
 
14. . To the extent a written employment Agreement, offer letter or other arrangement ("Employment Arrangement") that was approved by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors or that was approved in writing by an officer of the Company pursuant to delegated authority of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee provides for greater benefits to Awardee with respect to (i) vesting of the Option on Termination of Employment by reason of specified events or (ii) exercisability of the Option following Termination of Employment, than provided in this Agreement or in the Plan, then the terms of such Employment Arrangement with respect to vesting of the Option on Termination of Employment by reason of such specified events or exercisability of the Option following Termination of Employment shall supersede the terms hereof to the extent permitted by the terms of the Plan.
Employment Agreement, Offer Letter or Other Arrangement
 
 
Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges receiving a copy of the Plan, which has either been previously delivered or is provided with this Agreement, and represents that he or she is familiar with and understands all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement; (b) voluntarily and knowingly accepts this Agreement and the Option granted to him or her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, including the provisions in the Agreement regarding "Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct" and "Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules" set forth in Paragraphs 5 and 6 above; (c) acknowledges previously accepting, and voluntarily and knowingly accepts, the terms of the equity awards of the Company and/or Cardinal Health, Inc. that Awardee received in connection with the spin-off of the Company from Cardinal Health, Inc., subject to all the provisions of the applicable equity incentive plan(s) under which the award(s) was granted; and (d) represents that he or she understands that the acceptance of this Agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he or she manually signed the Agreement. Awardee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's stockholders and a copy of the Plan Prospectus dated August 31, 2009 pertaining to the Plan.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
On             (the "Grant Date"), CareFusion Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to             ("Awardee") a targeted number of             (the "Target Number") Performance Stock Units (the "Performance Stock Units" or "Award") to be calculated and determined as discussed below. Each Performance Stock Unit will represent an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Company to deliver shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the "Shares") to Awardee as set forth herein. Each Performance Stock Unit will be subject to forfeiture until the date such Performance Stock Unit vests pursuant to Paragraph 1 of this Agreement, or as otherwise provided herein. The Performance Stock Units have been granted pursuant to the CareFusion Corporation 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), and shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the provisions of this Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement that are not specifically defined will have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
1. .
Vesting
(a) Subject to the continuous service requirements in Paragraph 3, the Performance Stock Units will vest to the extent that the specific performance measure set forth in of this Agreement (the "Performance Measure") equals or exceeds the designated performance target level or levels specified in of this Agreement (the "Performance Target") for the three-fiscal year period ending June 30, 2014 (the "Performance Period"). Any determination that the Performance Target is achieved and that any Performance Stock Units vest with respect to the Performance Period shall be made by written certification of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Committee") not later than the date that is 2
Appendix A
Appendix A
 1
/
2
months after the end of the Performance Period.
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, prior to the end of the Performance Period, but at least six (6) months from the Grant Date, the Performance Stock Units will vest as to 100% of the Target Number if within two (2) years after a Change of Control, Awardee experiences a Termination of Employment (i) by the Company for any reason other than because of Awardee's death, Disability or Termination for Cause or (ii) by Awardee for Good Reason (as defined below).
For purposes of this Paragraph 1(b), "Good Reason" means one or more of the following conditions (without the consent of Awardee): (i) a material reduction of Awardee's base compensation (including Base Salary or Target Bonus); (ii) a material diminution in Awardee's authority, duties, or responsibilities; (iii) a material diminution in the authority, duties, or responsibilities of the supervisor to whom Awardee is required to report; (iv) a material diminution in the budget over which Awardee retains authority; and (v) a material change in the geographic location at which Awardee must perform services, where a change of at least 35 miles or to another country will be deemed material. Awardee must provide notice to the Company of the existence of one or more of the above conditions within 90 days after the initial existence of the condition(s), upon the notice of which the Company
 
shall have 30 days to remedy the condition(s). If the Company fails to so remedy the condition(s), the 31 day following the Company's receipt of Awardee's notice shall be deemed to be the date of Termination of Employment of Awardee for Good Reason hereunder.
2. . The Performance Stock Units shall not be transferable.
Transferability
3. .
Continuous Service Requirement and Termination of Employment
(a) . Except as set forth in Paragraphs 6(b), (c) and (d) below, in order to receive a payment pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof with respect to Performance Stock Units that vest based on the achievement of the Performance Target in accordance with Paragraph 1(a) hereof, Awardee must remain in the continuous employ of the Company or its Affiliates through the date specified in Paragraph 6 on which any Shares are paid, and if a Termination of Employment of Awardee occurs (other than in connection with a Change of Control in accordance with Paragraph 1(b) hereof) prior to the date Shares are paid under Paragraph 6, then all outstanding Performance Stock Units shall be forfeited by Awardee.
General
(b) . If, prior to the end of the Performance Period, but at least six (6) months from the Grant Date, a Termination of Employment of Awardee occurs by reason of death or by the Company on account of Disability, then the Performance Stock Units shall not be forfeited as a result of such Termination of Employment and shall immediately vest on the date of such Termination of Employment as to 100% of the Target Number multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete months that have elapsed from the beginning of the Performance Period until the date on which the Termination of Employment occurs and the denominator of which is 36.
Termination of Employment by Reason of Death or Disability
(c) . If, prior to the end of the Performance Period, but at least six (6) months from the Grant Date, a Termination of Employment of Awardee occurs by reason of Retirement, then the Performance Stock Units shall not be forfeited as a result of such Termination of Employment, and Awardee shall vest in such Performance Stock Units as provided in Paragraph 1 hereof without regard to such Termination of Employment and subject to the provisions of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement and this Award under the Plan, "Retirement" shall mean Awardee's (i) attaining age fifty-five (55) and (ii) having at least ten (10) years of continuous service with the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. and their Affiliates, including service with an Affiliate of the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. prior to the time that such Affiliate became an Affiliate of the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. For purposes of the age and/or service requirement, the Administrator may, in its discretion, credit a Participant with additional age and/or years of service.
Termination of Employment by Reason of Retirement
4. . As used in this Agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall include the following: disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties assigned by the Company and its Affiliates (the "CareFusion Group") any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the CareFusion Group; violation of Company policies, including but not limited to conduct which would constitute a breach of
Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct
 
any certificate of compliance or similar attestation/ certification signed by Awardee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer or director of the CareFusion Group at any time within the 12 months prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment; any action by Awardee and/or his or her representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the CareFusion Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Awardee; and breaching any provision of any employment or severance agreement with a member of the CareFusion Group. As used in this Agreement, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Awardee's employment or within one year following Awardee's Termination of Employment, accepting employment with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the CareFusion Group (a "Competitor"), including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Awardee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Awardee's employment with the CareFusion Group and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this Agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur.
5. . For so long as Awardee continues as an Employee with the CareFusion Group and for three years following Termination of Employment regardless of the reason, Awardee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of "Competitor Triggering Conduct" set forth in Paragraph 4 above, then Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to (x) the aggregate gross gain realized or obtained by Awardee resulting from the settlement of all Performance Stock Units pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof (measured as of the settlement date (i.e., the market value of the Performance Stock Units on such settlement date)) that have already been settled and that had vested at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), minus (y) $1.00. If Awardee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, but including any period between the time of Termination of Employment and engagement in Competitor Triggering Conduct. Awardee may be released from Awardee's obligations under this Paragraph 5 if and only if the Administrator (or its duly appointed designee) authorizes, in writing and in its sole discretion, such release. Nothing in this Paragraph 5 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. This Paragraph 5 does, however, prohibit certain conduct while Awardee is associated with the CareFusion Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, Awardee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Paragraph 5 and Awardee's
Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules
 
continuing obligations contained herein. No provisions of this Agreement shall diminish, negate or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including, but not limited to, any certificate of compliance or similar attestation/certification signed by Awardee; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Agreement are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Performance Stock Units, in consideration of employment, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Performance Stock Units and execution of this Agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Awardee and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Performance Stock Units to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made.
6. .
Payment of Vested Performance Stock Units
(a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement and Paragraphs 6(b), (c) and (d), and unless Awardee makes an effective election to defer receipt of the Shares represented by the Performance Stock Units, no later than 2
 1
/
2
months after the end of the Performance Period, the Company shall pay to Awardee (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) the Shares represented by any Performance Stock Unit to the extent it vested as provided in Paragraph 1 of this Agreement. Elections to defer receipt of the Shares beyond the date for payment provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Administrator pursuant to procedures established by the Administrator in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
(b) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if any Performance Stock Units vest as a result of Awardee's Termination of Employment due to death as provided in Paragraph 3(b) of the Agreement, the number of Shares corresponding with the vesting of such Performance Stock Units as provided in Paragraph 3(b) shall be paid within 60 days after the date of death.
Death
(c) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if any Performance Stock Units vest as a result of the occurrence of a Termination of Employment by the Company on account of Disability as provided in Paragraph 3(b) of this Agreement, Awardee shall be entitled to receive the number of Shares corresponding with the vesting of such Performance Stock Units as provided in Paragraph 3(b) on or within 60 days after the date of Termination of Employment; , , that where Section 409A of the Code applies to such distribution and Awardee is a "specified employee" (determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code), Awardee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date that is the first day of the seventh month after Awardee's "separation from service" with the Company (determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code.
Disability
provided
however
 
(d) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that such Performance Stock Units vest as a result of the occurrence of a Termination of Employment in connection with a Change of Control in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 1(b), Awardee shall be entitled to receive the number of Shares corresponding with the vesting of such Performance Stock Units as provided in Paragraph 1(b) on the date of such vesting.
Change of Control
7. . Awardee shall not be entitled to receive any cash dividends on the Performance Stock Units. However, cash payments on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date prior to the payment date described in Paragraph 6 shall be accrued until the payment date described in Paragraph 6 and paid thereon (subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying Performance Stock Units award).
Dividend Equivalents
8. . By accepting these Performance Stock Units, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee that are not treated as "non-qualified deferred compensation" under Section 409A of the Code by any member of the CareFusion Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the CareFusion Group by Awardee under this Agreement.
Right of Set-Off
9. . Awardee shall have no rights of a stockholder with respect to the Performance Stock Units, including, without limitation, any right to vote the Shares represented by the Performance Stock Units.
No Stockholder Rights
10. .
Withholding Tax
(a) . Awardee is liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the Performance Stock Units (including taxes owed with respect to any cash payments described in Paragraph 7 hereof), regardless of any action the Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Performance Stock Units. The Company does not make any representation or undertaking regarding the tax treatment or the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Performance Stock Units or the subsequent sale of Shares issuable upon settlement of the Performance Stock Units. The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the Performance Stock Units to reduce or eliminate Awardee's tax liability.
Generally
(b) . Prior to any event in connection with the Performance Stock Units (e.g., vesting or settlement) that the Company determines may result in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Awardee is required to arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company. Unless Awardee elects to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by an alternative means that is then permitted by the Company, Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement constitutes Awardee's instruction and authorization to the Company to retain on Awardee's behalf the number of Shares from those Shares issuable to Awardee under this Award, to reduce the number of unpaid Performance Stock Units or to sell or arrange for the sale of the number of Shares as the Company
Payment of Withholding Taxes
 
determines to be sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation as owed when any such obligation comes due. The value of any Shares retained or the number of Performance Stock Units reduced for such purposes shall be based on the Fair Market Value, as the term is defined in the Plan, of the Shares on the date of vesting of the Performance Stock Units. To the extent that the Company retains any Shares or reduces the number of Performance Stock Units to cover the Tax Withholding Obligation, it will do so at the minimum statutory rate, but in no event shall such amount exceed the minimum required by applicable law and regulations. The Company shall have the right to deduct from all cash payments paid pursuant to Paragraph 7 hereof the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to such payments.
11. . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superseded by the laws of the United States of America. Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the CareFusion Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies afforded the CareFusion Group hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the CareFusion Group to institute legal proceedings under this Agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this Agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Governing Law/Venue for Dispute Resolution/Costs and Legal Fees
The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Delaware bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this Agreement and that the Performance Stock Units and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this Agreement by the laws of the State of Delaware. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in state or federal courts located in the State of Delaware and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts.
12. . The parties agree that the interpretation of this Agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this Agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this Agreement. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this Agreement to an
Action by the Administrator
 
officer of the CareFusion Group designated by the Administrator (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties or such other material as the Administrator or its designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator or its designee and that any decision of the Administrator or its designee relating to this Agreement, including, without limitation, whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious.
13. . The Performance Stock Unit grant evidenced by this Agreement shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited if this Agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date.
Prompt Acceptance of Agreement
14. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Performance Stock Unit grant under and participation in the Plan or future Performance Stock Units that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of Performance Stock Unit grants and the execution of Performance Stock Unit agreements through electronic signature.
Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation
15. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below:
Notices
CareFusion Corporation
3750 Torrey View Court
San Diego, CA 92130
Attention: General Counsel
All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to Awardee.
16. . To the extent a written employment agreement, offer letter or other arrangement ("Employment Arrangement") that was approved by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors or that was approved in writing by an officer of the Company pursuant to delegated authority of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee provides for
Employment Agreement, Offer Letter or Other Arrangement
 
greater benefits to Awardee with respect to vesting of the Award on Termination of Employment than provided in this agreement or in the Plan, then the terms of such Employment Arrangement with respect to vesting of the Award on Termination of Employment by reason of such specified events shall supersede the terms hereof to the extent permitted by the terms of the Plan.
 
 
Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges receiving a copy of the Plan, which has either been previously delivered or is provided with this agreement, and represents that he or she is familiar with and understands all provisions of the Plan and this agreement; (b) voluntarily and knowingly accepts this Agreement and the Performance Stock Units granted to him or her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, including the provisions in the Agreement regarding "Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct" and "Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules" set forth in Paragraphs 4 and 5 above; (c) acknowledges previously accepting, and voluntarily and knowingly accepts, the terms of the equity awards of the Company and/or Cardinal Health, Inc. that Awardee received in connection with the spin-off of the Company from Cardinal Health, Inc., subject to all the provisions of the applicable equity incentive plan(s) under which the award(s) was granted; and (d) represents that he or she understands that the acceptance of this Agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he or she manually signed the Agreement. Awardee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's stockholders and a copy of the Plan Prospectus dated August 31, 2009 pertaining to the Plan.
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
On              (the "Grant Date"), CareFusion Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to              ("Awardee"),              Restricted Stock Units (the "Restricted Stock Units" or "Award"), representing an unfunded unsecured promise of the Company to deliver shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the "Shares") to Awardee as set forth herein. The Restricted Stock Units have been granted pursuant to the CareFusion Corporation 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), and shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the following provisions of this Restricted Stock Units Agreement (this "Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined will have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
1. . The Restricted Stock Units shall vest on the first anniversary of the Grant Date (the "Vesting Date"), subject to the provisions of this Agreement, including those relating to the Awardee's continued service on the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board").
Vesting
2. . The Restricted Stock Units shall not be transferable.
Transferability
3. .
Termination of Service on the Board
(a) . Except as set forth below, if the Awardee ceases to be a Director of the Company prior to the vesting in full of the Restricted Stock Units, any unvested portion of such Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited by Awardee.
General
(b) . If the Awardee ceases to be a Director of the Company by reason of Awardee's death prior to the vesting in full of the Restricted Stock Units, then any unvested Restricted Stock Units shall immediately vest in full on such date and shall not be forfeited.
Death
(c) . If in connection with, or within two (2) years after, a Change of Control, Awardee ceases to be a Director of the Company for any reason other than because of Awardee's death, retirement from the Board or removal from the Board for cause, then any unvested Restricted Stock Units shall immediately vest in full on the date Awardee ceases to be a Director of the Company.
Change of Control
4. . As used in this Agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall include disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties as a Director of the Company any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the Company or its subsidiaries (collectively, the "CareFusion Group"); violation of Company policies, including but not limited to conduct which would constitute a breach of any certificate of compliance or similar attestation/certification signed by Awardee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer, or
Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct
director of any entity in the CareFusion Group at any time within the twelve (12) months prior to the termination of service on the Board; any action by Awardee and/or Awardee's representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the CareFusion Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Awardee; and breaching any provision of any benefit or severance agreement with a member of the CareFusion Group. As used in this Agreement, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Awardee's service as a Director or within one year following Awardee's termination of service on the Board, accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor, or any other capacity to an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the CareFusion Group (a "Competitor") including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Awardee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Awardee's service as a Director of the Company and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this Agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur. For purposes of this Agreement, the nature and extent of Awardee's activities, if any, disclosed to and reviewed by the Governance and Compliance Committee of the Board ( the "Governance Committee") prior to the date of Awardee's termination of service on the Board shall not, unless specified to the contrary by the Governance Committee in a written notice given to Awardee, be deemed to be Competitor Triggering Conduct. The Committee shall resolve in good faith any disputes concerning whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, and any such determination by the Committee shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons.
5. . For so long as Awardee continues as a Director of the Company and for three years following Awardee's termination of service on the Board regardless of the reason, Awardee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of Competitor Triggering Conduct set forth in Paragraph 4 above, then:
Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules
(a) any Restricted Stock Units that have not yet vested or that vested within the Look-Back Period (as defined below) with respect to such Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct and have not yet been settled by a payment pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and cease to exist; and
(b) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to (x) the aggregate gross gain realized or obtained by the Awardee resulting from the settlement of all Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof (measured as of the settlement date (i.e., the market value of the Restricted Stock Units on such settlement date)) that have already been settled and that had vested at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), minus (y) $1.00. If Awardee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Awardee's termination of service on the Board, but including any period between the time of
 
Awardee's termination of service on the Board and the time Awardee engaged in Competitor Triggering Conduct. Awardee may be released from Awardee's obligations under this Paragraph 5 only if the Committee (or its duly appointed designee) authorizes, in writing and in its sole discretion, such release. Nothing in this Paragraph 5 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. However, this Paragraph 5 does prohibit certain conduct while Awardee is associated with the CareFusion Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this Agreement under certain circumstances, including but not limited to the Awardee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least ten (10) days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor, or in any other capacity to a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Paragraph 5 and of the Awardee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provision of this Agreement shall diminish, negate, or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including but not limited to any certificate of compliance or similar attestation/ certification signed by Awardee; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Paragraph 5 are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Restricted Stock Units, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Restricted Stock Units and execution of this Agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Awardee, and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Restricted Stock Units to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in this Paragraph 5 are ancillary to or part of an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made.
6.
Payment of Vested Restricted Stock Units.
(a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement and Paragraphs (b) and (c) below, and unless Awardee makes an effective election to defer receipt of the Shares represented by the Restricted Stock Units, on the date of vesting of any Restricted Stock Unit, Awardee shall be entitled to receive from the Company (without any payment on behalf of Awardee, other than those required for tax withholding purposes) the Shares represented by such Restricted Stock Unit. Elections to defer receipt of the Shares beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Committee pursuant to procedures established by the Company in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
(b) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if an Awardee experiences a Termination of Employment due to death, then all vested Restricted Stock Units that have not been paid shall be paid by the Company in Shares (without any
Death
 
payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) within 60 days after the date of death.
(c) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that the Restricted Stock Units vest prior to the Vesting Date(s) set forth in Paragraph 1 as a result of the Awardee ceasing to be a Director of the Company in connection with a Change of Control in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 3(c), all vested Restricted Stock Units that have not been paid shall be paid by the Company in Shares (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) on the date of such vesting; , , if the Change of Control occurs under circumstances that would not qualify as a permissible date of distribution under Section 409A(a)(2)(A) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder, then Awardee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the Vesting Date(s) that would have otherwise applied pursuant to Paragraph 1.
Change of Control
provided
however
7. . Awardee shall not be entitled to receive any cash dividends on the Restricted Stock Units. However, to the extent the Company determines to pay a cash dividend to holders of the Common Stock, an Awardee shall, with respect to each Restricted Stock Unit, be entitled to receive a cash payment from the Company on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date between the Grant Date and the settlement of such unit pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof, such cash payment to be in an amount equal to the dividend that would have been paid on the Common Stock represented by such unit. Cash payments on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date prior to the Vesting Date shall be accrued until the Vesting Date and paid thereon (subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying Restricted Stock Units award). Elections to defer receipt of the cash payments in lieu of cash dividends beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Committee pursuant to procedures established by the Company in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
Dividend Equivalents
8. . By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee that are not treated as "non-qualified deferred compensation" under Section 409A of the Code by any member of the CareFusion Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as Director annual retainer fees, meeting fees or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the CareFusion Group by Awardee under this Agreement.
Right of Set-Off
9. . Awardee shall have no rights of a stockholder with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, including, without limitation, any right to vote the Shares represented by the Restricted Stock Units.
No Stockholder Rights
10. . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superseded by the laws of the United States of America.
Governing Law/Venue for Dispute Resolution/Costs and Legal Fees
The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Delaware bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this Agreement and that the Restricted Stock Units and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of the Agreement by the laws of the State of Delaware. In addition, all legal
 
Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect the Awardee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that, in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the Company shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to the rights and remedies afforded the Company hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Company to institute legal proceedings under this Agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this Agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in state or federal courts located in the State of Delaware, and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts.
11. . The parties agree that the interpretation of this Agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Committee. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Committee with regard to the interpretation of this Agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this Agreement. The Committee may delegate its functions under this Agreement to an officer of the Company designated by the Committee (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Committee or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties, or such other material as the Committee or its designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Committee or its designee and that any decision of the Committee or its designee relating to this Agreement, including without limitation whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious.
Action by the Committee
12. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Restricted Stock Unit grant under and participation in the Plan or future Restricted Stock Units that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of Restricted Stock Unit grants and the execution of Restricted Stock Unit agreements through electronic signature.
Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation
 
13. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and shall be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below:
Notices
CareFusion Corporation
3750 Torrey View Court
San Diego, CA 92130
Attention: General Counsel
All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and shall be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and shall be effective upon delivery to the Awardee.
 
 
Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges receiving a copy of the Plan, which has either been previously delivered or is provided with this agreement, and represents that he or she is familiar with and understands all provisions of the Plan and this agreement; (b) voluntarily and knowingly accepts this Agreement and the Restricted Stock Units granted to him or her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, including the provisions in the Agreement regarding "Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct" and "Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules" set forth in Paragraphs 4 and 5 above; (c) acknowledges previously accepting, and voluntarily and knowingly accepts, the terms of the equity awards of the Company and/or Cardinal Health, Inc. that Awardee received in connection with the spin-off of the Company from Cardinal Health, Inc., subject to all the provisions of the applicable equity incentive plan(s) under which the award(s) was granted; and (d) represents that he or she understands that the acceptance of this Agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he or she manually signed the Agreement. Awardee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's stockholders and a copy of the Plan Prospectus dated August 31, 2009 pertaining to the Plan.
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
On             (the "Grant Date"), CareFusion Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to             ("Awardee")             Restricted Stock Units (the "Restricted Stock Units" or "Award"), representing an unfunded unsecured promise of the Company to deliver shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the "Shares") to Awardee as set forth herein. The Restricted Stock Units have been granted pursuant to the CareFusion Corporation 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), and shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the provisions of this Restricted Stock Units Agreement (this "Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined will have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
1.
Vesting.
(a) The Restricted Stock Units shall vest if and to the extent that (i) the specific performance measure set forth in of this Agreement (the "Performance Measure") equals or exceeds the designated performance target level or levels specified in of this Agreement (the "Performance Target") for the one-fiscal year period ending June 30,             (the "Performance Period") and (ii) the continuous service requirements set forth in Paragraph 3 are satisfied. Any determination that the Performance Target is achieved and that any Restricted Stock Units vest with respect to the Performance Period shall be made by written certification of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Committee") not later than the date that is 2
Appendix A
Appendix A
 1
/
2
months after the end of the Performance Period (the "Certification Date"). If the Performance Measure fails to equal or exceed the Performance Target for the Performance Period, then all outstanding Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited by Awardee.
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if within two (2) years after a Change of Control, Awardee experiences a Termination of Employment (i) by the Company for any reason other than because of Awardee's death, Disability or Termination for Cause or (ii) by Awardee for Good Reason (as defined below), then all outstanding Restricted Stock Units shall vest in full.
For purposes of this Paragraph 1(b), "Good Reason" means one or more of the following conditions (without the consent of Awardee): (i) a material reduction of Awardee's base compensation (including Base Salary or Target Bonus); (ii) a material diminution in Awardee's authority, duties, or responsibilities; (iii) a material diminution in the authority, duties, or responsibilities of the supervisor to whom Awardee is required to report; (iv) a material diminution in the budget over which Awardee retains authority; and (v) a material change in the geographic location at which Awardee must perform services, where a change of at least 35 miles or to another country will be deemed material. Awardee must provide notice to the Company of the existence of one or more of the above conditions within 90 days after the initial existence of the condition(s), upon the notice of which the Company shall have 30 days to remedy the condition(s). If the Company fails to so remedy the condition(s), the 31 day following the Company's receipt of Awardee's notice shall be deemed to be the date of Termination of Employment of Awardee for Good Reason hereunder.
2. . The Restricted Stock Units shall not be transferable.
Transferability
3. .
Continuous Service Requirement and Termination of Employment; Retirement
(a) . Except as set forth in Paragraphs 6(b), (c), (d) and (e) below, in order to receive a payment pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof with respect to Restricted Stock Units that vest based on the achievement of the Performance Target in accordance with Paragraph 1(a)(i) hereof, Awardee must remain in the continuous employ of the Company or its Affiliates through the dates specified in Paragraph 6 on which any Shares are paid, and if a Termination of Employment of Awardee occurs (other than in connection with a Change of Control in accordance with Paragraph 1(b) hereof) prior to the date Shares are paid under Paragraph 6, then all outstanding Restricted Stock Units which have not been paid shall be forfeited by Awardee.
General
(b) . If a Termination of Employment of Awardee occurs by reason of death or by the Company on account of Disability prior to any portion of the Restricted Stock Units vesting as provided in Paragraph 1 hereof, but at least six (6) months from the Grant Date, then any unvested Restricted Stock Units shall immediately vest in full on the date of such Termination of Employment and shall not be forfeited.
Termination of Employment by Reason of Death or Disability
(c) . If Awardee remains in the continuous employ of the Company or its Affiliates for at least six (6) months after the Grant Date and at such time is or thereafter becomes Retirement Eligible, then in the event the Performance Measure equals or exceeds the designated Performance Target for the Performance Period, the Awardee shall receive payment of the Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Paragraph 6 without regard to the continuous service requirements of Paragraph 3(a). For purposes of this Agreement and this Award under the Plan, "Retirement Eligible" shall mean Awardee's (i) attaining age fifty-five (55) and (ii) having at least ten (10) years of continuous service with the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. and their Affiliates, including service with an Affiliate of the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. prior to the time that such Affiliate became an Affiliate of the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. For purposes of the age and/or service requirement, the Administrator may, in its discretion, credit a Participant with additional age and/or years of service.
Retirement
4. . As used in this Agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall include the following: disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties assigned by the CareFusion Group any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the CareFusion Group; violation of Company policies, including but not limited to conduct which would constitute a breach of any certificate of compliance or similar attestation/ certification signed by Awardee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer or director of the CareFusion Group at any time within the 12 months prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment; any action by Awardee and/or his or her representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the CareFusion Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Awardee; and breaching any
Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct
 
provision of any employment or severance agreement with a member of the CareFusion Group. As used in this Agreement, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Awardee's employment or within one year following Awardee's Termination of Employment, accepting employment with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the CareFusion Group (a "Competitor"), including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Awardee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Awardee's employment with the CareFusion Group and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this Agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur.
5. . For so long as Awardee continues as an Employee with the CareFusion Group and for three years following Termination of Employment regardless of the reason, Awardee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of "Competitor Triggering Conduct" set forth in Paragraph 4 above, then:
Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules
(a) any Restricted Stock Units that have not yet vested or that vested within the Look-Back Period (as defined below) with respect to such Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct and have not yet been settled by a payment of Shares pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and cease to exist; and
(b) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to (x) the aggregate gross gain realized or obtained by Awardee resulting from the settlement of all Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof (measured as of the settlement date (i.e., the market value of the Restricted Stock Units on such settlement date)) that have already been settled and that had vested at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), minus (y) $1.00. If Awardee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, but including any period between the time of Termination of Employment and engagement in Competitor Triggering Conduct. Awardee may be released from Awardee's obligations under this Paragraph 5 if and only if the Administrator (or its duly appointed designee) authorizes, in writing and in its sole discretion, such release. Nothing in this Paragraph 5 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. This Paragraph 5 does, however, prohibit certain conduct while Awardee is associated with the CareFusion Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, Awardee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Paragraph 5 and Awardee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provisions of this Agreement shall diminish, negate or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including, but
 
not limited to, any certificate of compliance or similar attestation/certification signed by Awardee; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Agreement are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Restricted Stock Units, in consideration of employment, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Restricted Stock Units and execution of this Agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Awardee and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Restricted Stock Units to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made.
6. .
Payment of Vested Restricted Stock Units
(a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units vest in accordance with Paragraph 1 hereof, subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement and Paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) below, and unless Awardee makes an effective election to defer receipt of the Shares represented by the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be paid by the Company to the Awardee in Shares (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) in three installments, which shall be as nearly equal as possible, as follows: (i) the first installment shall be paid on the later of the Certification Date and the first anniversary of the Grant Date; (ii) the second installment shall be paid on the second anniversary of the Grant Date; and (iii) the third installment shall be paid on the third anniversary of the Grant Date, subject in each case to the provisions of this Agreement, including those relating to the Awardee's continued employment with the Company or its Affiliates. Elections to defer receipt of the Shares beyond the date for payment provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Administrator pursuant to procedures established by the Administrator in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
(b) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event Awardee is or becomes Retirement Eligible, and as a result of the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units becomes subject to a Tax Withholding Obligation (as defined in Paragraph 10(b)), then Awardee shall be required to arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of any related Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company. To satisfy any related Tax Withholding Obligation, Awardee shall, in accordance with and subject to Paragraph 10(b), be entitled to (i) receive, to the extent permitted by Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(vi), a number of corresponding Shares with an aggregate market value equal to the amount necessary to satisfy such obligation, and the Company is authorized to retain on Awardee's behalf or sell or arrange for the sale of the number of Shares that the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy such obligation or (ii) reduce the number of unpaid Restricted Stock Units by the number of Shares as the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy such obligation. Awardee shall be entitled to receive the Shares corresponding to the remaining Restricted Stock Units on the
Retirement
 
applicable date specified in Paragraph 6(a); provided, however, that if an Awardee who is Retirement Eligible experiences a Termination of Employment due to death, Disability or in connection with a Change in Control, payment of Shares for such Restricted Stock Units will instead be made in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) below, as applicable.
(c) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if an Awardee experiences a Termination of Employment due to death, then all vested Restricted Stock Units (including Restricted Stock Units that vest in accordance with Paragraph 3(b) of this Agreement) that have not been paid shall be paid by the Company in Shares (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) within 60 days after the date of death.
Death
(d) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if an Awardee experiences a Termination of Employment by the Company on account of Disability, then all vested Restricted Stock Units (including Restricted Stock Units that vest in accordance with Paragraph 3(b) of this Agreement) that have not been paid shall be paid by the Company in Shares (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) within 60 days after the date of Termination of Employment; , , that where Section 409A of the Code applies to such distribution and Awardee is a "specified employee" (determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code), Awardee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date that is the first day of the seventh month after Awardee's "separation from service" with the Company (determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code
Disability
provided
however
(e) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that such Restricted Stock Units vest as a result of the occurrence of a Termination of Employment in connection with a Change of Control in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 1(b), all vested Restricted Stock Units (including Restricted Stock Units that vest in accordance with Paragraph 3(b) of this Agreement) that have not been paid shall be paid by the Company in Shares (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) on the date of such vesting.
Change of Control
7. . Awardee shall not be entitled to receive any cash dividends on the Restricted Stock Units. However, to the extent the Company determines to pay a cash dividend to holders of the Common Stock, an Awardee shall, with respect to each Restricted Stock Unit, be entitled to receive a cash payment from the Company on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date between the Grant Date and the settlement of such unit pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof, such cash payment to be in an amount equal to the dividend that would have been paid on the Common Stock represented by such unit. Cash payments on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date prior to the payment date described in Paragraph 6 shall be accrued until the payment date described in Paragraph 6 and paid thereon (subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying Restricted Stock Units award). Elections to defer receipt of the cash payments in lieu of cash dividends beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Committee pursuant to procedures established by the Company in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
Dividend Equivalents
 
8. . By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee that are not treated as "non-qualified deferred compensation" under Section 409A of the Code by any member of the CareFusion Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the CareFusion Group by Awardee under this Agreement.
Right of Set-Off
9. . Awardee shall have no rights of a stockholder with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, including, without limitation, any right to vote the Shares represented by the Restricted Stock Units.
No Stockholder Rights
10. .
Withholding Tax
(a) . Awardee is liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the Restricted Stock Units (including taxes owed with respect to any cash payments described in Paragraph 7 hereof), regardless of any action the Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units. The Company does not make representation or undertaking regarding the tax treatment or the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Restricted Stock Units or the subsequent sale of Shares issuable upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units. The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate Awardee's tax liability.
Generally
any
(b) . Prior to any event in connection with the Restricted Stock Units (e.g., vesting or settlement) that the Company determines may result in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Awardee is required to arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company. Unless Awardee elects to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by an alternative means that is then permitted by the Company, Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement constitutes Awardee's instruction and authorization to the Company to retain on Awardee's behalf the number of Shares from those Shares issuable to Awardee under this Award, to reduce the number of unpaid Restricted Stock Units or to sell or arrange for the sale of the number of Shares as the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation as owed when any such obligation comes due. The value of any Shares retained or the number of Restricted Stock Units reduced for such purposes shall be based on the Fair Market Value, as the term is defined in the Plan, of the Shares on the date of vesting of the Restricted Stock Units. To the extent that the Company retains any Shares or reduces the number of Restricted Stock Units to cover the Tax Withholding Obligation, it will do so at the minimum statutory rate, but in no event shall such amount exceed the minimum required by applicable law and regulations. The Company shall have the right to deduct from all cash payments paid pursuant to Paragraph 7 hereof the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to such payments.
Payment of Withholding Taxes
11. . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superseded by the laws of the United States of America.
Governing Law/Venue for Dispute Resolution/Costs and Legal Fees
The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Delaware bear a
 
Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the CareFusion Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies afforded the CareFusion Group hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the CareFusion Group to institute legal proceedings under this Agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this Agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
substantial relationship to the parties and/or this Agreement and that the Restricted Stock Units and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this Agreement by the laws of the State of Delaware. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in state or federal courts located in the State of Delaware and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts.
12. . The parties agree that the interpretation of this Agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this Agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this Agreement. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this Agreement to an officer of the CareFusion Group designated by the Administrator (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties or such other material as the Administrator or its designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator or its designee and that any decision of the Administrator or its designee relating to this Agreement, including, without limitation, whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious.
Action by the Administrator
13. . The Restricted Stock Unit grant evidenced by this Agreement shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited if this Agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date.
Prompt Acceptance of Agreement
 
14. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Restricted Stock Unit grant under and participation in the Plan or future Restricted Stock Units that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of Restricted Stock Unit grants and the execution of Restricted Stock Unit agreements through electronic signature.
Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation
15. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below:
Notices
CareFusion Corporation
3750 Torrey View Court
San Diego, CA 92130
Attention: General Counsel
All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to Awardee.
16. . To the extent a written employment agreement, offer letter or other arrangement ("Employment Arrangement") that was approved by the Committee or the Board of Directors or that was approved in writing by an officer of the Company pursuant to delegated authority of the Committee provides for greater benefits to Awardee with respect to vesting of the Award on Termination of Employment than provided in this agreement or in the Plan, then the terms of such Employment Arrangement with respect to vesting of the Award on Termination of Employment by reason of such specified events shall supersede the terms hereof to the extent permitted by the terms of the Plan.
Employment Agreement, Offer Letter or Other Arrangement
 
 
Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges receiving a copy of the Plan, which has either been previously delivered or is provided with this agreement, and represents that he or she is familiar with and understands all provisions of the Plan and this agreement; (b) voluntarily and knowingly accepts this Agreement and the Restricted Stock Units granted to him or her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, including the provisions in the Agreement regarding "Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct" and "Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules" set forth in Paragraphs 4 and 5 above; (c) acknowledges previously accepting, and voluntarily and knowingly accepts, the terms of the equity awards of the Company and/or Cardinal Health, Inc. that Awardee received in connection with the spin-off of the Company from Cardinal Health, Inc., subject to all the provisions of the applicable equity incentive plan(s) under which the award(s) was granted; and (d) represents that he or she understands that the acceptance of this Agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he or she manually signed the Agreement. Awardee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's stockholders and a copy of the Plan Prospectus dated August 31, 2009 pertaining to the Plan.
 
 

Exhibit 99.5
 
On             (the "Grant Date"), CareFusion Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to             ("Awardee")             Restricted Stock Units (the "Restricted Stock Units" or "Award"), representing an unfunded unsecured promise of the Company to deliver shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the "Shares") to Awardee as set forth herein. The Restricted Stock Units have been granted pursuant to the CareFusion Corporation 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), and shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the provisions of this Restricted Stock Units Agreement (this "Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined will have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
1. . The Restricted Stock Units shall vest in three installments, which shall be as nearly equal as possible, on the first three anniversaries of the Grant Date (each a "Vesting Date" with respect to the portion of the Restricted Stock Units scheduled to vest on such date), subject in each case to the provisions of this Agreement, including those relating to the Awardee's continued employment with the Company and its Affiliates (collectively, the "CareFusion Group").
Vesting
2. . The Restricted Stock Units shall not be transferable.
Transferability
3. .
Continuous Service Requirement and Termination of Employment; Retirement
(a) . Except as set forth below, if a Termination of Employment of Awardee occurs prior to the vesting in full of the Restricted Stock Units, any unvested portion of such Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited by Awardee.
General
(b) . If a Termination of Employment of Awardee occurs by reason of death or by the Company on account of Disability prior to any portion of the Restricted Stock Units vesting as provided in Paragraph 1 hereof, but at least six (6) months from the Grant Date, then any unvested Restricted Stock Units shall immediately vest in full on the date of such Termination of Employment and shall not be forfeited.
Termination of Employment by Reason of Death or Disability
(c) . If Awardee remains in the continuous employ of the Company or its Affiliates for at least six (6) months after the Grant Date and at such time is or thereafter becomes Retirement Eligible, then any unvested Restricted Stock Units shall immediately vest in full, and Awardee shall receive the Shares in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 6. For purposes of this Agreement and this Award under the Plan, "Retirement Eligible" shall mean Awardee's (i) attaining age fifty-five (55) and (ii) having at least ten (10) years of continuous service with the with the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. and their Affiliates, including service with an Affiliate of the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. prior to the time that such Affiliate became an Affiliate of the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. For purposes of the age and/or service requirement, the Administrator may, in its discretion, credit a Participant with additional age and/or years of service.
Retirement
(d) . If within two (2) years after a Change of Control, Awardee experiences a Termination of Employment (i) by the Company for any reason other than because of Awardee's death, Disability or Termination for Cause or (ii) by Awardee for Good Reason (as defined below), then any unvested portion of such Restricted Stock Units shall immediately vest in full on such date of Termination of Employment.
Termination in Connection with a Change of Control
For purposes of this Paragraph 3(d), "Good Reason" means one or more of the following conditions (without the consent of Awardee): (i) a material reduction of Awardee's base compensation (including Base Salary or Target Bonus); (ii) a material diminution in Awardee's authority, duties, or responsibilities; (iii) a material diminution in the authority, duties, or responsibilities of the supervisor to whom Awardee is required to report; (iv) a material diminution in the budget over which Awardee retains authority; and (v) a material change in the geographic location at which Awardee must perform services, where a change of at least 35 miles or to another country will be deemed material. Awardee must provide notice to the Company of the existence of one or more of the above conditions within 90 days after the initial existence of the condition(s), upon the notice of which the Company shall have 30 days to remedy the condition(s). If the Company fails to so remedy the condition(s), the 31 day following the Company's receipt of Awardee's notice shall be deemed to be the date of Termination of Employment of Awardee for Good Reason hereunder.
4. . As used in this Agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall include the following: disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties assigned by the CareFusion Group any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the CareFusion Group; violation of Company policies, including but not limited to conduct which would constitute a breach of any certificate of compliance or similar attestation/ certification signed by Awardee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer or director of the CareFusion Group at any time within the 12 months prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment; any action by Awardee and/or his or her representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the CareFusion Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Awardee; and breaching any provision of any employment or severance agreement with a member of the CareFusion Group. As used in this Agreement, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Awardee's employment or within one year following Awardee's Termination of Employment, accepting employment with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the CareFusion Group (a "Competitor"), including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Awardee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Awardee's employment with the CareFusion Group and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of
Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct
 
disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this Agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur.
5. . For so long as Awardee continues as an Employee with the CareFusion Group and for three years following Termination of Employment regardless of the reason, Awardee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of "Competitor Triggering Conduct" set forth in Paragraph 4 above, then:
Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules
(a) any Restricted Stock Units that have not yet vested or that vested within the Look-Back Period (as defined below) with respect to such Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct and have not yet been settled by a payment pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and cease to exist; and
(b) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to (x) the aggregate gross gain realized or obtained by Awardee resulting from the settlement of all Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof (measured as of the settlement date (i.e., the market value of the Restricted Stock Units on such settlement date)) that have already been settled and that had vested at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), minus (y) $1.00. If Awardee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, but including any period between the time of Termination of Employment and engagement in Competitor Triggering Conduct. Awardee may be released from Awardee's obligations under this Paragraph 5 if and only if the Administrator (or its duly appointed designee) authorizes, in writing and in its sole discretion, such release. Nothing in this Paragraph 5 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. This Paragraph 5 does, however, prohibit certain conduct while Awardee is associated with the CareFusion Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, Awardee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Paragraph 5 and Awardee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provisions of this Agreement shall diminish, negate or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including, but not limited to, any certificate of compliance or similar attestation/certification signed by Awardee; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Agreement are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Restricted Stock Units, in consideration of employment, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations
 
and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Restricted Stock Units and execution of this Agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Awardee and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Restricted Stock Units to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made.
6. .
Payment of Vested Restricted Stock Units
(a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement and Paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) below, and unless Awardee makes an effective election to defer receipt of the Shares represented by the Restricted Stock Units, on the date of vesting of any Restricted Stock Unit, Awardee shall be entitled to receive from the Company (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) the Shares represented by such Restricted Stock Unit. Elections to defer receipt of the Shares beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Administrator pursuant to procedures established by the Administrator in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
(b) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event Awardee is or becomes Retirement Eligible, and as a result of the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units becomes subject to a Tax Withholding Obligation (as defined in Paragraph 10(b)), Awardee shall be required to arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of any related Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company. To satisfy any related Tax Withholding Obligation, Awardee shall, in accordance with and subject to Paragraph 10(b), be entitled to (i) receive, to the extent permitted by Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(vi), a number of corresponding Shares with an aggregate market value equal to the amount necessary to satisfy such obligation, and the Company is authorized to retain on Awardee's behalf or sell or arrange for the sale of the number of Shares that the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy such obligation or (ii) reduce the number of unpaid Restricted Stock Units by the number of Shares as the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy such obligation. Awardee shall be entitled to receive the Shares corresponding to the remaining Restricted Stock Units on the applicable Vesting Date(s) in the portions set forth on the vesting schedule provided in Paragraph 1; provided, however, that if an Awardee who is Retirement Eligible experiences a Termination of Employment due to death, Disability or in connection with a Change in Control, payment of Shares for such Restricted Stock Units will instead be made in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) below, as applicable.
Retirement
(c) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if an Awardee experiences a Termination of Employment due to death, then all vested Restricted Stock Units (including Restricted Stock Units that vest in accordance with Paragraph 3(b) of this Agreement) that have not been paid shall be paid by the Company in Shares (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) within 60 days after the date of death.
Death
 
(d) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if an Awardee experiences a Termination of Employment by the Company on account of Disability, then all vested Restricted Stock Units (including Restricted Stock Units that vest in accordance with Paragraph 3(b) of this Agreement) that have not been paid shall be paid by the Company in Shares (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) within 60 days after the date of Termination of Employment; , , that where Section 409A of the Code applies to such distribution and Awardee is a "specified employee" (determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code), Awardee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date that is the first day of the seventh month after Awardee's "separation from service" with the Company (determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code).
Disability
provided
however
(e) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that such Restricted Stock Units vest prior to the Vesting Date(s) set forth in Paragraph 1 as a result of a Termination of Employment in connection with a Change of Control in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 3(d), all vested Restricted Stock Units (including Restricted Stock Units that vest in accordance with Paragraph 3(b) of this Agreement) that have not been paid shall be paid by the Company in Shares (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) on the date of such vesting.
Change of Control
7. . Awardee shall not be entitled to receive any cash dividends on the Restricted Stock Units. However, to the extent the Company determines to pay a cash dividend to holders of the Common Stock, an Awardee shall, with respect to each Restricted Stock Unit, be entitled to receive a cash payment from the Company on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date between the Grant Date and the settlement of such unit pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof, such cash payment to be in an amount equal to the dividend that would have been paid on the Common Stock represented by such unit. Cash payments on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date prior to a Vesting Date shall be accrued until the Vesting Date and paid thereon (subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying Restricted Stock Units award). Elections to defer receipt of the cash payments in lieu of cash dividends beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Committee pursuant to procedures established by the Company in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
Dividend Equivalents
8. . By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee that are not treated as "non-qualified deferred compensation" under Section 409A of the Code by any member of the CareFusion Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the CareFusion Group by Awardee under this Agreement.
Right of Set-Off
9. . Awardee shall have no rights of a stockholder with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, including, without limitation, any right to vote the Shares represented by the Restricted Stock Units.
No Stockholder Rights
 
10. .
Withholding Tax
(a) . Awardee is liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the Restricted Stock Units (including taxes owed with respect to any cash payments described in Paragraph 7 hereof), regardless of any action the Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units. The Company does not make representation or undertaking regarding the tax treatment or the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Restricted Stock Units or the subsequent sale of Shares issuable upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units. The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate Awardee's tax liability.
Generally
any
(b) . Prior to any event in connection with the Restricted Stock Units (e.g., vesting or settlement) that the Company determines may result in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Awardee is required to arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company. Unless Awardee elects to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by an alternative means that is then permitted by the Company, Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement constitutes Awardee's instruction and authorization to the Company to retain on Awardee's behalf the number of Shares from those Shares issuable to Awardee under this Award, to reduce the number of unpaid Restricted Stock Units or to sell or arrange for the sale of the number of Shares as the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation as owed when any such obligation comes due. The value of any Shares retained or the number of Restricted Stock Units reduced for such purposes shall be based on the Fair Market Value, as the term is defined in the Plan, of the Shares on the date of vesting of the Restricted Stock Units. To the extent that the Company retains any Shares or reduces the number of Restricted Stock Units to cover the Tax Withholding Obligation, it will do so at the minimum statutory rate, but in no event shall such amount exceed the minimum required by applicable law and regulations. The Company shall have the right to deduct from all cash payments paid pursuant to Paragraph 7 hereof the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to such payments.
Payment of Withholding Taxes
11. . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a
Governing Law/Venue for Dispute Resolution/Costs and Legal Fees
The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Delaware bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this Agreement and that the Restricted Stock Units and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this Agreement by the laws of the State of Delaware. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in state or federal courts located in the State of Delaware and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts.
 
living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the CareFusion Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies afforded the CareFusion Group hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the CareFusion Group to institute legal proceedings under this Agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this Agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
12. . The parties agree that the interpretation of this Agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this Agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this Agreement. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this Agreement to an officer of the CareFusion Group designated by the Administrator (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties or such other material as the Administrator or its designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator or its designee and that any decision of the Administrator or its designee relating to this Agreement, including, without limitation, whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious.
Action by the Administrator
13. . The Restricted Stock Unit grant evidenced by this Agreement shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited if this Agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date.
Prompt Acceptance of Agreement
14. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Restricted Stock Unit grant under and participation in the Plan or future Restricted Stock Units that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of Restricted Stock Unit grants and the execution of Restricted Stock Unit agreements through electronic signature.
Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation
 
15. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below:
Notices
CareFusion Corporation
3750 Torrey View Court
San Diego, CA 92130
Attention: General Counsel
All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Awardee.
16. . To the extent a written employment agreement, offer letter or other arrangement ("Employment Arrangement") that was approved by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors or that was approved in writing by an officer of the Company pursuant to delegated authority of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee provides for greater benefits to Awardee with respect to vesting of the Award on Termination of Employment than provided in this agreement or in the Plan, then the terms of such Employment Arrangement with respect to vesting of the Award on Termination of Employment by reason of such specified events shall supersede the terms hereof to the extent permitted by the terms of the Plan.
Employment Agreement, Offer Letter or Other Arrangement
 
 
Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges receiving a copy of the Plan, which has either been previously delivered or is provided with this agreement, and represents that he or she is familiar with and understands all provisions of the Plan and this agreement; (b) voluntarily and knowingly accepts this Agreement and the Restricted Stock Units granted to him or her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, including the provisions in the Agreement regarding "Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct" and "Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules" set forth in Paragraphs 4 and 5 above; (c) acknowledges previously accepting, and voluntarily and knowingly accepts, the terms of the equity awards of the Company and/or Cardinal Health, Inc. that Awardee received in connection with the spin-off of the Company from Cardinal Health, Inc., subject to all the provisions of the applicable equity incentive plan(s) under which the award(s) was granted; and (d) represents that he or she understands that the acceptance of this Agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he or she manually signed the Agreement. Awardee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's stockholders and a copy of the Plan Prospectus dated August 31, 2009 pertaining to the Plan.
 

Exhibit 99.6
 
On             (the "Grant Date"), CareFusion Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to             ("Awardee")             Restricted Stock Units (the "Restricted Stock Units" or "Award"), representing an unfunded unsecured promise of the Company to deliver shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the "Shares") to Awardee as set forth herein. The Restricted Stock Units have been granted pursuant to the CareFusion Corporation 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), and shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the provisions of this Restricted Stock Units Agreement (this "Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined will have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
1. . The Restricted Stock Units shall vest in full on the third anniversary of the Grant Date, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, including those relating to the Awardee's continued employment with the Company and its Affiliates (collectively, the "CareFusion Group").
Vesting
2. . The Restricted Stock Units shall not be transferable.
Transferability
3. .
Continuous Service Requirement and Termination of Employment; Retirement
(a) . Except as set forth below, if a Termination of Employment of Awardee occurs prior to the vesting in full of the Restricted Stock Units, any unvested portion of such Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited by Awardee.
General
(b) . If a Termination of Employment of Awardee occurs by reason of death or by the Company on account of Disability prior to any portion of the Restricted Stock Units vesting as provided in Paragraph 1 hereof, but at least six (6) months from the Grant Date, then any unvested Restricted Stock Units shall immediately vest in full on the date of such Termination of Employment and shall not be forfeited.
Termination of Employment by Reason of Death or Disability
(c) . If Awardee remains in the continuous employ of the Company or its Affiliates for at least six (6) months after the Grant Date and at such time is or thereafter becomes Retirement Eligible, then any unvested Restricted Stock Units shall immediately vest in full, and Awardee shall receive the Shares in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 6. For purposes of this Agreement and this Award under the Plan, "Retirement Eligible" shall mean Awardee's (i) attaining age fifty-five (55) and (ii) having at least ten (10) years of continuous service with the with the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. and their Affiliates, including service with an Affiliate of the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. prior to the time that such Affiliate became an Affiliate of the Company or Cardinal Health, Inc. For purposes of the age and/or service requirement, the Administrator may, in its discretion, credit a Participant with additional age and/or years of service.
Retirement
(d) . If within two (2) years after a Change of Control, Awardee experiences a Termination of Employment (i) by
Termination in Connection with a Change of Control
the Company for any reason other than because of Awardee's death, Disability or Termination for Cause or (ii) by Awardee for Good Reason (as defined below), then any unvested Restricted Stock Units shall immediately vest in full on such date of Termination of Employment.
For purposes of this Paragraph 3(d), "Good Reason" means one or more of the following conditions (without the consent of Awardee): (i) a material reduction of Awardee's base compensation (including Base Salary or Target Bonus); (ii) a material diminution in Awardee's authority, duties, or responsibilities; (iii) a material diminution in the authority, duties, or responsibilities of the supervisor to whom Awardee is required to report; (iv) a material diminution in the budget over which Awardee retains authority; and (v) a material change in the geographic location at which Awardee must perform services, where a change of at least 35 miles or to another country will be deemed material. Awardee must provide notice to the Company of the existence of one or more of the above conditions within 90 days after the initial existence of the condition(s), upon the notice of which the Company shall have 30 days to remedy the condition(s). If the Company fails to so remedy the condition(s), the 31 day following the Company's receipt of Awardee's notice shall be deemed to be the date of Termination of Employment of Awardee for Good Reason hereunder.
4. . As used in this Agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall include the following: disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties assigned by the CareFusion Group any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the CareFusion Group; violation of Company policies, including but not limited to conduct which would constitute a breach of any certificate of compliance or similar attestation/ certification signed by Awardee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer or director of the CareFusion Group at any time within the 12 months prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment; any action by Awardee and/or his or her representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the CareFusion Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Awardee; and breaching any provision of any employment or severance agreement with a member of the CareFusion Group. As used in this Agreement, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Awardee's employment or within one year following Awardee's Termination of Employment, accepting employment with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the CareFusion Group (a "Competitor"), including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Awardee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Awardee's employment with the CareFusion Group and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this Agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur.
Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct
 
5. . For so long as Awardee continues as an Employee with the CareFusion Group and for three years following Termination of Employment regardless of the reason, Awardee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of "Competitor Triggering Conduct" set forth in Paragraph 4 above, then:
Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules
(a) any Restricted Stock Units that have not yet vested or that vested within the Look-Back Period (as defined below) with respect to such Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct and have not yet been settled by a payment pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and cease to exist; and
(b) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to (x) the aggregate gross gain realized or obtained by Awardee resulting from the settlement of all Restricted Stock Units pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof (measured as of the settlement date (i.e., the market value of the Restricted Stock Units on such settlement date)) that have already been settled and that had vested at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), minus (y) $1.00. If Awardee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, but including any period between the time of Termination of Employment and engagement in Competitor Triggering Conduct. Awardee may be released from Awardee's obligations under this Paragraph 5 if and only if the Administrator (or its duly appointed designee) authorizes, in writing and in its sole discretion, such release. Nothing in this Paragraph 5 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. This Paragraph 5 does, however, prohibit certain conduct while Awardee is associated with the CareFusion Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, Awardee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Paragraph 5 and Awardee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provisions of this Agreement shall diminish, negate or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including, but not limited to, any certificate of compliance or similar attestation/certification signed by Awardee; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Agreement are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Restricted Stock Units, in consideration of employment, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Restricted Stock Units and execution of this Agreement are voluntary actions
 
on the part of Awardee and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Restricted Stock Units to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made.
6. .
Payment of Vested Restricted Stock Units
(a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement and Paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) below, and unless Awardee makes an effective election to defer receipt of the Shares represented by the Restricted Stock Units, on the date of vesting of any Restricted Stock Unit, Awardee shall be entitled to receive from the Company (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) the Shares represented by such Restricted Stock Unit. Elections to defer receipt of the Shares beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Administrator pursuant to procedures established by the Administrator in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
(b) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event Awardee is or becomes Retirement Eligible, and as a result of the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units becomes subject to a Tax Withholding Obligation (as defined in Paragraph 10(b)), Awardee shall be required to arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of any related Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company. To satisfy any related Tax Withholding Obligation, Awardee shall, in accordance with and subject to Paragraph 10(b), be entitled to (i) receive, to the extent permitted by Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(vi), a number of corresponding Shares with an aggregate market value equal to the amount necessary to satisfy such obligation, and the Company is authorized to retain on Awardee's behalf or sell or arrange for the sale of the number of Shares that the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy such obligation or (ii) reduce the number of unpaid Restricted Stock Units by the number of Shares as the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy such obligation. Awardee shall be entitled to receive the Shares corresponding to the remaining Restricted Stock Units on the applicable Vesting Date(s) in the portions set forth on the vesting schedule provided in Paragraph 1; provided, however, that if an Awardee who is Retirement Eligible experiences a Termination of Employment due to death, Disability or in connection with a Change in Control, payment of Shares for such Restricted Stock Units will instead be made in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) below, as applicable.
Retirement
(c) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if an Awardee experiences a Termination of Employment due to death, then all vested Restricted Stock Units (including Restricted Stock Units that vest in accordance with Paragraph 3(b) of this Agreement) that have not been paid shall be paid by the Company in Shares (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) within 60 days after the date of death.
Death
(d) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if an Awardee experiences a Termination of Employment by the Company on account of Disability, then all vested Restricted Stock Units (including Restricted Stock Units that vest
Disability
 
in accordance with Paragraph 3(b) of this Agreement) that have not been paid shall be paid by the Company in Shares (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) within 60 days after the date of Termination of Employment; , , that where Section 409A of the Code applies to such distribution and Awardee is a "specified employee" (determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code), Awardee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date that is the first day of the seventh month after Awardee's "separation from service" with the Company (determined in accordance with Section 409A of the Code).
provided
however
(e) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that such Restricted Stock Units vest prior to the Vesting Date(s) set forth in Paragraph 1 as a result of a Termination of Employment in connection with a Change of Control in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 3(d), all vested Restricted Stock Units (including Restricted Stock Units that vest in accordance with Paragraph 3(b) of this Agreement) that have not been paid shall be paid by the Company in Shares (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) on the date of such vesting.
Change of Control
7. . Awardee shall not be entitled to receive any cash dividends on the Restricted Stock Units. However, to the extent the Company determines to pay a cash dividend to holders of the Common Stock, an Awardee shall, with respect to each Restricted Stock Unit, be entitled to receive a cash payment from the Company on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date between the Grant Date and the settlement of such unit pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof, such cash payment to be in an amount equal to the dividend that would have been paid on the Common Stock represented by such unit. Cash payments on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date prior to a Vesting Date shall be accrued until the Vesting Date and paid thereon (subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying Restricted Stock Units award). Elections to defer receipt of the cash payments in lieu of cash dividends beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Committee pursuant to procedures established by the Company in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
Dividend Equivalents
8. . By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee that are not treated as "non-qualified deferred compensation" under Section 409A of the Code by any member of the CareFusion Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the CareFusion Group by Awardee under this Agreement.
Right of Set-Off
9. . Awardee shall have no rights of a stockholder with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, including, without limitation, any right to vote the Shares represented by the Restricted Stock Units.
No Stockholder Rights
10. .
Withholding Tax
(a) . Awardee is liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the Restricted Stock Units (including taxes owed with respect to any cash
Generally
 
payments described in Paragraph 7 hereof), regardless of any action the Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units. The Company does not make representation or undertaking regarding the tax treatment or the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Restricted Stock Units or the subsequent sale of Shares issuable upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units. The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate Awardee's tax liability.
any
(b) . Prior to any event in connection with the Restricted Stock Units (e.g., vesting or settlement) that the Company determines may result in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Awardee is required to arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company. Unless Awardee elects to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by an alternative means that is then permitted by the Company, Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement constitutes Awardee's instruction and authorization to the Company to retain on Awardee's behalf the number of Shares from those Shares issuable to Awardee under this Award, to reduce the number of unpaid Restricted Stock Units or to sell or arrange for the sale of the number of Shares as the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation as owed when any such obligation comes due. The value of any Shares retained or the number of Restricted Stock Units reduced for such purposes shall be based on the Fair Market Value, as the term is defined in the Plan, of the Shares on the date of vesting of the Restricted Stock Units. To the extent that the Company retains any Shares or reduces the number of Restricted Stock Units to cover the Tax Withholding Obligation, it will do so at the minimum statutory rate, but in no event shall such amount exceed the minimum required by applicable law and regulations. The Company shall have the right to deduct from all cash payments paid pursuant to Paragraph 7 hereof the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to such payments.
Payment of Withholding Taxes
11. . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee
Governing Law/Venue for Dispute Resolution/Costs and Legal Fees
The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Delaware bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this Agreement and that the Restricted Stock Units and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this Agreement by the laws of the State of Delaware. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in state or federal courts located in the State of Delaware and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts.
 
contained in this Agreement, the CareFusion Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies afforded the CareFusion Group hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the CareFusion Group to institute legal proceedings under this Agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this Agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
12. . The parties agree that the interpretation of this Agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this Agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this Agreement. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this Agreement to an officer of the CareFusion Group designated by the Administrator (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties or such other material as the Administrator or its designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator or its designee and that any decision of the Administrator or its designee relating to this Agreement, including, without limitation, whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious.
Action by the Administrator
13. . The Restricted Stock Unit grant evidenced by this Agreement shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited if this Agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date.
Prompt Acceptance of Agreement
14. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Restricted Stock Unit grant under and participation in the Plan or future Restricted Stock Units that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of Restricted Stock Unit grants and the execution of Restricted Stock Unit agreements through electronic signature.
Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation
15. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, nationally recognized
Notices
 
overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below:
CareFusion Corporation
3750 Torrey View Court
San Diego, CA 92130
Attention: General Counsel
All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Awardee.
16. . To the extent a written employment agreement, offer letter or other arrangement ("Employment Arrangement") that was approved by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors or that was approved in writing by an officer of the Company pursuant to delegated authority of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee provides for greater benefits to Awardee with respect to vesting of the Award on Termination of Employment than provided in this agreement or in the Plan, then the terms of such Employment Arrangement with respect to vesting of the Award on Termination of Employment by reason of such specified events shall supersede the terms hereof to the extent permitted by the terms of the Plan.
Employment Agreement, Offer Letter or Other Arrangement
 
 
Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges receiving a copy of the Plan, which has either been previously delivered or is provided with this agreement, and represents that he or she is familiar with and understands all provisions of the Plan and this agreement; (b) voluntarily and knowingly accepts this Agreement and the Restricted Stock Units granted to him or her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, including the provisions in the Agreement regarding "Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct" and "Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules" set forth in Paragraphs 4 and 5 above; (c) acknowledges previously accepting, and voluntarily and knowingly accepts, the terms of the equity awards of the Company and/or Cardinal Health, Inc. that Awardee received in connection with the spin-off of the Company from Cardinal Health, Inc., subject to all the provisions of the applicable equity incentive plan(s) under which the award(s) was granted; and (d) represents that he or she understands that the acceptance of this Agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he or she manually signed the Agreement. Awardee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to stockholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's stockholders and a copy of the Plan Prospectus dated August 31, 2009 pertaining to the Plan.
 

Exhibit 99.7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CareFusion Corporation Severance Plan (the "," as defined below) is intended to provide Severance Benefits to Eligible Employees of CareFusion Corporation (the "," as defined below) and its Related Companies. The Plan was initially effective as of September 1, 2009. The Plan was amended and restated effective as of July 1, 2012.
Plan
Company
The Plan is an unfunded welfare benefit plan for purposes of ERISA and a severance pay plan within the meaning of section 2510.3-2(b) of the regulations of the Department of Labor. This document shall serve as the Plan document, as required under section 402 of ERISA and the Summary Plan Description, as required under section 102 of ERISA.
 
Wherever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated below, unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context. The singular shall include the plural, unless the context indicates otherwise.
(a) "" means the CareFusion Corporation Benefits Administrative Committee or such other entity as may be designated by the Plan Administrator as the claims fiduciary for all claims for benefits under the Plan.
Benefits Administrative Committee
(b) "" means the Employee's base salary or rate of pay based on wages paid to the Employee over the 52 weeks immediately preceding the Employee's Separation from Service, including commissions, draws, sales incentive earnings, paid time off and wages paid for holidays and jury duty within such 52-week period, as well as elective deferrals under an arrangement described in section 401(k) of the Code, Employee contributions to a cafeteria plan as defined in section 125 of the Code and compensation paid or accrued under a plan deferring the receipt of compensation as described in section 404(a) of the Code and the regulations of the Internal Revenue Service issued thereunder. Base Compensation shall also exclude (i) any overtime pay and shift differential payments for hourly Employees and (ii) any bonuses, whether based on individual or Company performance (such as bonuses paid under the Management Incentive Plan, the Employee Bonus Plan and the CareFusion Corporation 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan). Base Compensation may reflect a merit adjustment, as determined by the Employer, in its discretion.
Base Compensation
(c) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(d) "" means a period of 12 consecutive months commencing on the date of the Employee's Separation from Service, and ending on the Employee's Date of Rehire as an Employee.
Break in Service
(e) "" means the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended from time to time.
COBRA
(f) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
(g) "" means CareFusion Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
Company
(h) "" means all cumulative periods beginning on an Employee's Date of Hire during which the Employee is paid, or entitled to payment, by an Employer for the provision of services or otherwise accrues service, as determined by the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion. "Continuous Service" includes paid time off, any approved leaves of absence and any period of short-term or long-term disability while an Employee, other than any period of absence that constitutes a Break in Service, provided that "Continuous Service" shall include any period during which the Employee provided services as an Employee or otherwise accrued service with an Employer prior to the Break in Service, as determined by the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, if the Employee is rehired by an Employer following the Employee's Break in Service. In the discretion of the Plan Administrator, "Continuous Service" may also include service performed for or accrued with an Employer before the Employee becomes an Eligible Employee or during any period in which the Employee was an Eligible Employee, service performed for or accrued with a Related Company before such company becomes part of a common controlled group with the Company (pursuant to section 414(b) or (c) of the Code) and service performed for or accrued with Cardinal Health, Inc. or any of its affiliated entities if the Employee became an Employee as a result of the spin-off of the Company from Cardinal Health, Inc. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Continuous Service shall not include any service for which the Employee received severance benefits under any other group severance, salary continuation or separation pay plan, program or guideline sponsored by any Employer or Related Company or by Cardinal Health, Inc.
Continuous Service
(i) "" means the first date on which an Employee is employed by an Employer.
Date of Hire
(j) "" means the latest date on which an Employee is again employed by an Employer, if the Employee is rehired by an Employer following the Employee's Break in Service
Date of Rehire
.
(k) "" means an individual of the same or opposite sex, subject to the following:
Domestic Partner
(i) Is considered to be the Employee's Domestic Partner under a registered domestic partnership with a governmental body pursuant to state or local law authorizing such registry;
(ii) has provided the Employer with an "Affidavit of Domestic Partnership"; or
(iii) meets the following requirements:
 
(A) is 18 years of age or older, and the Employee is also 18 years of age or older;
(B) shares a committed, exclusive relationship with the Employee;
(C) shares a permanent residence with the Employee and has lived with the Employee for at least one (1) year;
(D) is unmarried, and the Employee is unmarried;
(E) is not related to the Employee in a way that would prevent marriage under applicable law; and
(F) is financially interdependent with the Employee and is able to demonstrate, upon request by the Employer at any time, such interdependence by providing documentation of at least two of the following arrangements:
(1) common ownership of real property or a common leasehold interest in such property;
(2) common ownership of a motor vehicle;
(3) a joint bank account or a joint credit account;
(4) designation as a beneficiary for life insurance or retirement benefits or under the will of the Employee;
(5) assignment of a durable power of attorney or health care power of attorney; or
(6) other proof that the Employer considers sufficient to establish financial interdependency under the circumstances of the case.
For purposes of the Plan, "Domestic Partner" also means a person to whom an Employee is married within the meaning of the laws of the jurisdiction of the Employee's domicile, including a common-law spouse if the Employee is domiciled in a jurisdiction that recognizes common-law marriage, regardless of whether such person is recognized as the Employee's spouse under the laws of the United States, including, but not limited to, the Code and applicable regulations.
(l) "" means each Employee (i) scheduled to work at least 20 hours a week in the conduct of the business of the Employer, and (ii) on the Employer's U.S. payroll, including any such Employee working within or outside the United States. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the term "Employee" shall not include any of the following individuals:
Eligible Employee
 
(i) Any person classified by the Employer as a casual employee, intern, on-call employee, seasonal employee, temporary employee, zero-hour employee or contingent employee;
(ii) Any person whose terms and conditions of employment are governed by a collective bargaining agreement, unless such collective bargaining agreement provides for participation by employees in the bargaining unit in the Plan or a program described in the appendices to the Plan;
(iii) Any person who is subject to a written agreement that provides that such individual shall not be eligible to participate in the Plan;
(iv) Any person seconded from a jurisdiction outside the United States; and
(v) Any member of a group, division or other classification designated by the Employer as ineligible to participate in the Plan.
An individual's status as an Eligible Employee shall be determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion. All such determinations shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
(m) "" means, with respect to an Eligible Employee, an involuntary Separation of Service of the Eligible Employee with the Employer as a result of any of the following, as determined in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator:
Eligible Termination
(i) a reorganization of the operations of the Employer;
(ii) a reduction in the work force of the Employer;
(iii) a change in the business of the Employer that affects the employee staffing requirements of the Employer; or
(iv) any other circumstances as determined by the Plan Administrator.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the death, disability, retirement, voluntary resignation or Termination for Cause of an Employee shall not be an Eligible Termination, whether such event occurs before, after or in the absence of, a reorganization of operations, reduction in work force, change in business or other circumstances otherwise treated as an Eligible Termination in the preceding sentence. Also, the transfer of an Employee ("") to a Related Company shall not be an Eligible Termination; provided, however, if the Transferred Employee has a Separation from Service with a Related Company ("") following such transfer, the Subsequent Termination shall be considered an Eligible Termination, if such Subsequent Termination would have been an Eligible Termination had the Transferred Employee been an Eligible Employee on the date of the Subsequent Termination.In addition, a Separation from Service in connection with the sale or other disposition of a plant, facility, division, operating assets or a subsidiary or any similar transaction shall not be an Eligible Termination if the Plan Administrator determines that employment is offered or continued by the purchaser, as provided in Section 4(b).
Transferred Employee
Subsequent Termination
 
The Plan Administrator shall, in its sole discretion, determine whether an Eligible Termination has occurred. All such determinations shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
(n) "" means an individual classified by an Employer as an "employee" on the payroll records of the Employer (including any such person who would be on the payroll records except for an authorized leave of absence).
Employee
The term "Employee" shall not include any individual whose compensation from an Employer is reported on Form 1099 or who performs services for the Employer as a consultant or independent contractor or pursuant to an agreement between the Employer and a third-party leasing or professional employment organization, staffing firm or other similar third-party organization or any person performing services for the Employer solely as a director. An individual not classified as an "employee" on the payroll records of an Employer for a particular period shall not be considered to be an Employee for the period, even if a court or administrative agency determines that such individual is or was an employee of the Employer during such period for purposes of payroll taxes, labor or employment law or any other non-Plan purpose. Such individual shall remain ineligible to participate in the Plan unless the Plan is amended specifically to provide that the individual is an Employee who is eligible for Plan participation.
An individual's status as an Employee shall be determined by the Employer in its sole discretion. All such determinations shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
(o) "" means the CareFusion Corporation Employee Bonus Plan, as may be amended or restated from time to time.
Employee Bonus Plan
(p) "" means the Company and any Related Company that, with the approval of the Company, elects to adopt the Plan for the benefit of some or all of its Eligible Employees. The Company may terminate a Related Company's participation in the Plan at any time for any reason without advance notice.
Employer
(q) "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
(r) "" means the Management Incentive Plan, the Employee Bonus Plan, the CareFusion Corporation 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the CareFusion Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, the CareFusion Corporation 401(k) Plan, the CareFusion Corporation Acquired Pensions Plan, the CareFusion Corporation Health and Group Benefits Plan and all written individual employment contracts and written individual agreements between an Employee and the Employer that provide for payment of benefits in connection with a termination of employment.
Excluded Plans
(s) "" has the meaning given to such term under the Management Incentive Plan.
Final Bonus
(t) "" means the CareFusion Corporation Management Incentive Plan, as may be amended or restated from time to time.
Management Incentive Plan
 
(u) "" means an Eligible Employee who meets the requirements set forth in Section 3(a).
Participant
(v) "" means the CareFusion Corporation Severance Plan, as set forth herein and as may be amended or restated from time to time.
Plan
(w) "" means the Employer or such other person or entity appointed by the Employer to manage or direct the administration and operation of the Plan.
Plan Administrator
(x) "" means (a) any U.S. corporation that is a member of a controlled group of corporations which includes the Company (pursuant to section 414(b) of the Code), or (b) any unincorporated entity in the United States that is considered to be in a common control group which includes the Company (pursuant to section 414(c) of the Code). Any such entity shall be treated as a Related Company only for the period while it is a member of the controlled group or considered to be in a common control group. The Plan Administrator also may designate any other subsidiary or affiliate of the Company as a "Related Company" for purposes of the Plan.
Related Company
(y) "" means a general release of rights in favor of the Company, any Related Company, and any individuals currently or formerly employed by the Company or any Related Company, in a form approved by the Plan Administrator or his or her designate.
Release
(z) "" has the meaning given to such term in Section 5(a).
Release Expiration Date
(aa) "" means the Employee's separation from service with the Employer owing to the Employee's death, retirement or other termination of employment. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, whether an Employee has incurred a Separation from Service shall be determined in accordance with section 1.409A-1(h) of the regulations of the Department of Treasury.
Separation from Service
(bb) "" means the benefits described in Section 4, including, if applicable, cash benefits, reimbursement of eligible expenses and benefits paid in kind.
Severance Benefits
(cc) "" means a person to whom an Employee is married within the laws of the jurisdiction of the Employee's domicile, including a common-law spouse if the Employee is domiciled in a jurisdiction that recognizes common-law marriage, provided that such person is recognized as the Employee's spouse under the laws of the United States, including, but not limited to, the Code and applicable regulations. A couple is "married" if their relationship is recognized as a marriage under the laws both of the state in which the Employee is domiciled and of the United States.
Spouse
(dd) "" means, unless otherwise determined by the Plan Administrator, termination of employment from the Employer on account of any act of fraud or intentional misrepresentation or embezzlement, misappropriation or conversion of assets of the Company or any Related Company, or the intentional and/or repeated violation of the written policies or procedures of the Employer, provided that for an Employee who is party to an individual severance or employment agreement defining Cause, except as may be provided in
Termination for Cause
 
such agreement, "Cause" shall have the meaning set forth in such agreement. For purposes of this Plan, an Employee's termination of employment shall be deemed to be a Termination for Cause if, after the Employee's employment has terminated, facts and circumstances are discovered that would have justified, in the opinion of the Plan Administrator, a Termination for Cause.
(ee) "" means (i) for a salaried Employee, the Employee's annual Base Compensation as of the date of Separation from Service, divided by fifty-two (52) or (ii) for an hourly Employee, the Employee's hourly Base Compensation as of the date of Separation from Service, multiplied by the mean number of hours that the Employee is scheduled to work in the fifty-two (52) weeks (or, if less, the number of full weeks since the later of the Employee's Date of Hire or Date of Rehire, if any) preceding the Employee's Separation from Service. In each case, "Week of Pay" shall be determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion.
Week of Pay
(ff) "" means the number of days during which an Employee accrues Continuous Service divided by 365. The Employee's Continuous Service will be rounded to the nearest whole number of Years of Continuous Service. Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, "Continuous Service" with respect to qualified military service will be provided in accordance with section 414(u) of the Code.
Years of Continuous Service
Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, nothing herein shall be construed to result in the duplication of Severance Benefits provided under the Plan.
 
(a) . The Company, in its discretion, may determine whether or not to offer Severance Benefits as the result of any Eligible Termination.
Participation
If the Company has made a decision to offer Severance Benefits, an Eligible Employee must, in order to be eligible to receive Severance Benefits, (i) incur an Eligible Termination; (ii) receive notice from the Plan Administrator of eligibility for Severance Benefits; (iii) remain an Eligible Employee through the Eligible Employee's date of termination, as determined by the Employer; and (iv) timely execute a Release, as provided under Section 3(b), to the extent required in such section.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise expressly permitted by the Plan Administrator, an Eligible Employee shall not receive Severance Benefits if: (i) he or she is eligible to receive severance benefits under any other group severance, salary continuation or separation pay plan, program or guideline sponsored by any Employer, other than the Excluded Plans; (ii) his or her Severance Benefit is fully offset by the Eligible Employee's indebtedness, as provided in Section 4(d); (iii) he or she violates the terms of the Release, to the extent that the Severance Benefit is conditioned on the execution of the Release; or (iv) his or her employment is Terminated for Cause.
(b) . In order for an Eligible Employee to be eligible to receive the Severance Benefits described in Section 4(a)(i)(A), 4(a)(i)(B) and 4(a)(ii), the Eligible Employee must submit a valid signed Release. Such Release must be presented to the
Requirement of Release
 
Eligible Employee by the Company no later than seven (7) days following the Eligible Termination. No such Severance Benefits shall be paid or provided to an Eligible Employee unless he or she submits the signed Release to the Company within the time period specified in the Release, which shall not be more than 45 days following the later of the date of Eligible Termination or the date it is presented to him or her. Eligible Employees are advised to contact their own attorney at their own expense to review the Release, if they so desire.
An Eligible Employee may revoke the Release within seven (7) days following the date that it is submitted to the Company. However, an Eligible Employee who timely revokes the Release shall not be eligible to receive any Severance Benefits available under the Plan, to the extent that the Severance Benefit is conditioned on the execution of the Release.
 
(a) . The severance benefits to which a Participant is entitled are summarized in the Schedules attached hereto, as may be amended from time to time (collectively, the ""). Except as provided in Section 4(c), (d) or (e) below, if a Participant has an Eligible Termination, he or she shall receive the following benefits:
Severance Benefits
Schedules
(i) A cash benefit equal to the sum of:
(A) A fixed benefit equal to such number of Weeks of Pay, based on the Participant's severance tier, as is provided on the applicable Schedule; and
(B) A variable benefit equal to such number of Weeks of Pay for each Year of Continuous Service of the Participant, based on the Participant's severance tier, as is provided on the applicable ;
Schedule
(C) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the sum of the cash benefits provided in (A) and (B), above, shall be no less than the minimum benefit, based on the Participant's severance tier, as is provided on the applicable , and shall not exceed the maximum benefit, based on the Participant's severance tier, as is provided on the applicable ;
Schedule
Schedule
(ii) If the Eligible Termination is deemed to be a "qualifying event" (as defined in section 603 of ERISA and section 4980B(f)(3) of the Code) and the Participant timely elects to receive, group health continuation coverage under COBRA, as provided by the CareFusion Corporation Health and Group Benefits Plan, then the Employer shall pay a subsidy toward the premium cost of COBRA continuation coverage for the Participant and any "qualified beneficiary" (as defined in section 607(3) of ERISA and section 4980B(g)(1) of the Code)) equal to the amount of the subsidy paid by the Employer for group medical and dental coverage for the Participant and his or her dependents immediately before the Participant's Separation from Service, without taking into account any wellness incentives or discounts on Participant premiums for participating in a wellness program. Such subsidy shall continue (i) for such number of months from the date on which COBRA continuation coverage commences, based on the Participant's severance tier, as is provided on the applicable , or, if earlier (ii) until the Participant loses eligibility for COBRA continuation coverage.
Schedule
 
The Company or its agent shall provide the Participant and any qualified beneficiaries with a COBRA election form and notice describing their rights to continuation coverage under COBRA. To receive a subsidy under this Section 4(a)(ii), the Participant and any qualified beneficiary who would like to receive COBRA continuation coverage must complete a COBRA application and return it to the address indicated in the election form before the deadline indicated in the COBRA notice. In the event of any increase in premiums during the COBRA continuation coverage period, the amount of the subsidy shall be increased in accordance with the Company's coverage of active Employees who have made similar benefit elections.Each of the Participant and his or her qualified beneficiaries shall be obligated to inform the Employer if such individual becomes covered by another employer's group health plan that does not limit or exclude coverage because of an applicable pre-existing condition or becomes entitled to Medicare. After the period of Company-subsidized COBRA continuation coverage expires, the Participant and his or her qualified beneficiaries may continue COBRA continuation coverage at their own cost.
No provision of this Section 4(a)(ii) shall affect the continuation coverage rules under COBRA and the CareFusion Corporation Health and Group Benefits Plan. Any period of subsidized COBRA coverage shall not extend, but instead shall be considered part of, the continuation coverage period to which the Participant is entitled under COBRA and the terms of the CareFusion Corporation Health and Group Benefits Plan; and
(iii) Provision of individual or group outplacement services, in the discretion of the Plan Administrator, for such number of months from the date of Separation from Service, based on the Participant's severance tier, as is provided on the applicable .
Schedule
(b) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Severance Benefits shall be payable under the Plan with respect to any Eligible Employee whose employment terminates in connection with the sale or other disposition of a plant, facility, division, operating assets or a subsidiary or any similar transaction, if the Plan Administrator determines, in its sole and absolute discretion, that employment is offered or continued by the purchaser, nor shall Severance Benefits be payable to an Eligible Employee whose employment is terminated by the purchaser after such transaction, unless the purchaser has expressly assumed the Plan. For the avoidance of doubt, no Severance Benefits shall be payable under the Plan with respect to any Eligible Employee whose employment terminates as a result of or in connection with a spin-off, split-off, division or separation of the Employer from the controlled group of corporations (as defined under section 414(b) of the Code) that includes the Company, if the Plan Administrator determines, in its sole and absolute discretion, that employment is offered or continued by another entity that was an Employer or member of the controlled group of corporations (as defined under section 414(b) of the Code) that includes the Company immediately prior to the effective date of such spin-off, split-off, division or separation.
No Severance Benefits for Sales or Dispositions
(c) . Severance Benefits under this Plan shall be reduced, if necessary, to the largest aggregate amount that will result in no portion thereof being subject to federal excise tax for the Participant under section 4999 of the Code or being nondeductible to the Employer under section 280G of the Code. Such a determination will be made by an independent accounting firm or compensation consulting firm
Reduction Of Benefits Under Certain Circumstances
 
that is mutually acceptable to the Employer and the Participant. Any determination by such firm shall be binding upon the Employer and the Participant. Any reductions shall be made in a manner consistent with the requirements of section 409A of the Code, to the extent applicable.
(d) . To the extent permitted by section 409A of the Code and other applicable law, Severance Benefits payable to a Participant may, in the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be offset by any indebtedness (written or unwritten, including the cost of Employer property held by such individual) that such terminated Participant has incurred with respect to the Company or a Related Company.
Offset Of Indebtedness
(e) . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Employer may withhold from any amounts payable under the Plan such federal, state, local or foreign taxes as the Employer determines is required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
Withholding Of Taxes
 
(a) . Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the amounts described in Section 4(a)(i)(A) and 4(a)(i)(B) shall be paid in installments to the Participant, in accordance with the Employer's normal payroll practices. The benefits described in Section 4(a)(ii) shall be provided to the Participant, in each case commencing on the first payroll date immediately following the date on which the Participant has executed the Release and the revocation period specified in the Release has expired without the Participant revoking the Release (the ""). The benefits described in Section 4(a)(iii) shall be provided to the Participant commencing as soon as practicable following the Participant's Separation from Service.
Time and Form of Payment
Release Expiration Date
(b) . Upon the death of a Participant following his or her Eligible Termination, any unpaid amounts described in Section 4(a)(i) shall be distributed in a single sum on the thirtieth (30
Death Of Participant
th
) day following the Participant's death to (i) the Participant's then surviving Spouse or Domestic Partner; or (ii) if the Participant has no surviving Spouse or Domestic Partner, the Participant's then surviving children (including adopted children, but not including birth children adopted by others) in equal shares; or (iii) if the Participant has no surviving Spouse, Domestic Partner or children, the Participant's estate. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term "children" shall not include stepchildren, children-in-law or foster children. The Plan Administrator shall determine a Participant's surviving Spouse, Domestic Partner and children as of the date of the Participant's death, and may require proof of a person's relationship to the Participant before treating such person as a beneficiary. The entitlement of any "qualified beneficiary" (as defined in section 607(3) of ERISA and section 4980B(g)(1) of the Code) of a Participant to continuation health coverage following the death of the Participant shall be governed by COBRA and the terms of the CareFusion Corporation Health and Group Benefits Plan. However, the entitlement of a qualified beneficiary to a subsidy toward the premium cost for such continuation coverage as described in Section 4(a)(ii) shall end on the earlier of (i) the date on which the qualified beneficiary's continuation coverage ends or (ii) the date on which the Participant's subsidy would otherwise end under the terms of this Plan, including the attached hereto, had the Participant survived through the end of such period.
Schedules
 
(c) . If a Participant is reemployed by the Company or a Related Company following an Eligible Termination, then any Severance Benefits payable on account of such Eligible Termination shall immediately cease, and the Participant shall not be eligible to receive any further Severance Benefits on account of such Eligible Termination.
Reemployment of Participant
 
(a) .The Company reserves the right at any time and for any reason to amend or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time without prior notice to Eligible Employees; provided, however, that any such amendment or termination shall not cause benefits paid under the Plan to violate any applicable provision of ERISA or the Code. The Company may delegate all or any portion of its authority to amend or terminate the Plan to the CareFusion Total Rewards Committee or any other person or entity, subject to such restrictions as the Company may specify. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any amendment to the Plan that affects the compensation of any director, officer or principal stockholder of the Company that is subject to disclosure requirements under section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, must be approved by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board.
Right to Amend and Terminate
(b) . All modifications of, or amendments to, the Plan shall be in writing.
Requirement of Writing
 
(a) . The Plan Administrator of the Plan shall be the Company. The Company shall also be the "administrator" of the Plan within the meaning of section 3(16)(A) of ERISA.
Plan Administrator
(b) . The Company, in its sole discretion, may delegate some or all of its authority and responsibility to administer the Plan to the CareFusion Total Rewards Committee, the Benefits Administrative Committee or such other person or entity as it may, from time to time, deem appropriate.
Delegation of Plan Administrative Authority
(c) . The Plan Administrator shall have the exclusive right, power and authority and sole and absolute discretion to take all actions and make all decisions in connection with the administration and operation of this Plan, including, but not limited to the following:
Authority of Plan Administrator
(i) to determine eligibility for, and the amount of, Severance Benefits, if any, awarded under the Plan;
(ii) to interpret any and all of the terms and provisions of the Plan;
(iii) to establish claims and appeals procedures;
(iv) to consider and decide conclusively any questions (whether of fact of otherwise) arising in connection with the administration of the Plan or any claim for Severance Benefits arising under the Plan; and
 
(v) to delegate such of its responsibilities to one or more designees as the Plan Administrator shall deem appropriate.
Under certain circumstances, the Plan Administrator may, in its sole and absolute discretion, authorize Severance Benefits in an amount different from the guideline amounts set forth on the , as well as waive or modify, with respect to one or more classes of employees, the eligibility requirements for Severance Benefits or modify the method of calculating Severance Benefits. No such action, waiver, modification or failure of the Company, any Related Company or the Plan Administrator to enforce at any time any provision of the Plan shall be construed in any way to amend, waive or modify any other provision of the Plan or affect the validity of the Plan or any part hereof or the right of the Company, any Related Company or the Plan Administrator thereafter to enforce each and every provision. No waiver of any provision of the Plan shall be effective unless made in writing by the Company.
Schedules
Any decision or action of the Plan Administrator pursuant to this Section 7(c) shall be conclusive and binding, and nothing in the Plan shall be deemed to give any Eligible Employee, or his or her legal representative or assigns, any right to participate in the Plan except to such extent, if any, as the Plan Administrator may have given notice to the Eligible Employee pursuant to the provisions of this Plan.
(d) . To the extent permitted by law, the Employer shall indemnify the Plan Administrator, any individual who is a director, officer or Employee of the Company, and his or her heirs and legal representatives, against all liability and reasonable expenses, including counsel fees, amounts paid in settlement and amounts of judgments, fines, or penalties, incurred or imposed upon him or her in connection with any claim, action, suits, or proceedings, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, arising from any act or failure to act in connection with his or her duties with respect to this Plan, provided that such act or failure to act does not constitute gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Indemnification
(e) . The Plan Administrator may adopt such rules and procedures, consistent with the Plan and ERISA, as it deems necessary or appropriate in the administration of the Plan. All rules and decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be applied uniformly and consistently. When making a determination or calculation, the Plan Administrator shall be entitled to rely upon information furnished by an Employer, the Eligible Employee or the legal counsel of the Employer.
Rules and Procedures
 
(a) . The Benefits Administrative Committee has full discretion and the exclusive right to determine eligibility for benefits under the Plan and to deny or grant a claim in whole or in part. All claim determinations shall be made by the Benefits Administrative Committee in a uniform and nondiscriminatory manner in accordance with the Plan provisions. The Benefits Administrative Committee's decision on a claim for benefits is final and binding on all persons.
Applicability of Claims Procedures
(b) . Any Eligible Employee or his or her Authorized Representative may file a claim for benefits to which the claimant believes he or she
Filing and Initial Determination of Claim
 
is entitled. Claims under this Plan must be made in writing and delivered to the Benefits Administrative Committee, in person or by mail, postage prepaid. Within 90 days after receipt of such claim, the Benefits Administrative Committee shall send to the claimant notice of the granting or denying, in whole or in part, of such claim unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim. In no event may the extension exceed 90 days from the end of the initial period. If such extension is necessary, the claimant will be given notice to this effect prior to the expiration of the initial 90-day period. This notice of extension shall indicate the special circumstances requiring the extension of time and the date by which the Benefits Administrative Committee expects to render its decision on the application for benefits.
(c) . The Benefits Administrative Committee will provide the claimant with written or electronic notification of its benefit determination. If the notice is provided electronically, such notice will comply with the standards imposed by the regulations of the Department of Labor. Any notice of Adverse Benefit Determination will set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant:
Notice of Benefit Determination
(i) The specific reason or reasons for the Adverse Benefit Determination;
(ii) Specific reference to pertinent Plan provisions on which the Adverse Benefit Determination is based;
(iii) A description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material is necessary; and
(iv) An explanation of the Plan's claim review procedure, the time limits applicable under the procedures and a statement regarding the claimant's right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA (if applicable) following an adverse benefit determination on appeal.
(d) . If the claimant receives an Adverse Benefit Determination, the claimant or such person's Authorized Representative may appeal the Adverse Benefit Determination by submitting to the Benefits Administrative Committee a request for a review of the application within 60 days after receiving written notice of the Adverse Benefit Determination from the Benefits Administrative Committee. The request for a review shall be in writing and shall be addressed to the Benefits Administrative Committee at the Company's principal office. The request for a review shall set forth all of the grounds on which it is based, all facts in support of the request and any other matters which the applicant deems pertinent. The Benefits Administrative Committee may require the applicant to submit such additional facts, documents or other material as it may deem necessary or appropriate in making its review. The claimant may submit written comments, documents, records and other information related to the benefit claim on appeal. The claimant must be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all Relevant Records.
Request for Review of Claim Denial
(e) . The Benefits Administrative Committee on appeal must undertake a full and fair review of the claim and consider all comments, documents, records and other information submitted by the claimant, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination. Upon the receipt of notice of a
Claims Review
 
request for review, the Benefits Administrative Committee shall make a prompt decision on the review. The decision on review shall be made not later than 60 days after the Benefits Administrative Committee's receipt of a request for a review, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing, in which case a decision shall be rendered not later than 120 days after receipt of the request for review. If an extension is necessary, the claimant shall be given notice of the extension prior to the expiration of the initial 60-day period. This notice of extension shall indicate the special circumstances requiring the extension of time and the date by which the Benefits Administrative Committee expects to render its decision on the application for benefits. If an extension of time is required due to the claimant's failure to submit information necessary to review the claim, the period of time that the Benefits Administrative Committee has to review the claim will be tolled from the date on which the notice of extension is sent to the claimant until the date on which the claimant responds to the request for additional information.
If the Benefits Administrative Committee holds regularly scheduled meetings at least quarterly, the benefit determination on appeal must be made no later than the date of the meeting that immediately follows receipt by the Benefits Administrative Committee of the appeal request. However, if the appeal is received within 30 days before the date of the meeting, the benefit determination must be made by the date of the second meeting that immediately follows receipt by the Benefits Administrative Committee of the appeal request. If an extension of the time period for processing the claim is needed, the benefit determination must be made by the date of the third meeting following receipt by the Benefits Administrative Committee of the appeal request. If such an extension for review is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant before the commencement of the extension. This notice of extension shall indicate the special circumstances requiring the extension of time and the date by which the Benefits Administrative Committee expects to render its decision on the application for benefits. The Benefits Administrative Committee must provide the notice of benefit determination on appeal to the claimant as soon as possible, but no later than five (5) days after the benefit determination is made.
(f) . Within the time periods prescribed above, the Benefits Administrative Committee will provide the claimant with written or electronic notification of the Benefits Administrative Committee's benefit determination on review. Any electronic notification shall comply with the regulations of the Department of Labor. In the case of an Adverse Benefit Determination, the notification will set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant:
Notice of Decision on Appeal
(i) the specific reason or reasons for the Adverse Benefit Determination,
(ii) specific references to the Plan provisions on which the Adverse Benefit Determination is based,
(iii) a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all Relevant Records, and
 
(iv) a description of the claimant's right to obtain information about such procedures and a statement regarding the claimant's right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA (if applicable) following an Adverse Benefit Determination on appeal.
(g) . The following defined terms apply for purposes of the claims procedure contained in this Section 8.
Claims Procedures Definitions
(i) "" means a denial, reduction or termination of a benefit by the Benefits Administrative Committee, or a failure of the Benefits Administrative Committee to provide or make payment (in whole or in part) for a benefit, including any denial, reduction, termination, or failure to provide or make payment that is based on a determination of the claimant's eligibility to participate in the Plan;
Adverse Benefit Determination
(ii) "" means an individual who is authorized to represent the claimant with respect to any claims or appeals filed pursuant to these procedures. Whether an individual is the claimant's Authorized Representative will be determined by the Benefits Administrative Committee in accordance with its procedures.
Authorized Representative
(iii) "" means any document, record, or other information that:
Relevant Records
(A) the Benefits Administrative Committee relied upon in making the benefit determination for the claimant's claim;
(B) was submitted, considered, or generated in the course of making the benefit determination for the claimant's claim, without regard to whether such document, record, or other information was relied upon in making the benefit determination; or
(C) demonstrates compliance with the administrative processes and safeguards required pursuant to regulations of the Department of Labor in making the benefit determination for the claimant's claim.
(h) . No legal or equitable action for benefits under the Plan shall be brought unless and until the claimant (i) has submitted a written claim for benefits in accordance with the procedures referred to in this Section 8, (ii) has been notified of an Adverse Benefit Determination, (iii) has filed a written request for review of such Adverse Benefit Determination in accordance with the procedures referred to in this Section 8, and (iv) has been notified in writing that the Adverse Benefit Determination has been affirmed on appeal; provided, however, that an action may not be brought if the claim or appeal has not been acted upon within the period prescribed by law.
Exhaustion of Remedies
 
Benefits payable under the Plan shall be paid out of the general assets of the Company. The Company is not required to fund the benefits payable under this Plan, and nothing contained in the Plan shall be deemed to create a trust of any kind. However, nothing in this Section 9 shall be interpreted as precluding the Company from funding or setting aside amounts in anticipation
 
of paying such benefits. Any assets which the Company chooses to use for advance funding shall not cause the Plan to be a funded plan within the meaning of ERISA. Benefits payable to an Eligible Employee under this Plan shall represent an unsecured claim by such Eligible Employee against the general assets of the Company.
 
(a) . Nothing in this Plan shall be held or construed:
Rights Are Not Created Other Than As Plan Specifies
(i) to give any person any legal or equitable right to or interest in the assets of the Employer or against the Plan Administrator, except as expressly provided in this Plan, and then only to the extent of the benefits payable under the Plan to such person;
(ii) to create a contract of employment with any Employee, or to give any Employee the right to continue as an Employee, nor to affect or modify his or her terms of employment in any way; or
(iii) to interfere with the Employer's right to terminate the service of any individual at any time, with or without Cause, without regard to the effect of such termination upon his rights or benefits under the Plan.
(b) . Nothing contained in this Plan, nor any decision as to the eligibility for Severance Benefits (or determination regarding the amount of any Severance Benefits), shall be construed to confer upon any Employee or any other individual any right to be retained in the employ of the Company or to be rehired, and the right and power of the Company to dismiss or discharge any Employee for any reason is specifically reserved. Except as expressly provided in the Plan, no Employee or any person claiming under or through him or her shall have any right or interest in this Plan or in any benefit.
No Employment Right
 
(a) . Benefits payable under the Plan shall not be subject to assignment, alienation, transfer, pledge, encumbrance, commutation or anticipation by any Employee. Any attempt to assign, alienate, transfer, pledge, encumber, commute or anticipate Plan benefits shall be void. In addition, no interest under the Plan shall be in any manner subject to levy, attachment or other legal process to enforce payment of any claim against an Eligible Employee, except to the extent required by law.
Non-Assignability of Severance Benefit
(b) . An individual shall be required to return to the Employer any Severance Benefits that the Employer paid or made available to that individual by mistake of fact or law. The Employer reserves the right to pursue such recovery of payments by any legal or equitable means available.
Recovery of Payments Made by Mistake
(c) . The Company intends that the Severance Benefits payable hereunder shall be eligible for the exemptions from section 409A of the Code for short-term deferrals under section 1.409A-1(b)(4) of the regulations of the Department of Treasury and for
409A Compliance
 
separation pay plans (including medical benefits and reasonable outplacement expenses provided under a separation pay plan) under section 1.409A-1(b)(9) of the regulations of the Department of Treasury. If and to the extent the Severance Benefits payable hereunder do not qualify for either such exemption and are subject to section 409A of the Code, such Severance Benefits shall be paid at a time and in a manner compliant with section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder. The Plan shall be administered and all ambiguities resolved in accordance with such intent.
In furtherance of the foregoing:
(i) The Severance Benefits shall be payable only upon a Separation from Service, and references to Eligible Termination and date of termination shall be interpreted to mean the date of Separation from Service;
(ii) Each payment of Severance Benefits shall be treated as a separate payment and not as a single payment for all purposes of section 409A;
(iii) The Employer will delay the commencement of Severance Benefits to which the Participant would otherwise become entitled under the Plan until the earlier of: (i) the first day of the month following the expiration of the six (6)-month period from the date of the Participant's Separation from Service or (ii) the date of the Participant's death, if the Plan Administrator in good faith determines that the Severance Benefits constitute nonqualified deferred compensation subject to section 409A of the Code and the Participant is a "specified employee" within the meaning of section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code at the time of such Separation from Service. Upon the expiration of the applicable deferral period under section 409A(a)(2) of the Code, all Severance Benefits deferred pursuant to the Plan (whether it would have otherwise been payable in a single sum or in installments in the absence of such deferral) shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum (and the Participant will be reimbursed for his or her cost of health care coverage and outplacement services, to the extent subject to deferral, during such deferral period), and any remaining Severance Benefits due under the Plan shall be paid in accordance with the payment schedule otherwise specified for them under the Plan. The Participant shall be entitled to interest on Severance Benefits payable in cash for the period the commencement of Severance Benefits is delayed by reason of section 409A(a)(2) of the Code, with such interest to accrue at the prime rate in effect at the time of the Participant's Separation from Service and to be paid in a lump sum upon the expiration of the deferral period;
(iv) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the payment of any expense or the provision of any benefit (including outplacement services) under the Plan that is intended to be exempt from section 409A of the Code pursuant to section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(v)(A) or (C) of the regulations of the Department of Treasury shall be paid or provided to the Participant no later than the last day of the second (2
nd
) calendar year following the calendar year in which the Separation from Service occurs, and such expenses shall be reimbursed no later than the last day of the third (3
rd
) calendar year following the calendar year in which the Separation from Service occurs;
(v) To the extent that any expense reimbursement or the provision of any in-kind benefit under the Plan is determined to be nonqualified deferred compensation subject to
 
section 409A of the Code, the amount of any such expenses or in-kind benefits in one calendar year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement or in-kind benefits to be provided in any other calendar year (except for any other aggregate limitation applicable to medical expenses); in no event shall any expense be reimbursed after the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant incurred such expense; and in no event shall any right to reimbursement or the provision of any in-kind benefit be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit; and
(vi) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in any case where the date of the Participant's Separation from Service and the latest date on which the Release Expiration Date could occur fall in different taxable years, any payments required to be made to the Participant that are conditioned on the Release and are treated as nonqualified deferred compensation for purposes of section 409A of the Code shall commence in the later taxable year. To the extent that any payments or benefits are delayed pending the Release Expiration Date, such amounts shall be paid in a lump sum (or services provided) on the first payroll date following the Release Expiration Date or, in the case of any payments delayed pursuant to this Section 11(c)(vi), on the first payroll date to occur in the subsequent taxable year.
(d) . This Plan supersedes any and all prior severance arrangements, policies, plans or practices of the Employer, whether written or unwritten, except as may otherwise be provided by the Plan Administrator in writing. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Plan does not affect the provisions of the Excluded Plans. Nothing contained in this Plan shall be construed to require the Company to continue to provide other employment-related benefits to a Participant following an Eligible Termination. However, if a Participant in the Plan is also entitled to a benefit under any of the Excluded Plans as a result of the Participant's Eligible Termination, then such benefit shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the applicable Excluded Plan.
Plan Supersedes Other Arrangements
(e) . An Eligible Employee must provide the Plan Administrator with his or her mailing address when requested to do so. A communication, statement or notice addressed to the Eligible Employee at his or her last mailing address, as filed with the Plan Administrator will be binding upon him or her for all purposes under the Plan, and none of the Employer, the Plan or the Plan Administrator shall be obligated to conduct any further search to determine how such Eligible Employee may be contacted.
Addresses and Notices
(f) . This Plan and the rights of all persons under the Plan shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code and, to the extent not preempted by ERISA, in accordance with the internal and substantive laws (and not the conflicts of laws provisions) of the State of California.
Governing Law
(g) . Each provision of this Plan is fully severable. If any provision of this Plan is held illegal or invalid for any reason, such illegality or invalidity will not affect the remaining provisions; instead, the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if any illegal or invalid provision had never been included.
Severability
(h) . Headings and titles are for convenience only, and the text shall control in all matters.
Headings
 
(i) . No right hereunder shall inure to any third party beneficiary.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
(j) . This Plan shall bind any successor of or to the Company, its assets or its businesses (whether direct or indirect), by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise, in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be obligated under this Plan if no succession had taken place. In the case of any transaction in which a successor would not by the foregoing provision or by operation of law be bound by this Plan, the Company shall require such successor expressly and unconditionally to assume and agree to perform the Company's obligations under this Plan, in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. The term "Company," as used in this Plan, shall mean the Company as defined in Section 2(g) and any successor or assignee to the business or assets which by reason hereof becomes bound by this Plan.
Successors
(k) .
Additional Information
 
(l) . As an Eligible Employee under the Plan, you have certain rights and protections under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"):
Statement of ERISA Rights
 
(i) You may examine (without charge) all Plan documents, including any amendments and copies of any documents filed with the U.S. Department of Labor. These documents are available for your review in the Company's Human Resources Department.
(ii) You may obtain copies of all Plan documents and other Plan information upon written request to the Plan Administrator. A reasonable charge may be made for such copies.
In addition to creating rights for Eligible Employees, ERISA imposes duties upon the people who are responsible for the operation of the Plan. The people who operate the Plan (called "fiduciaries") have a duty to do so prudently and in the interests of you and the other Eligible Employees. No one, including the Employer or any other person, may fire you or otherwise discriminate against you in any way to prevent you from obtaining a benefit under the Plan or exercising your rights under ERISA. If your claim for a severance benefit is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you have a right to know why this was done, to obtain copies of documents relating to the decision without charge, and to appeal any denial, all within certain time limits.
Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the above rights. For instance, if you request a copy of Plan materials and do not receive them within 30 days, you may file suit in a federal court. In such a case, the court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and to pay you up to $110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of reasons beyond the control of the Plan Administrator. If you have a claim which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you may file suit in a state or federal court. If it should happen that you are discriminated against for asserting your rights, you may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a federal court. In any case, the court will decide who will pay court costs and legal fees. If you are successful, the court may order the person you have sued to pay these costs and fees. If you lose, the court may order you to pay these costs and fees, for example, if it finds that your claim is frivolous.
If you have any questions regarding the Plan, please contact the Plan Administrator. If you have any questions about this statement or about your rights under ERISA, you may contact the nearest area office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, listed in your telephone directory, or the Division of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210. You may also obtain certain publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.
 
The Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this amendment and restatement of the Plan, as of this 28th day of June, 2012.
 
 
Schedule A:
Tier M5
Senior Vice President
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Plan Administrator may, in its sole and absolute discretion, authorize Severance Benefits in an amount different from the guideline amounts set forth on this , waive or modify, with respect to one or more classes of employees, the eligibility requirements for Severance Benefits or modify the method of calculating Severance Benefits. No such authorization, waiver or modification shall be effective unless made in writing.
Schedule A
 
 
Schedule B
Tier 1 (M4/P6)
Vice President
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Plan Administrator may, in its sole and absolute discretion, authorize Severance Benefits in an amount different from the guideline amounts set forth on this , waive or modify, with respect to one or more classes of employees, the eligibility requirements for Severance Benefits or modify the method of calculating Severance Benefits. No such authorization, waiver or modification shall be effective unless made in writing.
Schedule B
 
 
Schedule C
Tier 2 (M2M3; P4P5)
Manager, Director
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Plan Administrator may, in its sole and absolute discretion, authorize Severance Benefits in an amount different from the guideline amounts set forth on this , waive or modify, with respect to one or more classes of employees, the eligibility requirements for Severance Benefits or modify the method of calculating Severance Benefits. No such authorization, waiver or modification shall be effective unless made in writing.
Schedule C
 
 
Schedule D
Tier 3 (M1; P1P3)
B and O Track Employees
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Plan Administrator may, in its sole and absolute discretion, authorize Severance Benefits in an amount different from the guideline amounts set forth on this , waive or modify, with respect to one or more classes of employees, the eligibility requirements for Severance Benefits or modify the method of calculating Severance Benefits. No such authorization, waiver or modification shall be effective unless made in writing.
Schedule D
 
 

Exhibit 99.8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.9
 
 
The purpose of the Plan is to assure the Company and its Affiliates of the continued dedication, loyalty, and service of, and the availability of objective advice and counsel from, key executives of the Company in the event of a Change in Control. The Plan is intended to be a "top-hat" plan (i.e., an unfunded deferred compensation plan maintained for a select group of management or highly-compensated employees) under ERISA sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), and 401(a)(1).
 
As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
(a) "" means any entity, whether now or hereafter existing, which controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company (including, but not limited to, joint ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships), as determined by the Board.
Affiliate
(b) "" means a Participant's annual rate of base salary in effect as of the date of termination of employment, determined without regard to any reduction thereof that constitutes Good Reason under the Plan.
Base Salary
(c) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(d) "" means:
Cause
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this definition, no act or failure to act on the part of the Participant shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Participant's act or omission was in the best interests of the Company.
(e) "" means any of the following:
Change in Control
 
 
 
 
 
(f) "" means the date on which a Change in Control becomes effective.
Change in Control Date
(g) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and Treasury guidance promulgated under the Code.
Code
(h) "" means CareFusion Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or, except as utilized in the definition of Change in Control, its successor.
Company
(i) "" means a member of the Board.
Director
(j) "," unless the Board specifies otherwise, has the meaning specified in the Company's long-term disability plan applicable to the Participant at the time of Disability.
Disability
(k) "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations and guidance promulgated under it.
ERISA
(l) "" means
Good Reason
 
 
 
 
 
The Participant must provide notice to the Company of the existence of one of the "Good Reason" conditions within 90 days after the initial existence of the "Good Reason" condition, upon the notice of which the Company shall have 30 days to remedy the condition and not be required to pay any amount of severance. In all cases, for the Participant to receive any severance benefit, the Participant's termination must occur no later than two years following the initial existence of one or more of the "Good Reason" conditions arising without the consent of the Participant.
(m) "" means the Company's Management Incentive Plan dated as of July 1, 2010, as amended, or any successor plan thereto that provides for cash bonuses to employees of the Company.
Management Incentive Plan
(n) "" means an individual designated by the Board (or an authorized officer of the Company) as eligible to participate in the Plan pursuant to Section 4(a) who executes and returns to the Company a Participation Agreement in accordance with Section 4(b) of the Plan.
Participant
(o) "" means the agreement between the Participant and the Company pursuant to Section 4(b).
Participation Agreement
(p) "" means this Executive Change in Control Severance Plan.
Plan
(q) "" means the Target Bonus multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of whole and partial months (rounded up) from the date of termination of employment until the end of the fiscal year of the Company, and the denominator of which is 12.
Prorated Target Bonus
(r) "" means the period beginning on the date on which an eligible executive becomes a Participant under Section 4(b) and ending on the last day of the 24-month period after the date of termination of employment.
Restricted Period
(s) "" means the Company's Severance Plan dated as of July 1, 2012, as amended, or any successor plan thereto that provides for cash severance to employees of the Company in the event of termination of employment as a result of position elimination or Company restructuring activities.
Severance Plan
 
(t) " means the Participant's target cash bonus under the Company's Management Incentive Plan for the fiscal year of the Company in which the termination of employment occurs, determined without regard to any reduction thereof that constitutes Good Reason under the Plan.
"Target Bonus
(u) "" means the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
Tier I Executive
(v) "" means the Chief Financial Officer, any president, executive vice president and senior vice president of the Company, and certain vice presidents of the Company specifically designated as Tier II Executives in accordance with the Plan, as further described in Section 4(a).
Tier II Executive
 
(a) The Company shall act as the plan administrator and the "named fiduciary" of the Plan for purposes of ERISA. Prior to a Change in Control, the Board has sole and absolute discretion and authority to administer the Plan on behalf of the Company, including the discretionary power and authority to:
 
 
 
 
(b) If any person with administrative authority becomes eligible or makes a claim for Plan benefits, he or she will have no authority with respect to any matter specifically affecting his or her individual interest under the Plan and the Company will designate another person to exercise such authority.
(c) Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, after a Change in Control, neither the Board nor any other person shall have discretionary authority in the administration of
 
the Plan, and any court or tribunal that adjudicates any dispute, controversy, or claim in connection with benefits under Section 5 will apply a standard of review to any determinations made by the Board or the Company. Such de novo standard shall apply notwithstanding the grant of full discretion hereunder to the Board or any person or characterization of any decision by the Board or by such person as final, binding or conclusive on any party.
de novo
 
(a) . The Board, in its sole discretion, may from time to time designate key executives of the Company who are eligible to participate in the Plan. Without further action of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall be designated as a Tier I Executive. Without further action of the Board, the Chief Financial Officer and each president, each executive vice president and each senior vice president of the Company shall be designated as a Tier II Executive. In addition, a vice president may be designated as a Tier II Executive hereunder if the Board, in its sole discretion, specifically approves such designation.
Eligibility
(b) . Each eligible executive designated pursuant to Section 4(a) shall become a Participant in the Plan only upon execution of a Participation Agreement in the form, or substantially the form, attached hereto as , subject to additional terms as the Board may specify. Each executed Participation Agreement shall constitute the Participant's agreement to the terms and conditions of participation in the Plan.
Participation; Execution of Participation Agreement
Appendix A
 
(a) . In the event a Participant's employment with the Company is terminated within 24 months after the Change in Control Date either (i) by the Company for reasons other than Cause, death, or Disability, or (ii) by the Participant for Good Reason, the Company shall make payments and provide benefits to the Participant as specified under Sections 5(b) through 5(e), subject to the Participant's satisfaction of the requirements of Section 6(a) (regarding waiver and release of claims) and Section 6(b) (regarding restrictive covenants). To the extent the amount of payments and benefits due under Sections 5(b) through 5(e) is based on a Participant's status as a Tier I or Tier II Executive, that status shall be determined on the date immediately before the Change in Control Date. In addition, if a Participant's employment with the Company had terminated, or the Participant's status as a Tier I or Tier II Executive had been diminished, in either event before a Change in Control that is a "change in control event" under Treasury regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(5), and if it is reasonably demonstrated by the Participant to the Board that his or her termination of employment, or diminishment in status, either was at the request of a third party that had taken steps reasonably calculated to effect the Change in Control or otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of the Change in Control, then, for purposes of determining entitlement to severance benefits under the Plan, the Participant's employment is deemed to have terminated on the Change in Control Date, or the Participant's status is determined on the date immediately before such diminishment in connection with the Change in Control.
Entitlement to Severance Benefits
 
(b) . The Company shall pay to the Participant in cash the following applicable amount:
Cash Payment
 
 
 
 
(c) . The Company shall pay the premium for COBRA coverage, if elected by the Participant and his eligible dependents, upon loss of coverage under
Health Benefit Continuation
 
the Company's group health plan for active employees of the Company due to termination of employment, until the earlier of (i) the date that the Participant becomes eligible for coverage under another group health plan, or (ii) the end of the 18-month maximum COBRA coverage period. For Participants who do not become eligible for coverage under another group health plan by the end of the 18-month maximum COBRA coverage period, the Company shall continue to provide coverage under its group health plan for active employees until the earlier of (x) the date that the Participant becomes eligible for coverage under another group health plan, or (y) for Tier I Executives, the end of an additional 18-month period or, for Tier II Executives, the end of an additional six-month period. The Company includes as gross taxable income to the Participant the amount of the COBRA premium during the period of COBRA coverage and the fair market value of the continued coverage beyond the end of the COBRA period, if applicable.
(d) . The Company shall pay the cost of providing outplacement services (i) for six months for each Tier II Executive that is a vice president and (ii) for twelve months for all other Tier II and Tier I Participants, so long as (x) the Participant commences utilization of the services within six months following the date of termination of employment; and (y) the services are provided by a recognized outplacement provider. Payment shall be made by the Company directly to the service provider promptly following the provision of the outplacement services and the presentation to the Company of documentation of the provision of the services, and in all events by no later than the first anniversary of the date of termination of employment.
Outplacement Assistance
(e) . A Participant shall bear all expense of, and be solely responsible for, all federal, state, local or foreign taxes due with respect to any payment received under the Plan, including, without limitation, any excise tax imposed by Code section 4999. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, in the event that any payment or benefit received or to be received by a Participant pursuant to the terms of the Plan (the "") or in connection with the Participant's termination of employment or contingent upon a Change in Control pursuant to any plan or arrangement or other agreement with the Company (or any Affiliate) (together with the Plan Payments, the "") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Code section 4999, as determined by the Company, then the Payments shall be reduced to the extent necessary to prevent any portion of the Payments from becoming nondeductible by the Company under Code section 280G or subject to the excise tax imposed under Code section 4999, but only if, by reason of that reduction, the net after-tax benefit received by the Participant exceeds the net after-tax benefit the Participant would receive if no reduction was made. For this purpose, "" means (i) the total of all Payments that would constitute "excess parachute payments" within the meaning of Code section 280G, less (ii) the amount of all federal, state, and local income taxes payable with respect to the Payments calculated at the maximum marginal income tax rate for each year in which the Payments shall be paid to the Participant (based on the rate in effect for that year as set forth in the Code as in effect at the time of the first payment of the Payments), less (iii) the amount of excise taxes imposed on the Payments described in clause (i) above by Code section 4999. If a reduction in Payments is necessary under this Section 5(e), the reduction shall be made in a manner that provides the Participant with the greatest economic benefit.
Code Section 280G Cutback
Plan Payments
Payments
net after-tax benefit
 
(a) . As a condition to receiving severance benefits under Section 5 of the Plan, each Participant shall be required to sign and deliver to the Company, and may not revoke or violate the terms of, a general release of all claims, substantially in the form attached as , as revised from time to time prior to a Change in Control to comply with applicable law or to reflect changes made to the Company's standard form of general release of all claims for all employees. In no case will payments be made or begin before the end of any rescission period required by applicable law or regulation in connection with any release or waiver that the Participant is asked to sign.
Waiver and Release of Claims
Appendix B
(b) . By executing the Participation Agreement, the Participant agrees to abide by the following restrictive covenants during the Restricted Period as consideration for the severance benefits provided under Section 5, and acknowledges that the provisions and covenants contained in this Section 6(b) are ancillary and material to the terms of the Plan and that the limitations contained herein are reasonable in geographic and temporal scope and do not impose a greater restriction or restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill and other legitimate business interests of the Company. The Participant also acknowledges and agrees that the provisions of this Section 6(b) do not adversely affect the Participant's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate the covenants contained herein. The Participant also acknowledges that before Participant shall be determined to have breached any provision or covenant contained in this Section 6(b), the Participant shall have been given notice of any such alleged breach and been given 45 days after receipt of such notice of such breach to cure or remedy any such breach that is reasonably susceptible of cure or remedy.
Restrictive Covenants
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) The Participant and the Company shall at all times refrain from taking actions or making statements, written or oral, that denigrate, disparage or defame the goodwill or reputation of the Participant or the CareFusion Group, as the case may be, or any of its trustees, officers, security holders, partners, agents or former or current employees and directors. The Participant further agrees not to make any negative statement to third parties relating to the Participant's employment or any aspect of the
 
businesses of CareFusion Group and not to make any statements to third parties about the circumstances of the termination of the Participant's employment, or about the CareFusion Group or its trustees, directors, officer, security holders, partners, agents or former or current employees and directors, except as may be required by a court or government body.
(2) The Participant further agrees that, following termination of employment for any reason, the Participant shall assist and cooperate with the Company with regard to any matter or project in which the Participant was involved during the Participant's employment with the Company, including but not limited to any litigation that may be pending or arise after such termination of employment. Further, the Participant agrees to notify the Company at the earliest reasonable opportunity of any contact that is made by any third parties concerning any such matter or project. The Company shall not unreasonably request such cooperation of the Participant and shall cooperate with the Participant in scheduling any assistance by the Participant taking into account the Participant's business and personal affairs and shall compensate the Participant for any lost wages or expenses associated with such cooperation and assistance.
 
 
 
 
 
(c) . Each Participant is and shall continue to be employed by the Company on an "at will" basis. A Participant shall have no further rights under the Plan if he or she terminates employment with the Company for any reason prior to a Change in Control Date (other than as set forth in Section 5(a)), or if he or she terminates voluntarily without Good Reason or is terminated with Cause following a Change in Control.
At-Will Employment
(d) . Payments to a Participant under the Plan shall be in lieu of any severance or similar payments that otherwise might be payable under any plan, program, policy or agreement sponsored by the Company that provides severance benefits to employees upon termination of employment, except that the payment or acceleration of equity or equity-based awards shall be in addition to, rather than in lieu of, any payment or benefits due under the Plan. Except as may otherwise be specifically stated under any employee benefit plan, policy, or program, no amount payable under the Plan shall be treated as compensation for purposes of calculating a Participant's right under any such plan, policy, or program.
Nonduplication; No Impact on Benefits
 
A Participant who has not been awarded benefits under the terms of the Plan may file a written claim for benefits with the Company.
(a) Such claim shall be decided within 90 days by the Board unless special circumstances require an extension of up to 90 additional days. If the Board determines that an extension is necessary, it shall provide the claimant with written notice of the need for an extension prior to the termination of the initial 90-day period, indicating the special circumstances requiring an extension and the date by which the Board expects to render its decision. Written notice of the Board's decision on the claim shall be furnished promptly to the claimant. If the claim is denied in whole or in part, such written notice shall (i) set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the specific reason or reasons for the adverse determination; (ii) reference the specific plan provisions on which the determination is based; (iii) describe any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and explain why such material or information is necessary; and (iv) describe the plan's review procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including a claimant's right to bring a civil action under ERISA section 502(a) following an adverse benefit determination on review;
(b) Within 60 days following receipt of an adverse benefit determination, a claimant may file a request for review of the initial claim in writing with the Board. A claimant shall be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records or other information in the Board's possession relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits. The claimant may also submit comments, documents, records and other information relating to the claim, which shall be taken into account by the Board in reviewing its denial of the Participant's claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination.
(c) Notice of the Board's decision on review shall be furnished to the claimant within 60 days following the receipt of the request for review, unless special circumstances require an extension of up to 60 additional days, in which case written notice of the extension shall be
 
furnished to the claimant prior to the end of the initial 60-day period, indicating the special circumstances requiring an extension and the date by which the Board expects to render its decision on review. If the Board makes an adverse benefit determination upon review, the adverse benefit determination will set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, (i) the specific reason or reasons for the adverse determination; (ii) reference to the specific plan provisions on which the determination was based; (iii) a statement of the claimant's entitlement to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits; and (iv) a description of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under ERISA section 502(a).
 
(a) . The Board may terminate or amend the Plan in any respect and at any time; provided, however, that (i) no termination or amendment of the Plan shall be effective with respect to a Change in Control that occurs less than six months following the date of such termination or amendment and (ii) the Plan may not be terminated or amended after the Change in Control Date in any manner that would adversely affect the rights of a Participant without his or her prior written consent. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Plan may be amended by the Board at any time, including retroactively if required, in order to conform the Plan to the provisions of Code section 409A and the Treasury regulations or other authoritative guidance issued thereunder and to conform the Plan to the requirements of any other applicable law.
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
(b) . Benefits payable under the Plan, whether paid in a lump sum or in periodic payments, will not increase or decrease the benefits otherwise available to a Participant under any Company-sponsored retirement plan, welfare plan or any other employee benefit plan or program, unless otherwise expressly provided for in any particular plan or program.
Integration with Other Benefit Programs
(c) . Benefits payable under the Plan will be paid only from the general assets of the Company or a successor. The Plan does not create any right to or interest in any specific assets of the Company.
Funding
(d) . The Participant shall not be obligated to seek other employment in mitigation of the amounts payable under any provision of the Plan, and the obtaining of such other employment shall not effect any reduction of the Company's obligations to pay the lump-sum cash payment provided under Section 5(b).
No Mitigation
(e) . The Company may withhold from any payments made under the Plan all federal, state, local or other taxes required pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or ruling.
Withholding
(f) . All rights under the Plan are personal to the Participant and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. The Plan shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Participant's legal representative. The Plan shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns. The Company will require any
Successors
 
successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to assume expressly and agree to perform the obligations set forth in the Plan in the same manner and to the same extent as the Company would be required to do so.
(g) . The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto shall be governed by the substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of the State of Delaware, or by U.S. federal law.
Governing Law
(h) . In the event that any provision of the Plan is declared to be illegal, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be reformed, if possible, to the extent necessary to render it legal, valid and enforceable, or otherwise deleted, and the remainder of the terms of the Plan shall not be affected except to the extent necessary to reform or delete such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision.
Severability
(i) . The Company and the Participant agree to attempt to resolve any dispute between them quickly and fairly. Any dispute related to the Plan which remains unresolved shall be resolved exclusively by final and binding arbitration conducted within 50 miles of San Diego, California, pursuant to the then-current rules of the American Arbitration Association with respect to employment disputes. The Company shall bear any and all costs of the arbitration process plus, if a Participant substantially prevails on all issues raised, any reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the Participant with regard to such arbitration.
Arbitration
(j) . Notices and all other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered or when mailed by United States certified mail, return receipt requested, or by overnight courier, postage prepaid, to the Company at its corporate headquarters address, to the attention of the Secretary of the Company, or to the Participant at the home address most recently communicated by the Participant to the Company in writing.
Notices
(k) .
409A Compliance
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
 
[Date]
[Name]
[Title]
[Street Address]
[City, State, Zip Code]
 
Dear [Name]:
CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") maintains the Executive Change in Control Severance Plan (the "Plan"), a copy of which is attached. The purpose of the Plan is to assure the Company of the continued dedication, loyalty, and service of, and the availability of objective advice and counsel from, key executives of the Company in the event of a Change in Control. I am pleased to inform you that, based on your current role with the Company, the Board of Directors (the "Board") has designated you as an eligible participant in the Plan.
Based on your current role as the Company's , and pursuant to Section 4(a) of the Plan, the Board has determined that you are eligible to participate in the Plan as a Tier Executive. Subject to and as further described in the Plan, in the event your employment is terminated within 24 months after the Change in Control Date either (i) by the Company for reasons other than Cause, death, or Disability, or (ii) by you for Good Reason (as such capitalized terms are defined in the Plan), you will be entitled to a cash severance payment under Section 5(b) of the Plan in an amount equal to . In addition, you will be entitled to certain severance benefits, including health insurance coverage and outplacement assistance as set forth in the Plan. You will become a participant in the Plan and be eligible to receive the severance payment and severance benefits described herein, subject to the terms of the Plan, only upon executing and returning to the Company this letter agreement, which serves as the Participation Agreement required under Section 4(b) of the Plan.
[insert current title]
[    ]
[
insert amount or formula
]
Please note that your participation in the Plan and your eligibility to receive the severance payment and severance benefits described herein are subject to and conditioned upon your continued service to the Company in the role of . In the event your role with the Company changes prior to the Change in Control Date (other than as contemplated by Section 5(a) of the Plan), this Participation Agreement will automatically terminate without further action by
[insert current title]
either party hereto. Thereafter, any future participation by you in the Plan will be subject to review and approval by the Board and subject to any terms and conditions then in effect, including execution by you of a new Participation Agreement, if applicable.
This Participation Agreement sets forth certain information regarding the severance payment and severance benefits to be provided to you in accordance with Section 5 of the Plan. As used in this Participation Agreement, each capitalized term, if not defined herein, has the meaning ascribed to it under the Plan. You hereby acknowledge and agree that the foregoing payment and benefits will only be provided to you if you sign and do not revoke or violate the terms of a waiver and release of claims, pursuant to Section 6(a) of the Plan, and that the terms of this letter agreement that entitle you to any severance payment and severance benefits are subject to all of the terms of the Plan.
Please review the entire Plan carefully, including, but not limited to, the "Terms and Conditions of Participation" set forth in Section 6 of the Plan, which includes restrictive covenants. In order to become a Participant in the Plan you must acknowledge and agree to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan by executing this Participation Agreement and returning it to             .
Sincerely,
Kieran Gallahue
Chairman and CEO, CareFusion Corporation
Enclosures
cc: Roger Marchetti
I have read the foregoing Participation Agreement and the Plan, understand their terms and conditions, and hereby agree to be bound thereby:
 
 
APPENDIX B
 
This RELEASE AGREEMENT by and between CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") and             (the "Executive") is dated as of the             day of             ,             (the "Release").
Release
Executive hereby releases the Company and any of its predecessors, successors or assigns to all or any part of its businesses ("") by execution of this Release from any and all claims and causes of action related in any way to the transactions or occurrences between them to date, to the fullest extent permitted by law, including, but not limited to, Executive's employment with CareFusion, the termination of Executive's employment, and all other losses, liabilities, claims, charges, demands and causes of action, whether known or unknown, as of the date of Executive's execution of this Release. Executive agrees that this Release applies to all officers, directors, employees and other representatives of CareFusion and its affiliates and any of its predecessors, successors or assigns to all or any part of its businesses including the Company, both individually and in their respective capacities (collectively with CareFusion, the ""). This Release is intended to have the broadest possible application permitted by law and includes, but is not limited to, claims under any employment agreement between Executive and Company (the ""), and any tort, contract, common law, constitutional or other statutory claims, including, but not limited to, alleged violations of CareFusion's policies or practices; Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act, other federal and state fair employment practices or discrimination laws; laws pertaining to breach of employment contract or wrongful termination; age discrimination claims under the Age Discrimination and Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. Section 621 et seq., the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, 38 U.S.C. Section 4301 et seq.; the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. Section 2101 et seq. and any applicable state laws of similar intent.
CareFusion
Releasees
Employment Agreement
In addition, Executive agrees that Executive will not initiate, bring, or prosecute any suit, action or grievance against any of the Releasees for any released claim in any federal, state, county or municipal court, or any arbitral forum, except as specifically stated below. Executive further agree that if Executive does so, Executive will be liable for the payment of all damages and costs, including attorneys' fees, incurred by any of the Releasees in connection with Executive's suit, action, or grievance. Executive also waives any right to any relief sought in connection with such claims, including any right to damages, attorneys' fees, costs, and all other legal or equitable relief.
This Release and agreement not to sue does not prohibit Executive from pursuing a lawsuit, claim, or charge to challenge the validity or enforceability of this Release under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("") or the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act (""), nor does it render Executive liable for damages or costs, including attorneys' fees, incurred by the Releasees in connection with a lawsuit, claim, or charge to challenge the validity or enforceability of this Release under the ADEA or the OWBPA. This Release and agreement not to sue also does not prohibit Executive from filing charges with government agencies or participating in any investigation resulting from such charges. However, under this Release,
ADEA
OWBPA
Executive agrees not to accept any monetary or personal relief or remedy, including but not limited to back pay, front pay, or reinstatement, or damages of any nature that may be awarded to Executive in connection with such charges. In addition, this general release is not intended to bar any claims that may not be waived by law, such as claims for workers' compensation benefits, unemployment benefits or statutory indemnity, if applicable.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Release, this Release does not apply to any claims arising after Executive's execution of this Release, enforcement of Executive's rights to payments or benefits due or rights enforceable after the execution of this Release under the Employment Agreement, claims under any of the Company's employee benefit plans or any rights Executive may have for indemnification under CareFusion's Amended and Restated By-Laws, Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, applicable law, or any indemnification agreement, or any rights as an insured under CareFusion's D&O insurance policies, as in effect from time to time.
Complete Release
Executive also expressly agrees that Executive has read, understands, and intends to waive any and all rights or benefits described in Section 1542 of the California Civil Code, which provides as follows:
"A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his or her favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him or her must have materially affected his or her settlement with the debtor."
Thus, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1542, and for the express purpose of implementing a full and complete release and discharge of CareFusion and the Releasees , Executive expressly acknowledges that this Release is intended to include within its effect, without limitation, all claims Executive does not know or suspect to exist in Executive's favor at the time of execution of this Release, and this Release contemplates the extinguishment of any such claim(s).
Review of Release
Executive agrees and represents that Executive has been advised of and fully understands the right to discuss all aspects of this Release with an attorney of Executive's choice. Executive's execution of this Release establishes that, if Executive wishes the advice of an attorney, Executive has sought such advice by the date Executive signed this Release, and that Executive was given at least 21 days to consider whether or not to sign. Executive may sign this Release before the end of the 21-day period and Executive agrees that if Executive decides to shorten this time period for signing, Executive's decision was knowing and voluntary. Executive agrees that a change to the Release, whether material or immaterial, does not restart the running of said period.
Executive will have seven days from the date that Executive signs this Release to revoke the Release and to change Executive's mind, in which case this Release shall be ineffective and of no legal force. If Executive so revokes this Release, there will be no obligation on the part of
 
CareFusion to provide Executive with any of the severance benefits described in the Employment Agreement and Executive agrees to repay to CareFusion any such severance benefits previously paid or provided to Executive. Executive's revocation must be in writing and received by CareFusion's Executive Vice President, Human Resources on the seventh day in order to be effective. If Executive does not revoke acceptance within the seven (7) day period, Executive's acceptance of this Release shall become binding and enforceable on the eighth day ("Effective Date").
Nondisparagment
Executive agrees that Executive will not make any written or verbal statements, or encourage others to make any such statements, that defame, disparage or criticize the personal or business reputation, practices or conduct of CareFusion or any of the other Releasees.
General Provisions
Executive agrees to comply with the continuing obligations set forth in the surviving provisions of the Employment Agreement signed by Executive.
By entering into this Release, CareFusion makes no admission that it has engaged, or is now engaging, in any unlawful conduct. The parties understand and acknowledge that this Release is not an admission of liability and shall not be used or construed as such in any legal or administrative proceeding.
In the event any provision of this Release shall be found unenforceable, the unenforceable provision shall be deemed deleted and the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not be affected thereby.
This Release may be pled as a full and complete defense to, and may be used as a basis for an injunction against, any action, suit or other proceeding that may be prosecuted, instituted or attempted by Executive in breach hereof.
The validity, interpretation and performance of this Release shall be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the United States of America and the state in which Executive is employed.
This Release, including the surviving provisions of Executive's Employment Agreement, is intended to be the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes and cancels any and all other and prior agreements, written or oral, between the parties regarding this subject matter. This Release may be amended only by a written instrument executed by all parties hereto.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and the Company has caused this Release to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
APPENDIX C
 
THIS IS TO NOTIFY you in accordance with Section 2872 of the California Labor Code that the foregoing Agreement between you and CareFusion Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company") does not require you to assign or offer to assign to the Company any invention that you developed entirely on your own time without using the Company's equipment, supplies, facilities or trade secret information except for those inventions that either:
 
 
To the extent a provision in the Executive Change in Control Severance Plan purports to require you to assign an invention otherwise excluded from the preceding paragraph, the provision is against the public policy of this state and is unenforceable.
This limited exclusion does not apply to any patent or invention covered by a contract between the Company and the United States or any of its agencies requiring full title to such patent or invention to be in the United States.
I ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT of a copy of this notification.
 
 


