FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20120109080005.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 9, 2012, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release (the "News Release") announcing preliminary financial results for its second fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011 and its updated outlook for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. A copy of the News Release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
In the News Release, the Company presents financial information that includes non-GAAP financial measures. A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 9:00 a.m. EST on January 9, 2012, the Company will discuss its preliminary results for its second fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011 and its updated outlook for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. A live audio broadcast of the call can be accessed through the Company's Investors page at . An archived edition of the call will be available following the live webcast.
www.carefusion.com
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
3750 Torrey View Ct
San Diego, CA 92130
www.CareFusion.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 CareFusion Corporation (NYSE: CFN) today announced preliminary second quarter results in advance of a presentation this afternoon by Chairman and CEO Kieran T. Gallahue at the annual J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference.
SAN DIEGO, Jan. 9, 2012
The company said it expects revenue for its second fiscal quarter, ended Dec. 31, 2011, to be $910 million to $915 million and operating income to be $141 million to $146 million. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating income is expected to be $148 million to $153 million. CareFusion expects income from continuing operations per diluted share (EPS) for the quarter to be $0.39 to $0.43, or $0.41 to $0.45 on an adjusted basis.
CareFusion continues to expect full-year consolidated revenue for fiscal 2012 to grow 3 to 5 percent on a constant currency basis compared to fiscal 2011 revenue of $3.53 billion. The company lowered the bottom end of its full-year adjusted EPS guidance range by $0.05, to a new range of $1.75 to $1.90.
"Our Medical Systems segment continues to anchor us, with strong bookings in the quarter and good visibility through the second half of the year," said Gallahue. "While we continue to have scenarios that enable us to meet our original, full-year EPS commitments, results in our Procedural Solutions segment through Q2 are softer than we forecasted. Our core procedural products, including ChloraPrep and non-dedicated infusion disposables, are performing well and growing faster than the market, just slightly below our expectations. In addition, our margins in the segment were negatively affected by pricing pressure on our less clinically differentiated products. During the quarter, we continued to make good progress with our simplification initiatives and remain committed to our long-term goals."
The company will discuss these preliminary results during a 30-minute conference call today at 9 a.m. EST. To access the call, visit the Investors page at www.carefusion.com. Log on at least 15 minutes before the call begins to register and download or install any necessary audio software. Investors and other interested parties may also access the call by dialing 866-804-6923 within the U.S. or 857-350-1669 from outside the U.S., and use the access code 40641652. A replay of the conference call will be available beginning at 11 a.m. EST through Jan. 16 by dialing 888-286-8010 within the U.S. or 617-801-6888 from outside the U.S., access code 45579906.
 
CareFusion News
Page 2 of 4
 
The results announced today are preliminary and reflect estimates of the company's anticipated tax rate and share count. Final amounts are subject to change due to these and other factors as the company completes its quarterly close and reporting processes. CareFusion intends to announce complete second-quarter results on Feb. 2.
About CareFusion
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve the safety and quality of care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AVEA, AirLife and LTV series ventilation and respiratory products, ChloraPrep products, MedMined services for data mining surveillance, Nicolet neurological monitoring and diagnostic products, V. Mueller surgical instruments, and an extensive line of products that support interventional medicine. CareFusion employs more than 14,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
www.carefusion.com
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures by CareFusion Corporation
This CareFusion news release presents non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain amounts, as follows: "adjusted operating income," which excludes items primarily related to nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges and nonrecurring items related to the spinoff; and "adjusted income from continuing operations per diluted share," which excludes items primarily related to nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges, nonrecurring tax items and nonrecurring items related to the spinoff.
The most directly comparable measure for these non-GAAP financial measures are operating income and income from continuing operations per diluted share (the most comparable GAAP measures). The company has included below unaudited adjusted financial information, which includes a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures.
In addition, CareFusion presents the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted income from continuing operations per diluted share" on a forward-looking basis. CareFusion is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of this forward-looking non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure, because the company cannot reliably forecast restructuring and acquisition integration costs, and other nonrecurring costs. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact CareFusion's future financial results. A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding CareFusion's financial condition and results of operations is included as Exhibit 99.2 to CareFusion's report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Jan. 9, 2012.
Cautions Concerning Forward-looking Statements
The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected financial results for the fiscal quarter and the company's full-year financial guidance. These statements reflect estimates of the company's anticipated tax rate and
 
CareFusion News
Page 3 of 4
 
share count, and final amounts may change due to these and other factors as the company completes its quarterly close and reporting processes. Additional factors that may affect the company's results are described in CareFusion's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: we may be unable to effectively enhance our existing products or introduce and market new products or may fail to keep pace with advances in technology; we are subject to complex and costly regulation; cost containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third-party payers and governmental organizations could adversely affect our sales and profitability; current economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition; we may be unable to realize any benefit from our cost reduction and restructuring efforts and our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected; we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others; defects or failures associated with our products and/or our quality system could lead to the filing of adverse event reports, recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity and could subject us to regulatory actions; we are currently operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA and our failure to comply with the requirements of the amended consent decree may have an adverse effect on our business; and our success depends on our key personnel, and the loss of key personnel or the transition of key personnel, including our chief executive officer, could disrupt our business. The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein reflect management's views as of Jan. 9, 2012. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, CareFusion undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
CareFusion News
Page 4 of 4
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
In addition to financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), information containing non-GAAP financial measures for CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") was disclosed in the Company's news release (the "News Release") dated January 9, 2012 announcing preliminary results for its second fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011 and its updated outlook for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The Company has provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental metrics to assist readers. Definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures are included in the News Release.
In the News Release, the Company presented non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain amounts, as follows:
  This non-GAAP financial measure excludes items primarily related to nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges and nonrecurring items related to the spinoff from Cardinal Health.
"Adjusted operating income"
 This non-GAAP financial measure excludes items primarily related to nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges, nonrecurring tax items and nonrecurring items related to the spinoff from Cardinal Health.
"Adjusted income from continuing operations per diluted share"
Nonrecurring costs related to the spinoff are items, based on Company management judgment, that are incremental expenses directly associated with the spinoff from Cardinal Health and will not recur. A restructuring activity is a program whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re-alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Restructuring charges are recorded in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 420 "Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations" ("ASC 420"). Under ASC 420, a liability is measured at its fair value and recognized as incurred. Nonrecurring tax items are, based on Company management judgment, one-time impacts related to unusual or infrequent transactions not indicative of future operations.
Company management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance. While we may have these types of items and charges in the future, Company management believes that they are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, or discrete and unusual or infrequent transactions that are not indicative of future operations, and that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
The limitation associated with using these non-GAAP financial measures is that these measures exclude items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using these non-GAAP financial measures in combination with "operating income" and "income from continuing operations per diluted share" (the most comparable GAAP measures) because these non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measure.


