FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20121227162544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In connection with the submission by CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") of its Section 303A Annual Written Affirmation to the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE"), the Company is filing this current report on Form 8-K to publicly disclose the corporate governance matters required to be disclosed annually by Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual (the "Manual"). The annual disclosure of these corporate governance matters would typically be included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K and proxy statement. As previously disclosed, the Company is modifying the manner in which it applies lease accounting principles to sales-type leases in its Pyxis medication and supply dispensing product lines and as a result, the Company has delayed the filing of its annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 (the "Form 10-K"). As the Company will not file its Form 10-K or proxy statement prior to December 31, 2012, the Company is providing the disclosures herein in order to satisfy the NYSE requirement to disclose annually information required by Section 303A of the Manual.
The Board of Directors (the "Board") has established categorical standards to assist it in making its determination of director independence. As embodied in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, using standards that the Board has adopted to assist it in assessing independence and in accordance with applicable Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") rules and the listing standards of the NYSE, the Board defines an "independent director" to be a director who:
Director Independence.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board assesses on a regular basis, and at least annually, the independence of the Company's directors and, based on the recommendation of the Governance and Compliance Committee of the Board, makes a determination as to which directors are independent. References to "us," "we" or "the Company" above would include any subsidiary in a consolidated group with CareFusion Corporation. The terms "immediate family member" and "executive officer" above are expected to have the same meaning specified for such terms in the NYSE listing standards.
The Board has determined that the following directors, comprising all of the Company's non-employee directors, are independent under the listing standards of the NYSE and the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines: Messrs. Philip L. Francis, Robert F. Friel, J. Michael Losh, Gregory T. Lucier, Michael D. O'Halleran and Robert P. Wayman and Drs. Jacqueline B. Kosecoff and Edward D. Miller.
Pursuant to the Company's amended and restated by-laws and Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Presiding Director is selected annually by the independent non-employee directors. The Presiding Director presides at meetings of the non-management and independent directors, presides at all meetings of the Board at which the Chairman is not present and performs such other functions as the Board may direct, including advising on the selection of Committee chairs and advising management on the agenda for Board meetings. In addition, the Presiding Director chairs executive sessions of independent non-employee directors, which are held in connection with each regularly scheduled Board meeting and at other times as necessary. The Board has selected Mr. Losh to serve as the Presiding Director.
Presiding Director.
The Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines establish procedures by which stockholders and other interested parties may communicate with the Board, any Board Committee, any individual director (including the Presiding Director) or the independent non-employee directors as a group. Such parties can send communications by mail to the Board in care of the Corporate Secretary, CareFusion Corporation, 3750 Torrey View Court, San Diego, CA 92130. In addition, such parties can contact the Board by emailing the Corporate Secretary at corporatesecretary@carefusion.com. The name or title of any specific recipient or group should be noted in the communication. Communications from stockholders are distributed by the Corporate Secretary to the Board or to the Committee or director(s) to whom the communication is addressed, however the Corporate Secretary will not distribute items that are unrelated to the duties and responsibilities of the Board, such as spam, junk mail and mass mailings, business solicitations and advertisements, and communications that advocate the Company's engaging in illegal activities or that, under community standards, contain offensive, scurrilous or abusive content.
Communicating with the Board.
The Board has three standing Committees, comprised of the Audit Committee, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee and the Governance and Compliance Committee. Each Committee acts pursuant to a written charter, each of which has been posted in the "Investors" section of the Company's website accessible at , by clicking the "Corporate Governance" link. Each Committee reviews its charter on an annual basis. In addition to the three standing Committees, the Board may approve from time to time the creation of special committees to assist the Board in carrying out its duties.
Board and Committee Membership and Structure.
www.carefusion.com
The Audit Committee is comprised of Dr. Kosecoff, Mr. Francis, Mr. Wayman and Mr. Losh (Chair). Mr. Losh was appointed Chair of the Audit Committee effective November 7, 2012, succeeding Mr. Wayman who served as the Chair of the Audit Committee since November 3, 2010. In addition, Mr. Francis was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee effective November 7, 2012. The Board has determined that each member of the Audit Committee is an "audit committee financial expert" for purposes of the rules of the SEC. In reaching this determination, the Board considered, among other things, the prior experience of each of Messrs. Losh and Wayman as a chief financial officer and the prior experience of each of Mr. Francis and Dr. Kosecoff as a chief executive officer. The Board also made a qualitative assessment of our other non-employee directors, to determine their financial knowledge and experience, and determined that they each would also qualify as an "audit committee financial expert" for purposes of the rules of the SEC should they become a member of the Audit Committee in the future. In addition, the Board has determined that Mr. Losh's simultaneous service on the audit committees of more than two other public companies does not impair his ability to effectively serve on the Audit Committee. In reaching this determination, the Board considered Mr. Losh's ability to devote sufficient and substantial time to serve on the Audit Committee. In addition, the Board has determined that each of the members of the Audit Committee is "independent," consistent with the NYSE listing standards, Section 10A(m)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and in accordance with the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
Audit Committee.
 
The Company maintains Corporate Governance Guidelines that are designed to ensure effective corporate governance of the Company. The Corporate Governance Guidelines cover topics including, but not limited to, director qualification criteria, director responsibilities (including those of the Presiding Director), director compensation, director orientation and continuing education, communications from stockholders to the Board, succession planning and the annual evaluations of the Board and its Committees. The Corporate Governance Guidelines are reviewed regularly by the Governance and Compliance Committee of the Board and revised when appropriate. The full text of the Corporate Governance Guidelines can be found in the "Investors" section of the Company's website accessible at , by clicking the "Corporate Governance" link. A printed copy may also be obtained by any stockholder upon request to the Company's Investor Relations Department at 3750 Torrey View Court, San Diego, CA 92130, or by calling (858) 617-4621.
Corporate Governance Guidelines
.
www.carefusion.com
The Board adopted a Code of Conduct for the Company to help ensure that business is conducted in a consistently legal and ethical manner. The Code of Conduct establishes policies pertaining to, among other things, employee conduct in the workplace, electronic communications and information security, accuracy of books, records and financial statements, securities trading, confidentiality, conflicts of interest, fairness in business practices, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, antitrust laws and political activities and solicitations. All Company employees, including executive officers, as well as members of the Board, are required to comply with the Code of Conduct. The full text of the Code of Conduct can be found in the "Investors" section of the Company's website accessible to the public at , by clicking the "Corporate Governance" link. A printed copy may also be obtained by any stockholder upon request to the Investor Relations Department at 3750 Torrey View Court, San Diego, CA 92130, or by calling (858) 617-4621. The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and approving all amendments to the Code of Conduct and all waivers of the Code of Conduct for executive officers or directors, and providing for prompt disclosure of all amendments and waivers required to be disclosed under applicable law. The Company will disclose future amendments to the Code of Conduct, or waivers required to be disclosed under applicable law from the Code of Conduct for the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and other executive officers and directors, on the Company's website, , within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver.
Policies on Ethics and Compliance
.
www.carefusion.com
www.carefusion.com
In August 2011, in furtherance of the Company's commitment to the highest standards of ethical practice, corporate conduct and integrity, the Board adopted the CareFusion Compliance Program Declaration and Description. The purpose of the compliance program is to increase the likelihood of preventing, detecting, and correcting violations of law or Company policy, and the declaration provides additional descriptions of compliance policies, procedures and efforts to establish an effective compliance program. The Compliance Program Declaration and Description can be found in the "Ethics and Compliance" section of our website accessible at www.carefusion.com, by clicking the "Our Company" link.
In addition, the Company maintains a Conduct Line by which employees may report violations of the Code of Conduct or seek guidance on business conduct matters. The Conduct Line is operated by an independent, third-party company, and has multi-lingual representatives available to take calls confidentially 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and can also be accessed via the Internet at .
www.carefusionconductline.com
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


