FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20120202160553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 2, 2012, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release (the "News Release") announcing its results for the quarter and six months ended December 31, 2011. A copy of the News Release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 to this report.
 
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 2:00 p.m. PST on February 2, 2012, the Company will discuss its results for the quarter and six months ended December 31, 2011. The slide presentation for the conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
                  
3750 Torrey View Ct
                  
San Diego, CA 92130
                  
www.CareFusion.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 CareFusion Corp. (NYSE: CFN), a leading, global medical technology company, today reported results for the three and six months ended Dec. 31, 2011.
SAN DIEGO, Feb. 2, 2012
"Our second quarter results were led by strong performance across the Medical Systems segment, with our three major businesses achieving positive gains and positioning us well for the second half of the year," said Kieran Gallahue, chairman and CEO. "These results were partially offset by our performance in the Procedural Solutions segment, as we indicated in our preliminary earnings report last month. We continue to believe that our highly differentiated Procedural Solutions products will grow faster than the market and remain meaningful contributors to our long-term performance.
"We continued to make good progress on our efforts to build our foundation and to invest in areas that will help simplify how we do business so we can expand margins and accelerate top-line growth over the long term. We remain committed to our long-term growth targets and are confident we will make progress against these goals this fiscal year."
Second Quarter Results
The company reported revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 of $915 million, compared to $886 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, an increase of 3 percent on a reported and constant currency basis.
Operating income was $143 million, an increase of 17 percent compared to $122 million in the prior year period. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating income for the second quarter was
 
CareFusion News
Page 2 of 12
 
unchanged at $150 million.
Operating expenses totaled $314 million in the second quarter. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating expenses were $307 million, an increase of 4 percent over the prior year period, primarily driven by operating expenses from Rowa Technologies, which the company acquired in August 2011. In addition, the company increased investments in research and development during the quarter and benefited from ongoing cost-savings initiatives in the company's administrative support functions.
The company reported income from continuing operations in the second quarter of $95 million, or $0.42 per diluted share. Adjusted income from continuing operations increased 4 percent from the prior year period to $99 million, or $0.44 per diluted share. The adjusted tax rate was 25.2 percent for the second quarter.
Medical Systems
Second quarter revenue for the Medical Systems segment increased 9 percent from the prior year period on a reported and constant currency basis to $571 million, driven by strong sales across the segment. The company's Dispensing Technologies business, which grew in part from a contribution from the first-quarter acquisition of Rowa Technologies, also delivered its second strongest first-half organic revenue and committed contract performance in its history. The Infusion Systems business also achieved solid revenue growth, driven by installations of a record number of competitive channels during the quarter.
The revenue growth resulted in higher segment profit for the quarter, which increased 27 percent from the prior year period to $121 million. Adjusted segment profit increased 12 percent from the prior year period to $124 million.
Procedural Solutions
Second quarter revenue for the Procedural Solutions segment decreased 5 percent from the prior year period on a reported and constant currency basis. The decrease was driven, in part, by the loss of sales from divesting the company's OnSite Services business in March 2011. Net of the OnSite Services business divestiture, segment revenues decreased 2 percent from the prior year period. The segment results were also affected by decreased sales of respiratory disposables products in the Specialty Disposables business.
The revenue decline led to a decrease in segment profit of 19 percent from the prior year period to $22 million, and adjusted segment profit decreased 33 percent to $26 million.
Six-Month Results
For the first six months of fiscal 2012, revenue increased 4 percent from the prior year period to $1.76 billion. Operating income increased to $251 million from $201 million in the prior year period. Income from continuing operations was $162 million, or $0.72 per diluted share. Adjusted income from continuing operations increased 10 percent from the prior year period to $175 million, or $0.78 per diluted share.
Operating expenses in the first six months totaled $633 million, or $615 million on an adjusted basis.
 
CareFusion News
Page 3 of 12
 
Segment results for the six months ended Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows:
 
 
Additional second quarter and recent highlights included:
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal 2012 Outlook
CareFusion continues to expect full-year consolidated revenue to grow 3 to 5 percent on a constant currency basis compared to fiscal 2011 revenue of $3.53 billion. The company narrowed its previous full-year guidance range for adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations of $1.75 to $1.90 to a new range of $1.75 to $1.85.
The guidance is based on an assumed diluted weighted average outstanding share count of approximately 227 million.
 
CareFusion News
Page 4 of 12
 
Conference Call
CareFusion will host a conference call today at 2 p.m. PST (5 p.m. EST) to discuss earnings results for the second quarter fiscal 2012.
To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, visit the Investors page at . Log on at least 15 minutes before the call begins to register and download or install any necessary audio software.
www.carefusion.com
Investors and other interested parties may also access the call by dialing (800) 901-5247 within the U.S. or (617) 786-4501 from outside the U.S., and use the access code 28588340. A replay of the conference call will be available from 5 p.m. PST (8 p.m. EST) on Feb. 2 through 8:59 p.m. PST (11:59 p.m. EST) on Feb. 9 and can be accessed by dialing (888) 286-8010 in the U.S. or (617) 801-6888 internationally and using the access code 19918894.
About CareFusion Corporation
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve the safety and quality of care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AVEA, AirLife and LTV series ventilation and respiratory products, ChloraPrep products, MedMined services for data mining surveillance, Nicolet neurological monitoring and diagnostic products, V. Mueller surgical instruments, and an extensive line of products that support interventional medicine. CareFusion employs more than 14,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
www.carefusion.com
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures by CareFusion Corporation
This CareFusion news release presents non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain amounts, as follows: which exclude nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff and nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges; which exclude nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff, nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges and nonrecurring tax items; and which excludes nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff and nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges.
"adjusted operating expenses" and "adjusted operating income",
"adjusted income from continuing operations", "adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations" and "adjusted tax rate",
"adjusted segment profit",
The most directly comparable measure for these non-GAAP financial measures are operating expenses, operating income, income from continuing operations, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, tax rate, and segment profit (the most comparable GAAP measures). The company has included below unaudited adjusted financial information for the quarters and six months ended Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010, which includes a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures.
In addition, CareFusion presents the non-GAAP financial measure on a forward-looking basis. CareFusion is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of this forward-looking non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure, because the company cannot reliably forecast restructuring and acquisition integration costs, and other nonrecurring costs. Please note that the
"adjusted income from continuing operations per diluted share"
 
CareFusion News
Page 5 of 12
 
unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact CareFusion's future financial results. A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding CareFusion's financial condition and results of operations is included as Exhibit 99.3 to CareFusion's report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Feb. 2, 2012.
Cautions Concerning Forward-looking Statements
The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in CareFusion's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: we may be unable to effectively enhance our existing products or introduce and market new products or may fail to keep pace with advances in technology; we are subject to complex and costly regulation; cost containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third-party payers and governmental organizations could adversely affect our sales and profitability; current economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition; we may be unable to realize any benefit from our cost reduction and restructuring efforts and our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected; we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others; defects or failures associated with our products and/or our quality system could lead to the filing of adverse event reports, recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity and could subject us to regulatory actions; we are currently operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA and our failure to comply with the requirements of the amended consent decree may have an adverse effect on our business; and our success depends on our key personnel, and the loss of key personnel or the transition of key personnel, including our chief executive officer, could disrupt our business. The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein reflect management's views as of Feb. 2, 2012. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, CareFusion undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
CareFusion News
Page 6 of 12
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 7 of 12
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 8 of 12
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 9 of 12
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 10 of 12
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 11 of 12
 
 
 
 
CareFusion News
Page 12 of 12
 
 
 
 


Exhibit 99.3
In addition to financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), information containing non-GAAP financial measures for CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") was disclosed in the Company's news release (the "News Release") dated February 2, 2012 announcing results for the quarter ended December 31, 2011 and in a slide presentation (the "Presentation") that accompanied a conference call held by the Company on February 2, 2012 to discuss the Company's financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2011 and outlook for its fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The Company has provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental metrics to assist readers. Definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures are included in the News Release.
In the News Release and the Presentation, the Company presented non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain amounts, as follows:
 These non-GAAP financial measures exclude items primarily related to nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges and nonrecurring items related to the spinoff from Cardinal Health.
"Adjusted operating expenses" and "adjusted operating income"
 These non-GAAP financial measures exclude items primarily related to nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges, nonrecurring tax items and nonrecurring items related to the spinoff from Cardinal Health.
"Adjusted income from continuing operations", "adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations" and "adjusted tax rate"
 This non-GAAP financial measure excludes items primarily related to nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges and nonrecurring items related to the spinoff from Cardinal Health.
"Adjusted segment profit"
Nonrecurring costs related to the spinoff are items, based on Company management judgment, that are incremental expenses directly associated with the spinoff from Cardinal Health and will not recur. A restructuring activity is a program whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re-alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Restructuring charges are recorded in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 420 "Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations" ("ASC 420"). Under ASC 420, a liability is measured at its fair value and recognized as incurred. Nonrecurring tax items are, based on Company management judgment, one-time impacts related to unusual or infrequent transactions not indicative of future operations.
Company management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance. While we may have these types of items and charges in the future, Company management believes that they are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, or discrete and unusual or infrequent transactions that are not indicative of future operations, and that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
The limitation associated with using these non-GAAP financial measures is that these measures exclude items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using these non-GAAP financial measures in combination with "operating expenses", "operating income", "income from continuing operations", "diluted earnings per share from continuing operations", "tax rate" and "segment profit" (the most comparable GAAP measures) because these non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measure.


