FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20120210083207.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 10, 2012, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release (the "News Release") announcing that its Board of Directors authorized a program to purchase up to $500 million of the Company's common stock from time to time, based on market conditions. A copy of the News Release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
3750 Torrey View Ct
San Diego, CA 92130
www.CareFusion.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 Corp. (NYSE: CFN), a leading, global medical technology company, today announced that its board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of the company's common stock.
SAN DIEGO, Feb. 10, 2012
CareFusion
"This share repurchase program reflects our confidence in CareFusion's growth potential and our commitment to increasing shareholder value," said Kieran Gallahue, chairman and CEO. "With our strong balance sheet and cash flow generation, we also remain committed to making disciplined, strategic investments for growth that will maximize value for our shareholders over the long term."
The program authorizes the company to repurchase shares of its common stock through open market and private transactions. The size and timing of any purchases are at the discretion of management, based on factors such as price, business and market conditions. The share repurchase program is expected to continue through December 2013.
This is the first share repurchase program for CareFusion, which spun off from Cardinal Health and began operating as a separate publicly traded company in September 2009. The company had approximately 227 million shares of common stock outstanding as of Dec. 31, 2011.
About CareFusion Corporation
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve the safety and quality of care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AVEA, AirLife and LTV series ventilation and respiratory products, ChloraPrep products, MedMined services for data mining surveillance, Nicolet neurological monitoring and diagnostic products, V. Mueller surgical instruments, and an extensive line of products that support interventional medicine. CareFusion employs more than 14,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
www.carefusion.com
Cautions Concerning Forward-looking Statements
The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are
subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about CareFusion's intention to repurchase shares of its common stock, including the amount and timing of its repurchase program. The forward-looking statements contained herein are based on the current expectations and assumptions of CareFusion and not on historical facts. The following important factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements: uncertainties as to the market price of CareFusion's common stock, market conditions in general and CareFusion's future operating performance. Additional factors that may affect future results are described in CareFusion's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports that it files with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, CareFusion undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


