FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20120914083538.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed by CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") in its Form 12b-25 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on August 29, 2012, the Company delayed the filing of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 (the "Form 10-K") to consult with the Office of the Chief Accountant of the Commission regarding the Company's accounting policy for sales-type leases in its Pyxis medication and supply dispensing product lines. Pursuant to Rule 12b-25 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company received an extension until September 13, 2012 (the "Filing Due Date") to file the Form 10-K, which has now expired.
On September 14, 2012, the Company issued a news release (the "News Release") disclosing the receipt of a letter from NYSE Regulation, Inc. (the "NYSE") informing the Company that, as a result of its failure to timely file the Form 10-K, the Company is not currently in compliance with the NYSE's continued listing requirements and is subject to certain procedures as specified in Section 802.01E, "SEC Annual Report Timely Filing Criteria," of the NYSE's Listed Company Manual. In accordance with the NYSE's procedures, the Company is required to contact the NYSE to discuss the status of the Form 10-K and to issue a press release pertaining to the late filing by the fifth business day following the receipt of the NYSE notification. The Company has contacted the NYSE to inform them of the filing status and has issued the News Release within the five day period. The Company has six months from the Filing Due Date to cure this deficiency. The Company can regain compliance at any time during this six-month cure period once it files its Form 10-K with the Commission. In the event that the Company has failed to cure the deficiency by the expiration of the six-month cure period, the NYSE may grant, at its discretion, a further extension of up to six months trading period, depending on the specific circumstances.
The Company's common stock remains listed on the NYSE under the symbol "CFN," but will be assigned a "LF" indicator by the NYSE to signify the Company's late filing status.
A copy of the News Release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
                3750 Torrey View Ct
                San Diego, CA 92130
                www.CareFusion.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
SAN DIEGO, Sept. 14, 2012  CareFusion Corp. (NYSE: CFN) today announced it has delayed filing its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30 beyond the Sept. 13 extended filing due date. As CareFusion indicated on Aug. 29, the company is consulting with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) about its accounting policy for sales-type leases in its Pyxis medication and supply dispensing product lines.
As a result of the filing delay, the company received a notice from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) indicating CareFusion is not currently in compliance with continued listing requirements under the timely filing criteria outlined in Section 802.01E of the NYSE-Listed Company Manual. The issuing of such notices is considered routine practice in situations when there are late filings with the SEC.
Under NYSE rules, CareFusion has six months from Sept. 13 to file its Form 10-K. Until CareFusion files its Form 10-K, CareFusion's common stock will remain listed on the NYSE under the symbol "CFN," but will be assigned a "LF" indicator to signify late filing status. The company can regain compliance with the NYSE listing standards at any time during this six-month period once it files its Form 10-K with the SEC.
CareFusion about the company's accounting policy for its Pyxis sales-type leases. The consultation process with the SEC is ongoing. Once this process is complete, the company will assess any impact on its financial statements and file its Form 10-K as soon as practicable.
previously disclosed that it was consulting with the SEC
The matter does not affect CareFusion customers or the underlying fundamentals and cash flows of the company or its Pyxis business.
About CareFusion Corporation
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve the safety and quality of care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AVEA, AirLife and LTV series ventilation and respiratory products, ChloraPrep products, MedMined services for data mining surveillance, V. Mueller surgical instruments, and an extensive line of products that support interventional medicine. CareFusion employs more than 15,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
www.carefusion.com
Cautions Concerning Forward-looking Statements
The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein presents "forward-looking statements," including the company's statements regarding its accounting policies, the impact of potential changes in the company's accounting policies, the impact of potential adjustments to the company's prior financial reports, and the company's timing for filing its Form 10-K. The company intends forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "anticipates," "plans," or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, which could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risk that additional information may arise during the course of the company's lease accounting review that may require the company to make additional adjustments, the time and effort required to complete the company's discussions with the SEC, and the time and effort required to make any adjustments to the company's financial reports, if required, as well as other risks described more fully in Item 1A in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, which are expressly incorporated herein by reference, and other factors as may periodically be described in the company's filings with the SEC. The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein reflect management's views as of Sept. 14, 2012. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, CareFusion undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


