FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20120809160712.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
On August 9, 2012, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") issued a news release (the "News Release") announcing its results for the quarter and fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the News Release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time on August 9, 2012, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will discuss the Company's results for the quarter and fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 and the outlook for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013. The slide presentation for the conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
In the News Release and slide presentation, the Company presents non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain amounts, including, "adjusted operating expenses", "adjusted operating income", "adjusted income from continuing operations", "adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations", "adjusted effective tax rate", and "adjusted segment profit". Definitions of these non-GAAP financial measures, including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures, are contained in the News Release and the slide presentation. The Company's management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance and provides them to investors as a supplement to the Company's reported results, as they believe this information provides additional insight into the Company's operating performance by disregarding certain non-recurring items. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or as superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the Company's financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
*Furnished herewith.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
*Furnished herewith.

Exhibit 99.1
                3750 Torrey View Ct
                San Diego, CA 92130
                www.CareFusion.com
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 
 CareFusion Corp. (NYSE: CFN), a leading, global medical technology company, today reported results for the quarter and fiscal year ended June 30, 2012.
SAN DIEGO, Aug. 9, 2012
"Fiscal 2012 was an important year in the company's transformation, as we worked to build our foundation for long-term growth," said Kieran Gallahue, chairman and CEO. "I am proud of our team for the progress we made this year to optimize our portfolio, simplify the complexity of our infrastructure, and reduce administrative expenses to fund R&D and other growth initiatives.
"Our fourth quarter results once again highlighted the strength of our Medical Systems segment, which delivered strong performance throughout the year. The Procedural Solutions segment performed in line with our expectations and continued to make the necessary changes to enable future segment growth. Overall, we finished the year well-positioned to execute on our fiscal 2013 objectives, as we deploy capital to invest in long-term growth."
Fourth Quarter Results
The company reported revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 of $968 million, compared to $940 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, an increase of 3 percent on a reported basis and 4 percent on a constant currency basis.
 
Operating income was $176 million, an increase of 18 percent compared to $149 million in the prior year period. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating income rose 2 percent to $183 million. For the quarter, adjusted operating income was 18.9 percent of revenue.
Operating expenses totaled $313 million, a decrease of 7 percent over the prior year period. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating expenses decreased 1 percent to $306 million. During the quarter, the company increased investments in research and development by 21 percent to $46 million, funded in part by ongoing cost-savings initiatives in administrative support functions.
Income from continuing operations increased 11 percent to $107 million, or $0.48 per diluted share. Adjusted income from continuing operations decreased 3 percent from the prior year period to $114 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, primarily driven by a higher adjusted effective tax rate during the quarter of 28.7 percent.
Medical Systems
Fourth quarter revenue for the Medical Systems segment was $646 million, an increase over the prior year period of 9 percent on a reported basis and 10 percent on a constant currency basis. The increase was driven by record installations in Infusion Systems and double-digit sales increases in both Respiratory Technologies and Dispensing Technologies, which continued to benefit from the August 2011 acquisition of Rowa.
Segment profit for the quarter increased 29 percent from the prior year period to $148 million, and adjusted segment profit increased 16 percent to $151 million.
Procedural Solutions
In line with the company's expectations, fourth quarter revenue for the Procedural Solutions segment was $322 million, a decrease from the prior year period of 7 percent on a reported basis and 6 percent on a constant currency basis. The decrease was primarily driven by year-over-year declines in the Specialty Disposables business, which experienced strong sales growth in the prior year period as distributors purchased additional inventory in advance of a business model transition.
Segment profit decreased 22 percent from the prior year period to $28 million, and adjusted segment profit decreased 35 percent to $32 million.
Fiscal Year 2012 Results
Revenue for fiscal 2012 increased 5 percent from the prior year to $3.6 billion. Operating income increased 19 percent to $590 million, from $497 million in fiscal 2011. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating income rose 4 percent to $627 million. Throughout the fiscal year, operating income as a percent of revenue improved sequentially over four consecutive quarters to finish fiscal 2012 at 16.4 percent, or 17.4 percent on an adjusted basis.
Income from continuing operations was $373 million, or $1.65 per diluted share, for fiscal 2012. Adjusted income from continuing operations increased 7 percent from the prior year to $402 million, or $1.78 per diluted share.
 
Operating expenses for fiscal 2012 totaled $1.2 billion on both a reported and adjusted basis. During the year, the company increased R&D expenses by 12 percent from the prior year to $164 million, reflecting the company's continued investments in product development and innovation. The company also benefited from planned, double-digit expense reductions in corporate overhead.
Within the Medical Systems segment, revenue for fiscal 2012 increased 11 percent to $2.32 billion, driven by strong performance across the segment. Dispensing Technologies and Infusion Systems delivered record sales years, and Respiratory Technologies contributed its strongest performance in a post-H1N1 environment. Segment profit increased 28 percent from the prior year to $481 million, an increase of 14 percent to $502 million on an adjusted basis.
Revenue for the Procedural Solutions segment decreased 5 percent from the prior year to $1.28 billion. The decrease was driven by declines in the Specialty Disposables business and the loss of sales from divesting the company's OnSite Services business in March 2011. Segment profit was even with the prior year at $109 million and decreased 23 percent to $125 million on an adjusted basis.
Recent Highlights
Additional fourth quarter and recent highlights included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2013 Outlook
For the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013, CareFusion expects revenue to grow 1 to 3 percent on a constant currency basis compared to fiscal 2012 revenue of $3.6 billion. Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations are expected to be in the range of $1.92 to $2.02. Excluding
 
acquisition-related amortization, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations are expected to be in the range of $2.11 to $2.21, compared to fiscal 2012 results of $2.00.
The guidance is based on an assumed diluted weighted average outstanding share count of approximately 221 million, which includes the impact of expected share repurchases during fiscal 2013.
Conference Call
CareFusion will host a and conference call today at 2 p.m. PDT (5 p.m. EDT) to discuss the results for the fourth quarter and fiscal 2012.
webcast
To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, visit the . Log on at least 15 minutes before the call begins to register and download or install any necessary audio software.
Investors page at www.carefusion.com
Investors and other interested parties may also access the call by dialing (800) 901-5248 within the U.S. or (617) 786-4512 from outside the U.S., and use the access code 54529592. A replay of the conference call will be available from 4 p.m. PDT (7 p.m. EDT) on Aug. 9 through 8:59 p.m. PDT (11:59 p.m. EDT) on Aug. 16 and can be accessed by dialing (888) 286-8010 in the U.S. or (617) 801-6888 internationally and using the access code 21592468.
About CareFusion Corporation
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve the safety and quality of care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AVEA, AirLife and LTV series ventilation and respiratory products, ChloraPrep products, MedMined services for data mining surveillance, V. Mueller surgical instruments, and an extensive line of products that support interventional medicine. CareFusion employs more than 15,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
www.carefusion.com
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures by CareFusion Corporation
This CareFusion news release and the information contained herein present non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain amounts, as follows: and which exclude nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff and nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges; and which exclude nonrecurring items primarily related to the spinoff, nonrecurring restructuring and acquisition integration charges and nonrecurring tax items. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measures for these non-GAAP financial measures are operating expenses, operating income, segment profit, income from continuing operations, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations and effective tax rate. The company has included below unaudited adjusted financial information for the quarters and fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, which includes a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures.
"adjusted operating expenses," "adjusted operating income"
"adjusted segment profit,"
"adjusted income from continuing operations," "adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations" and "adjusted effective tax rate,"
 
The company's management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the company's performance and provides them to investors as a supplement to the company's reported results, as they believe this information provides additional insight into the company's operating performance by disregarding certain non-recurring items. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or as superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the company's financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. While the types of items and charges excluded from the company's non-GAAP financial measures may occur in the future, the company's management believes that they are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, or discrete and unusual or infrequent transactions that are not indicative of future operations or business trends.
Cautions Concerning Forward-looking Statements
The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein present forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in CareFusion's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: we may be unable to effectively enhance our existing products or introduce and market new products or may fail to keep pace with advances in technology; we are subject to complex and costly regulation; cost containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third-party payers and governmental organizations could adversely affect our sales and profitability; current economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition; we may be unable to realize any benefit from our cost reduction and restructuring efforts and our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected; we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others; defects or failures associated with our products and/or our quality system could lead to the filing of adverse event reports, recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity and could subject us to regulatory actions; we are currently operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA and our failure to comply with the requirements of the amended consent decree may have an adverse effect on our business; and our success depends on our key personnel, and the loss of key personnel or the transition of key personnel, including our chief executive officer, could disrupt our business. The CareFusion news release and the information contained herein reflect management's views as of Aug. 9, 2012. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, CareFusion undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



