FILE:CFN/CFN-8K-20120423070159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 20, 2012, CareFusion Corporation (the "Company") entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Nicolet neurodiagnostic and monitoring products business (the "Nicolet Business") to Natus Medical Incorporated for a sale price of approximately $58 million in cash, subject to post closing adjustment related to working capital. The Company concluded that, because the anticipated sale price for the Nicolet Business represents a discount to the current value of the assets as recorded on its financial statements, the Company will be required to record an impairment charge during the third quarter of fiscal 2012. Based on the anticipated sale price, the Company expects to record a pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $74 million, of which approximately $11 million represents expected future cash expenditures by the Company. The final after-tax charge may fluctuate based on adjustments to the purchase price at closing, as well as any tax impact related to the sale.
 
On April 23, 2012, the Company issued a news release (the "News Release") in which it announced it had entered into a definitive agreement to sell the Nicolet Business to Natus Medical Incorporated. A copy of the News Release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
As set forth in the News Release, the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to be completed in July 2012 (the Company's first quarter of fiscal 2013). The Company estimates that its diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2012 (on a GAAP basis and an adjusted basis) will be negatively impacted by approximately $(0.02) as a result of the sale of the Nicolet Business. Because the criteria for discontinued operations was met during the Company's third quarter of fiscal 2012, the financial results of the Nicolet Business will be classified as discontinued operations commencing with the third quarter of fiscal 2012. The Company intends to discuss the impact of the sale of the Nicolet Business during its earnings conference call scheduled for May 3, 2012 to discuss the Company's financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2012.
This report contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the expected timing of the sale of the Nicolet Business, the sale price, estimates regarding impairment charges and future cash expenditures and the impact on the Company's financial results. The forward-looking statements contained herein are based on current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. There are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements including the satisfaction of conditions to closing the sale, adjustments to the sale price and the potential for unanticipated charges not currently expected. Additional factors that may affect future results are described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2011, and Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2011. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 (NYSE: CFN), a global medical technology company, and (NASDAQ: BABY), a leading provider of health care screening, diagnostic and treatment products, today announced that they have entered into an agreement to sell the CareFusion Nicolet business to Natus for a cash purchase price of approximately $58 million. Based in Madison, Wis., the Nicolet business employs more than 400 people worldwide and generated sales of approximately $95 million in 2011.
SAN DIEGO and SAN CARLOS, Calif., April 23, 2012
CareFusion
Natus Medical Incorporated
"The decision to divest the Nicolet business is in line with our strategy to simplify and focus our operations and prioritize our investments to profitably grow over the long term," said Kieran Gallahue, chairman and CEO of CareFusion. "We have a dedicated team in the Nicolet business that will have greater scale and access to broader market opportunities as part of Natus."
The Nicolet business develops clinically differentiated neurodiagnostic and monitoring products, including a portfolio of electroencephalography (EEG) and electromyography (EMG) systems and related accessories, as well as vascular and obstetric doppler sensors and connectivity products.
"The Nicolet acquisition will strengthen our existing neurology portfolio and provide us with new product categories," said Jim Hawkins, CEO of Natus. "Combining our strong product portfolio and support expertise with that of CareFusion's Nicolet business will allow us to bring additional value to our customers.
"Further, this acquisition will better position Natus in international markets, as over 50 percent of the CareFusion Nicolet business is in markets outside of the United States."
Since its spinoff from Cardinal Health in 2009, CareFusion has simplified its portfolio by divesting five non-strategic businesses and has completed four acquisitions to build scale, expand global reach and add adjacent technologies to existing businesses.
The acquisition is expected to close in July 2012, subject to customary closing conditions. The cash purchase price is subject to working capital adjustments. Natus plans to finance the acquisition with existing cash and borrowings under its revolving credit facility.
Natus Medical Conference Call
Natus has scheduled an investment-community conference call to discuss this announcement beginning at 9 a.m. Eastern Time (6 a.m. Pacific Time), today, April 23, 2012. Natus will issue a separate press release announcing the call and will post details of the call to its investor site at http://investor.natus.com.
About CareFusion
CareFusion (NYSE: CFN) is a global corporation serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals measurably improve the safety and quality of care. The company develops market-leading technologies including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, AVEA, Air and LTV series ventilation and respiratory products, ChloraPrep skin prep products, MedMined services for data mining surveillance, Nicolet neurological monitoring and diagnostic products, V. Mueller surgical instruments, and an extensive line of products that support interventional medicine. CareFusion employs more than 14,000 people across its global operations. More information may be found at .
Life
www.carefusion.com
About Natus Medical
Natus is a leading provider of health care products used for the screening, detection, treatment, monitoring and tracking of common medical ailments in newborn care, hearing impairment, neurological dysfunction, epilepsy, sleep disorders, and balance and mobility disorders. Product offerings include computerized neurodiagnostic systems for audiology, neurology, polysomnography, and neonatology, as well as newborn care products such as hearing screening systems, phototherapy devices for the treatment of newborn jaundice, head-cooling products for the treatment of brain injury in newborns, incubators to control the newborn's environment, and software systems for managing and tracking disorders and diseases for public health laboratories.
Additional information about Natus Medical can be found at .
www.natus.com
Cautions concerning forward-looking statements
This news release and the information contained herein contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the expected timing of the anticipated sale, sale price and post sale plans and intentions. The forward-looking statements contained herein are based on current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. There are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements including the satisfaction of conditions to closing the sale and adjustments to the sale price. Additional factors that may affect future results are described in CareFusion's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended June 30, 2011, Natus' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and other filings by each company with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, CareFusion and Natus disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


