FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20030227120820.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
Torchmark Corporation issued a press release dated February 27, 2003, which is incorporated herein by reference and attached hereto as an exhibit.
 
Item 7.     Financial Statement and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99. 1
 
 
 
 
 
Birmingham, Alabama, February 27, 2003  The Board of Directors of Torchmark Corporation (NYSE: TMK) has declared a quarterly dividend of $.09 per share on all of the outstanding common stock of the Company held of record as of the close of business of the Company's transfer agent on April 3, 2003. This dividend will be paid on May 1, 2003.
 
Torchmark also announced today that Mark S. McAndrew, 49, has been elected Chairman of Insurance Operations of Torchmark Corporation. At the time of his promotion, Mr. McAndrew was Executive Vice President of Torchmark. Elected to the Torchmark Board of Directors in 1998, he is also Chairman and CEO of Torchmark subsidiaries American Income Life Insurance Company, Waco, Texas; Globe Life And Accident Insurance Company, Oklahoma City; and United American Insurance Company, McKinney, Texas. Mr. McAndrew has been with Torchmark since 1980.
 
Torchmark Corporation is a financial services holding company specializing in life and supplemental health insurance for "middle income" Americans marketed through multiple distribution channels including direct response, and exclusive and independent agencies. Subsidiary Globe Life And Accident is a nationally recognized direct-response provider of life insurance known for its administrative efficiencies. United American has been a nationally recognized provider of Medicare supplement health insurance since 1966. Liberty National Life, one of the oldest traditional life insurers in the Southeast, is the largest life insurer in its home state of Alabama. American Income Life is nationally recognized for providing supplemental life insurance to labor union members.
 
For additional information contact: Joyce Lane
 Vice President, Investor Relations
 Phone: 972/569-3627
 Fax: 972/569-3696
 
jlane@torchmarkcorp.com
 Website: www.torchmarkcorp.com
 


