FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20041221160147.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits of the Form 8-K dated December 21, 2004 is amended to correct the conformed signature on behalf of MidFirst Bank on Exhibit 10.1 Purchase Agreement for Purchase of Participation Interest in Loan dated December 17, 2004 between MidFirst Bank and Liberty National Life Insurance Company.
 
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT is made effective the
17
th
day of , 2004, by and between MidFirst Bank ("Purchaser"), a federally chartered savings association and Liberty National Life Insurance Company ("Seller"), an Alabama corporation.
December    
 
 
WHEREAS, Seller is the owner of a certain participation interest in a certain commercial loan ("Participation Interest") in the original principal amount of $22,500,000 to MSI 83 King, L.L.C. ("83 King Loan") secured by certain real property collateral described on Exhibit "A" attached hereto;
 
WHEREAS, Purchaser desires to purchase the Participation Interest in the 83 King Loan; and
 
WHEREAS, Purchaser, as Lender, and Seller, as Participant, have previously entered into a Loan Participation Agreement covering the 83 King Loan being identified on Exhibit "B" attached hereto (the "LPA"), and upon the closing of the purchase of the 83 King Loan, the LPA shall be terminated, and Purchaser, as Lender in the LPA shall be released from any and all liability from inception and forever, and for every cause whatsoever.
 
WHEREAS, Seller desires to sell the Participation Interest to Purchaser on terms set forth herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants, conditions and promises hereinafter contained, the parties agree as follows:
 
 
1. . Seller agrees to sell and Purchaser agrees to purchase all of Seller's right, title and interest in the Participation Interest, without warranty or recourse, except as otherwise set forth herein.
Sale of Participation Interest
 
2. . The total purchase price for the Participation Interest purchased in the 83 King Loan is Seventeen Million, One Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($17,100,000). Purchaser and Seller shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations with respect to the sale and transfer of the Participation Interest. Seller and Purchaser understand and agree that there are no commitments or obligations on the part of the Seller to sell, or the Purchaser to purchase, any other participation interests in any other existing commercial loans wherein Purchaser is the Lender and Seller is the Participant.
Purchase Price
 
3. . Seller shall on the Transfer Date execute and cause to be delivered to Purchaser for the Participation Interest purchased, an original assignment from Seller, as assignor, to Purchaser, as assignee, duly executed, attested and acknowledged and otherwise in form acceptable to Purchaser.
Assignment of Participation Interest
 
4. . Seller agrees to provide, or cause to be provided, on or before December 27, 2004, to Purchaser, at Seller's cost, but with Purchaser's assistance, with down date title insurance commitment to endorse ("down date endorsement"), the existing mortgagee's title policy for the 83 King Loan, the review of which must be acceptable to Purchaser in all respects. If Purchaser's review of the down date endorsement, is unacceptable to Purchaser, Purchaser shall, on or before December 31, 2004, notify Seller, and Purchaser may terminate this Agreement, at Purchaser's sole option, by notice to Seller.
Title
 
5. . Upon the date the Participation Interest is transferred from Seller to Purchaser, which date shall be on or before December 31, 2004, if not terminated by Purchaser in accordance with Section 4 hereof ("Transfer Date"), Purchaser shall pay the Purchase Price to Seller. Seller shall physically deliver to Purchaser the following documents for the Participation Interest:
Transfers
 
 
 
 
 
Seller shall pay all title and closing costs, except that Seller and Purchaser shall pay their respective attorney's fees.
 
6. . Seller covenants and agrees as follows:
Obligations of Seller
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All representations and warranties contained herein or otherwise made in writing pursuant hereto are now true and correct and shall be true and correct as of the Transfer Date with the same force and effect as though made at such time. All of said representations and warranties shall survive the consummation of the transaction contemplated hereby.
 
8. . Purchaser covenants and agrees as follows:
Purchaser's Covenants
 
 
9. . Purchaser warrants and represents the following:
Purchaser's Warranties and Representations
 
 
 
All representations and warranties contained herein or otherwise made in writing pursuant hereto are now true and correct and shall be true and correct as of the Transfer Date with the same force and effect as though made at such time. All of said representations and warranties shall survive the consummation of the transaction contemplated hereby.
 
10. . Seller and Purchaser represent and warrant to each other that they have not dealt with any broker, agent or finder, licenses or otherwise, in connection with the sale and purchase of the Participation Interest. Seller and Purchaser shall indemnify and hold each other free and harmless from any and all costs, liability, causes of action or proceedings instituted by any agent, broker or finder, licensed or otherwise, not disclosed herein through, under or by reason of the conduct of Seller or Purchaser in connection with the purchase of the Participation Interest.
Brokerage Commissions
 
11. . Purchaser may assign or transfer this Agreement or any rights or benefits under this Agreement to any person or entity without the prior written approval of Seller.
Assignment
 
12. . All notices required or permitted under this agreement shall be in writing, and except as otherwise provided herein, shall be effective upon receipt via facsimile, personal delivery to Seller or Purchaser, or three (3) days after being deposited in the United States mail, registered or certified, with postage fully prepaid and addressed to the respective parties as follows:
Notices
 
 
or to such other addresses as either party shall, from time to time, specify in the manner provided herein.
 
13. . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not define or limit the provisions hereof. This Agreement shall be construed according to its ordinary meaning and shall not be strictly construed for or against any party hereto.
Interpretation
 
14. . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Oklahoma. The parties agree that proper venue and jurisdiction shall reside in state or federal district court in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma.
Governing Law
 
15. . All of the terms, covenants and conditions herein contained shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their successors and assigns. Any modification or waiver of any term of this agreement, including a modification or a waiver of this term, must be in writing signed by the party or parties against which enforcement of the modification or waiver is sought.
Binding Effect and Waiver
 
16. . This agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties pertaining to the subject matter hereof and all prior and contemporaneous agreements, representations and understandings, written or oral, are hereby superceded and merged into this Agreement. The parties hereto agree to execute such additional documents and to perform such additional acts as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purpose and intent of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
 
17. . If any party shall bring suit to enforce the terms and provisions hereof, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover from the other party all costs, expenses and reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the exercise by the prevailing party of its rights and remedies hereunder. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "prevailing party" shall mean, in the case of the
Claims of Action
claimant, one who is successful in obtaining substantially all the relief sought, and in the case of the defendant or respondent, one who is successful in denying substantially all of the relief sought by the claimant. Any award of attorneys' fees shall be set by the court and not by a jury.
 
18. . Should any term, provision, covenant or condition of this Agreement be void, invalid or inoperative, the same shall not affect any other term, provision, covenant or condition of this Agreement but the remainder thereof shall be given effect as though such void, invalid or inoperative term, provision, covenant or condition had not been contained herein. This Agreement may be executed in counterpart and each such counterpart, when taken together with all other counterparts, shall be deemed one and the same original document.
Severability
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 


