FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20041123111158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On November 18, 2004, Torchmark Corporation (Torchmark) and its subsidiary TMK Re, Ltd. (TMK Re) entered into that Credit Agreement dated as of November 18, 2004 among Torchmark Corporation as the Borrower, TMK Re, Ltd. as a Loan Party, Bank of America, N.A. as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, JP Morgan Bank, N.A., KeyBank National Association, Regions Bank and SunTrust Bank as Co-Syndication Agents and the other lenders party thereto (Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement replaces Torchmark's existing five-year Revolving Credit Agreement which was scheduled to expire in November 2006 and its 364-Day Credit Agreement which was scheduled to expire November 24, 2004. It provides for a five-year, $600 million revolving credit facility, the proceeds of which may be used for general corporate purposes of Torchmark and its subsidiaries, including repayment of maturing commercial paper indebtedness, and for the issuance of standby letters of credit for TMK Re in an amount not to exceed $175 million. The Agreement also includes a $15 million swing line arrangement. Borrowings may be made at either a LIBOR rate or the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus  of 1% or Bank of America's prime rate.
 
Torchmark and its subsidiaries from time to time have various other relationships with certain of the banks and their affiliates who participate as lenders under the Credit Agreement. Affiliates of JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. are parties to that Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of December 21, 1999 as amended and restated as of March 31, 2000, among AILIC Receivables Corporation, American Income Life Insurance Company, Preferred Receivables Funding Corporation (PREFCO), certain financial institutions (which financial institutions together with PREFCO are Purchasers) and Bank One, N.A., as agent for Purchasers, as from time to time amended, which has been previously filed as an exhibit to Torchmark's Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.01
 
Published CUSIP Number:
                    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This CREDIT AGREEMENT ("") is entered into as of November 182004, among each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, TORCHMARK CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "") and TMK RE, LTD., a Bermuda reinsurance corporation ("").
Agreement
,
Lenders
Lender
Borrower
TMK
 
The Loan Parties (as defined herein) have requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit facility, the proceeds of which will be used (a) for the general corporate purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (as defined herein), including repayment of maturing commercial paper indebtedness, and (b) for the issuance of standby letters of credit for the Loan Parties and their respective Subsidiaries, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
 
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
 
 
1.01. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Defined Terms
 
"" means the acquisition by any Person of (a) a majority of the Equity Interests of another Person, (b) all or substantially all of the assets of another Person or (c) all or substantially all of a line of business of another Person, in each case (i) whether or not involving a merger or a consolidation with such other Person and (ii) whether in one transaction or a series of related transactions.
Acquisition
 
"" means the consideration given by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries for an Acquisition, including but not limited to the sum of (without duplication) (a) the fair market value of any cash, property (including Equity Interests) or services given, plus (b) the amount of any Indebtedness assumed, incurred or guaranteed (to the extent not otherwise included) in connection with such Acquisition by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
Acquisition Consideration
 
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
 
"" means, with respect to any currency, the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on , with respect to such currency, or such other address or account with respect to such currency as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrowers and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
 
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control
Affiliate
 
with the Person specified, and in any event shall include (a) any officer, director or general partner of such Person and (b) any Person, or Affiliate of such Person that, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting Equity Interests of the Person specified.
 
"" means one or more receivables sales transactions with respect to receivables arising out of advances made by AIL to insurance agents in connection with life insurance policies underwritten by AIL.
Agent Balance Transaction
 
"" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Commitments
 
"" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
 
"" means American Income Life Insurance Company, an Indiana insurance company.
AIL
 
"" means the annual statutory financial statement of any Insurance Subsidiary required to be filed with the insurance commissioner (or similar authority) of its jurisdiction of incorporation, which statement shall be in the form required by such Insurance Subsidiary's jurisdiction of incorporation or, if no specific form is so required, in the form of financial statements recommended by the NAIC to be used for filing annual statutory financial statements and shall contain the type of information recommended by the NAIC to be disclosed therein, together with all exhibits or schedules filed therewith.
Annual Statement
 
"" means in respect of any Person, all provisions of Laws applicable to such Person, and all orders and decrees of all courts and determinations of arbitrators applicable to such Person.
Applicable Law
 
"" means with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment at such time. If the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
 
"" means the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating set forth below:
Applicable Rate
 
 
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moody's (collectively, the "") of the Borrower's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt; that if a different Debt Rating is issued by each of the foregoing rating agencies, then the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 1 being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 5 being the lowest), unless there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, in which case the Pricing Level that is one level lower than the Pricing Level of the higher Debt Rating shall apply.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
provided
 
Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the Debt Rating specified in the certificate delivered pursuant to . Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of the public announcement thereof and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
Section 4.01(a)(viii)
 
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
 
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by , and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit A
 
"" means, on any date, in respect of any capital lease of any Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP.
Attributable Indebtedness
 
"" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Auto-Renewal Letter of Credit
Section 2.03(b)(iii)
 
"" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and of the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions pursuant to .
Availability Period
Section 2.06
Section 8.02
 
"" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
 
"" means that certain letter agreement, dated as of October 7, 2004 among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and Banc of America Securities LLC.
BAS Fee Letter
 
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate." The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
 
"" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
 
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
 
"" means a Revolving Borrowing or a Swing Line Borrowing, as the context may require.
Borrowing
 
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, New York, New York or the state where the Administrative Agent's Office is located and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank Eurodollar market.
Business Day
 
"" means any expenditure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary for an asset which will be used in a year or years subsequent to the year in which the expenditure is made and which asset is properly classifiable in relevant financial statements of such Person as property, equipment or improvements, fixed assets, or a similar type of capital asset in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Expenditures
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Cash Collateralize
Section 2.03(g)(ii)
 
"" means an insurance or reinsurance Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Borrower that has, pursuant to an Insurance Contract or a Reinsurance Contract with TMK, agreed with TMK that TMK, as reinsurer, shall assume certain liabilities of such insurance or reinsurance company under an Insurance Contract.
Ceding Company
 
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
 
"" means an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
 
(a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all
 
securities that such person or group has the right to acquire (such right, an ""), whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the Equity Interests of the Borrower entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Borrower on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such Equity Interests that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right);
option right
 
(b) during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of the Borrower cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both clause (ii) and clause (iii), any individual whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that board or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the board of directors); or
 
(c) any "Change of Control" as defined in any Indebtedness of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall occur.
 
"" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
 
"" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to (a) make Revolving Loans to the Borrowers pursuant to , (b) purchase participations in L/C Obligations, and (c) purchase participations in Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
 
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit B
 
"" means, for any period of calculation, Consolidated Net Income plus (to the extent deducted in determining Consolidated Net Income) (a) the provision for taxes in respect of, or measured by, income or excess profits and (b) Consolidated Interest Expense, in each case calculated for such period for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Adjusted Net Income
 
"" means, at any date of determination, the sum of (a) Consolidated Net Worth as at such date plus (b) Consolidated Indebtedness as at such date.
Consolidated Capitalization
 
"" means the Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (excluding any obligations in respect of the Junior Subordinated Debentures) determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Indebtedness
 
"" means, for any period of calculation, interest expense, whether paid or accrued, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (excluding any interest expense in respect of the Junior Subordinated Debentures) calculated on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Interest Expense
 
"" means, for any period of calculation, the net income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Income
 
"" means, at any date of determination, the amount of consolidated common and preferred shareholders' equity of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including, without limitation, the Junior Subordinated Debentures), determined as at such date in accordance with GAAP; , , that the effect of the application of FAS 115 shall be excluded when computing Consolidated Net Worth.
Consolidated Net Worth
provided
however
 
"" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
 
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
 
"" means, collectively, JPMorgan Chase Bank, KeyBank National Association, Regions Bank, and SunTrust Bank.
Co-Syndication Agents
 
"" means each of the following: (a) a Borrowing and (b) an L/C Credit Extension.
Credit Extension
 
"" means (i) the Debenture Purchase Agreement dated as of November 2, 2001 between the Borrower and Torchmark Capital Trust I entered into in connection with the Trust Preferred Securities I, as in effect on November 2, 2001 and (ii) the Debenture Purchase Agreement dated as of December 13, 2001 between the Borrower and Torchmark Capital Trust II entered into in connection with the Trust Preferred Securities II, as in effect on December 13, 2001.
Debenture Purchase Agreements
 
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
 
"" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" means (a) when used with respect to Obligations other than Letter of Credit Fees, an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Rate, if any, applicable to Base Rate Loans (iii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan plus 2% per annum, and (b) when used with respect to Letter of Credit Fees, a rate equal to the Applicable Rate plus 2% per annum.
Default Rate
plus
plus
provided
however
 
"" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Revolving Loans, participations in L/C Obligations or participations in Swing Line Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
 
"" or "" means the sale, transfer, license, lease or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of any property by any Person, including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith.
Disposition
Dispose
 
"" means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any capital stock or other Equity Interest of the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
Dividends
 
"" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
 
"" means (a) a Lender; (b) an Affiliate of a Lender; (c) an Approved Fund; and (d) any other Person (other than a natural person) approved by (i) the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender, and (ii) unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower (each such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); that notwithstanding the foregoing, "" shall not include the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
Eligible Assignee
provided
Eligible Assignee
 
"" means any and all federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
 
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into
Environmental Liability
 
the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, all of the shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests, other than a net profits based bonus program, in) such Person, all of the warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and all of the other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are outstanding on any date of determination.
Equity Interests
 
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
 
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
 
"" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Sections 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
 
"" means, for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurodollar Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the
Eurodollar Rate
BBA LIBOR
 
London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
 
"" means a Revolving Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
 
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
 
"" means, collectively, (a) that certain Five Year $300,000,000 Credit Agreement dated as of November 30, 2001 among the Borrower, TMK, Bank One, NA, as administrative agent, and a syndicate of lenders, as amended, modified and supplemented, and (b) that certain 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of November 26, 2003, among the Borrower, Bank One, NA, as administrative agent, and a syndicate of lenders, as amended, modified and supplemented.
Existing Credit Agreements
 
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
 
"" means, collectively, (a) the BAS Fee Letter and (b) the letter agreement, dated October 7, 2004 among the Borrower, JPMorgan Chase Bank and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Fee Letters
 
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
 
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
 
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
 
"" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
 
"" means, as to any Person, (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person (or any right, contingent or otherwise, of any holder of such Indebtedness to obtain any such Lien). The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith. The term "Guarantee" as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Guaranteed Debt
Section 10.19(a)
 
"" means the provisions of and the rights and the obligations of the Borrower thereunder.
Guaranty
Section 10.19
 
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
 
"" means at the particular time in question the maximum rate of interest which, under Applicable Law, any Lender is then permitted to charge on the Obligations. If the maximum rate of interest which, under Applicable Law, any Lender is permitted to charge on the Obligations shall change after the date hereof, the Highest Lawful Rate shall be automatically increased or decreased, as the case may be, from time to time as of the effective time of each change in the Highest Lawful Rate without notice to the Borrower.
Highest Lawful Rate
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Increase Effective Date
Section 2.14(d)
 
"" means, as to any Person at a particular time, without duplication, all of the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
 
(a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money and all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments;
 
(b) all direct or contingent obligations of such Person arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments;
 
(c) net obligations of such Person under any Swap Contract;
 
(d) all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business and, in each case, not past due for more than 60 days after the date on which such trade account payable was created);
 
(e) indebtedness (excluding prepaid interest thereon) secured by a Lien on property owned or being purchased by such Person (including indebtedness arising under conditional sales or other title retention agreements), whether or not such indebtedness shall have been assumed by such Person or is limited in recourse;
 
(f) capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations;
 
(g) all obligations of such Person to purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise make any payment in respect of any Equity Interest in such Person or any other Person, valued, in the case of a redeemable preferred interest, at the greater of its voluntary or involuntary liquidation preference accrued and unpaid dividends; and
plus
 
(h) all Guarantees of such Person in respect of any of the foregoing, but excluding any (i) indebtedness of the Borrower arising under the Debenture Purchase Agreements and (ii) any obligations arising in connection with any Agent Balance Transaction.
 
For all purposes hereof, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to such Person. The amount of any net obligation under any Swap Contract on any date shall be deemed to be the Swap Termination Value thereof as of such date. The amount of any capital lease or Synthetic Lease Obligation as of any date shall be deemed to be the amount of Attributable Indebtedness in respect thereof as of such date.
 
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
 
"" means those Letters of Credit set forth on .
Initial Letters of Credit
Schedule 1.01
 
"" means an insurance contract or reinsurance contract entered into by a Ceding Company.
Insurance Contract
 
"" means any Subsidiary of the Borrower which is engaged in the life, health or accident insurance business, including TMK.
Insurance Subsidiary
 
"" means, (a) as to any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan (including a Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
 
"" means, as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Revolving Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
provided
 
(i) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
 
(ii) any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
 
(iii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
 
"" means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect acquisition or investment by such Person, whether by means of (a) the purchase or other acquisition of capital stock or other securities of another Person, (b) a loan, advance or capital contribution to, Guarantee or assumption of debt of, or purchase or other acquisition of any other debt or equity participation or interest in, another Person, including any partnership or joint venture interest in such other Person and any arrangement pursuant to which the investor Guarantees Indebtedness of such other Person, or (c) the purchase or other acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of assets of another Person that constitute a business unit.
Investment
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
IP Rights
Section 5.17
 
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
 
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
ISP
 
"" means with respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by the L/C Issuer and the Borrowers (or any Subsidiary) or in favor of the L/C Issuer and relating to any such Letter of Credit.
Issuer Documents
 
"" means Banc of America Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., in their capacity as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers.
Joint Arrangers
 
"" means, collectively, the 7-3/4% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2041 of the Borrower in an aggregate amount of $154,639,200 issued in connection with the Preferred Securities.
Junior Subordinated Debentures
 
"" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
 
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's funding of its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
L/C Advance
 
"" means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date when made or refinanced as a Revolving Borrowing.
L/C Borrowing
 
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the increase of the amount thereof.
L/C Credit Extension
 
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, or any successor issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder.
L/C Issuer
 
"" means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate amount available to be drawn under all outstanding Letters of Credit the aggregate of all Unreimbursed Amounts, including all L/C Borrowings. For purposes of computing the amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "outstanding" in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
L/C Obligations
plus
Section 1.06
 
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes the Swing Line Lender.
Lender
 
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
 
"" means any letter of credit issued hereunder. A Letter of Credit shall be a standby letter of credit.
Letter of Credit
 
"" means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the form from time to time in use by the L/C Issuer.
Letter of Credit Application
 
"" means the day that is seven days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Letter of Credit Expiration Date
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Letter of Credit Fee
Section 2.03(i)
 
"" means an amount equal to $175,000,000. The Letter of Credit Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Letter of Credit Sublimit
 
"" means any license, certificate of authority, permit or other authorization which is required to be obtained from a Governmental Authority in connection with the operation, ownership or transaction of insurance business.
License
 
"" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or preference, priority or other security interest or preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing, but excluding (a) any rights in agent balances which are sold in an Agent Balance Transaction, (b) liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person in accordance with GAAP, (c) carriers', warehousemen's,. mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like liens arising the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person, (d) pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation, other than
Lien
 
any lien imposed by ERISA, (e) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts and leases (other than Indebtedness), statutory obligations, surety bonds (other than bonds related to judgments or litigation), performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business, and (f) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do no in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the applicable Person).
 
"" means an extension of credit by a Lender to the Borrower under in form of a Revolving Loan or a Swing Line Loan.
Loan
Article II
 
"" means this Agreement, each Note, each Issuer Document, the Fee Letters, each Compliance Certificate, each Revolving Loan Notice and each Swing Line Loan Notice.
Loan Documents
 
"" means, collectively, the Borrower and TMK.
Loan Parties
 
"" means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties, liabilities (actual or contingent), condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of the Loan Parties, or any of them, or the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of any Loan Party to perform its obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a party; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against any Loan Party of any Loan Document to which it is a party.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" means (a) November 18, 2009 or (b) such earlier date as (i) the Obligations become due and payable pursuant to this Agreement (whether by acceleration, prepayment in full, scheduled reduction or otherwise) or (ii) there shall exist an Event of Default under of this Agreement.
Maturity Date
Section 8.01(f)
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
 
"" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
 
"" means the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or any successor thereto, or in lieu thereof, any other association, agency or other organization performing advisory, coordination or other like functions among insurance departments, insurance commissions and similar Governmental Authorities of the various states of the United States of America toward the promotion of uniformity in the practices of such Governmental Authorities.
NAIC
 
"" means, with respect to the sale or issuance by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to any Person (other than to the Borrower or a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary) of any Equity Interests, including any conversion of debt securities into Equity Interests, the excess of (a) the gross proceeds from such sale, issuance, or conversion over (b) all reasonable and customary underwriting commissions and legal, investment banking, brokerage and accounting
Net Proceeds
 
and other professional fees and disbursements actually incurred in connection with each such sale, issuance or conversion.
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Nonrenewal Notice Date
Section 2.03(b)(iii)
 
"" means the Revolving Loan Notes and the Swing Line Note.
Notes
 
"" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan or Letter of Credit, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
 
"" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
 
"" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
 
"" means (i) with respect to Revolving Loans and Swing Line Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Revolving Loans and Swing Line Loans, as the case may be, occurring on such date; and (ii) with respect to any L/C Obligations on any date, the Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate outstanding amount of such L/C Obligations on such date after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the L/C Obligations as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements by the Borrower of Unreimbursed Amounts.
Outstanding Amount
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
 
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
 
"" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of
Pension Plan
 
a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
 
"" means the Acquisition of any Person which has been approved and recommended by the board of directors (or the functional equivalent thereof) of the Person being acquired.
Permitted Acquisition
 
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
 
"" means any "employee benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) established by the Borrower or, with respect to any such plan that is subject to Section 412 of the Code or Title IV of ERISA, any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
 
"" means, to the extent outstanding, collectively, the Trust Preferred Securities I and the Trust Preferred Securities II.
Preferred Securities
 
"" means any interest of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in any kind or property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, or tangible or intangible.
Property
 
"" means the quarterly statutory financial statement of any Insurance Subsidiary required to be filed with the insurance commissioner (or similar authority) of its jurisdiction of incorporation, which statement shall be in the form required by such Insurance Subsidiary's jurisdiction of incorporation or, if no specific form is so required, in the form of financial statements recommended by the NAIC to be used for filing quarterly statutory financial statements and shall contain the type of information recommended by the NAIC to be disclosed therein, together with all exhibits or schedules filed therewith.
Quarterly Statement
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
 
"" means a reinsurance contract between TMK, as reinsurer, and a Ceding Company pursuant to which TMK, as reinsurer, assumes certain liabilities of the Ceding Company with respect to one or more Insurance Contracts.
Reinsurance Contract
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
 
"" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
 
"" means (a) with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Revolving Loans, a Revolving Loan Notice, (b) with respect to an L/C Credit Extension, a Letter of Credit Application and (c) with respect to a Swing Line Loan, a Swing Line Loan Notice.
Request for Credit Extension
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to
Required Lenders
 
, Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings (with the aggregate amount of each Lender's risk participation and funded participation in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans being deemed "held" by such Lender for purposes of this definition); that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Section 8.02
provided
 
"" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, or treasurer of a Loan Party. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
 
"" means (a) any Dividend, (b) any Equity Interest Repurchase, and (c) any payment or prepayment of principal, interest, premium or penalty in respect of any Indebtedness or any defeasance, redemption, purchase, repurchase or other acquisition or retirement for value, in whole or in part, of any Indebtedness.
Restricted Payment
 
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Revolving Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Revolving Borrowing
Section 2.01
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Revolving Loan
Section 2.01
 
"" means a promissory note made by the Borrowers in favor of a Lender evidencing Revolving Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of .
Revolving Note
Exhibit C
 
"" means a notice of (a) a Revolving Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Revolving Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Revolving Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit D
 
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
 
"" means, with respect to any Insurance Subsidiary, the statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the insurance commissioner (or other similar authority) as of the date hereof in the jurisdiction of incorporation of such Insurance Subsidiary for the preparation of annual statements and other financial reports by insurance companies of the same type as such Insurance Subsidiary.
SAP
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
 
"" means any Significant Subsidiary which is an Insurance Subsidiary, and shall in any event include Globe Life and Accident Insurance Company, a Delaware insurance company, Liberty National Life Insurance Company, an Alabama insurance company, United American Insurance Company, a Delaware insurance company, United Investors Life Insurance Company, a Missouri insurance company, and American Income Life Insurance Company, an Indiana insurance company.
Significant Insurance Subsidiary
 
"" of a Person means a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Rule 1-02(v) of Regulation S-X of the Securities and Exchange Commission (17 CFR Part 210). Unless otherwise expressly provided, all references herein to a "" shall mean a Significant Subsidiary of the Borrower.
Significant Subsidiary
Significant Subsidiary
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, as of any date of determination, that the fair value of the assets of such Person (at fair valuation) is, on the date of determination, greater than the total amount of liabilities (including contingent and unliquidated liabilities) of such Person as of such date, that the present fair saleable value of the assets of such Person will, as of such date, be greater than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of such Person on its debts as such debts become absolute and matured, and that, as of such date, such Person will be able to pay all liabilities of such Person as such liabilities mature and such Person does not have unreasonably small capital with which to carry on its business. In computing the amount of contingent or unliquidated liabilities at any time, such liabilities will be computed at the amount which, in light of all the facts and circumstances existing at such time, represents the amount that can reasonably be expected to become an actual or matured liability discounted to present value at rates believed to be reasonable by such Person acting in good faith.
Solvent
 
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which more than 50% of the Equity Interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than Equity Interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "" or to "" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
Subsidiary
Subsidiaries
 
"" means, with respect to the Property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, Property which (a) represents more than 10% of the consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as would be shown in the consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the beginning of the twelve-month period ending with the month in which such determination is made, or (b) is responsible for more than 10% of the consolidated net sales or of the consolidated net income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as reflected in the financial statements referred to in clause (a) above.
Substantial Portion
 
"" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with
Swap Contract
 
any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Master Agreement
 
"" means any and all obligations owed by any Loan Party to any Lender or any Affiliate in respect of a Swap Contract.
Swap Obligations
 
"" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
 
"" means the revolving credit facility made available by the Swing Line Lender pursuant to .
Swing Line
Section 2.04
 
"" means a borrowing of a Swing Line Loan pursuant to .
Swing Line Borrowing
Section 2.04
 
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as provider of Swing Line Loans, or any successor swing line lender hereunder.
Swing Line Lender
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Swing Line Loan
Section 2.04(a)
 
"" means a promissory note made by the Borrowers in favor of a Lender evidencing Revolving Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of .
Swing Line Note
Exhibit E
 
"" means a notice of a Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Swing Line Loan Notice
Section 2.04(b)
Exhibit F
 
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $15,000,000 and (b) the Aggregate Commitments. The Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Swing Line Sublimit
 
"" means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Synthetic Lease Obligation
 
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
 
"" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans and all L/C Obligations.
Total Outstandings
 
"" means the 7-3/4% Trust Preferred Securities issued by Torchmark Capital Trust I on November 2, 2001.
Trust Preferred Securities I
 
"" means the 7-3/4% Trust Preferred Securities issued by Torchmark Capital Trust II on December 13, 2001.
Trust Preferred Securities II
 
"" means, with respect to a Revolving Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan.
Type
 
"" means the excess of a Pension Plan's benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plan's assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
Unfunded Pension Liability
 
"" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(c)(i).
Unreimbursed Amount
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Utilization Fee
Section 2.09(b)
 
"" when used to determine the relationship of a Subsidiary to a Person, means a Subsidiary all of the issued and outstanding Equity Interests (other than directors' qualifying shares) of which shall at the time be owned by such Person or one or more of such Person's Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries or by such Person and one or more of such Person's Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries.
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
 
1.02. With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
Other Interpretive Provisions
 
(a) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "", "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "". Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "", "" and "" and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time,
include
includes
including
will
shall
herein
hereof
hereunder
 
and (vi) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
asset
property
 
(b) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ";" the words "" and "" each mean ";" and the word "" means "."
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
 
(c) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
 
(d) For purposes of , a breach of a financial covenant contained in shall be deemed to have occurred as of any date of determination thereof by the Administrative Agent or as of the last day of any specified measuring period, regardless of when the financial statements reflecting such breach are delivered to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders.
Section 8.01(b)
Section 7.11
 
1.03
Accounting Terms.
 
(a) . All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP or SAP, as the case may be, applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
Generally
except
 
(b) . If at any time any change in GAAP or SAP, as the case may be, would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP or SAP, as the case may be, (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP or SAP, as the case may be, prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP or SAP, as the case may be.
Changes in GAAP or SAP
provided
that
 
1.04 Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
Rounding.
 
1.05Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Central time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
Times of Day.
 
1.06Unless otherwise specified herein, the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time; provided, however, that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any Issuer Document related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
Letter of Credit Amounts.
 
 
2.01 Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Revolving Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Revolving Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment. Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Revolving Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
Revolving Loans.
Revolving Loan
provided
however
plus
plus
Section 2.01
Section 2.05
Section 2.01
 
2.02
Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Revolving Loans.
 
(a) Each Revolving Borrowing, each conversion of Revolving Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Loans, and (ii) one Business Day prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Revolving Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $2,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Except as provided in and , each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof. Each Revolving Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Revolving Borrowing, a conversion of Revolving Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the
Section 2.02(a)
Sections 2.03(c)
2.05(c)
 
Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Revolving Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Revolving Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Revolving Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Revolving Loan in a Revolving Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Revolving Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans. If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any such Revolving Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
 
(b) Following receipt of a Revolving Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Revolving Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Revolving Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Revolving Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 1:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Revolving Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower; , , that if, on the date the Revolving Loan Notice with respect to such Borrowing is given by the Borrower, there are L/C Borrowings outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing, , shall be applied to the payment in full of any such L/C Borrowings, and , shall be made available to the Borrower as provided above.
Section 4.02
Section 4.01
provided
however
first
second
 
(c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
 
(d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
 
(e) After giving effect to all Revolving Borrowings, all conversions of Revolving Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Revolving Loans as
 
the same Type, there shall not be more than six Interest Periods in effect with respect to Revolving Loans.
 
2.03
Letters of Credit.
 
(a) .
The Letter of Credit Commitment
 
(i) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (A) the L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the Lenders set forth in this , (1) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, to issue Letters of Credit denominated in Dollars for the account of any Loan Party, and to amend or renew Letters of Credit previously issued by it, in accordance with subsection (b) below, and (2) to honor drawings under the Letters of Credit; and (B) the Lenders severally agree to participate in Letters of Credit issued for the account of any Borrower and any drawings thereunder; that after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension with respect to any Letter of Credit, (x) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, (y) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Revolving Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans, shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and (z) the Outstanding Amount of the L/C Obligations shall not exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit. Each request by any Loan Party for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a representation by such Loan Party that the L/C Credit Extension so requested complies with the conditions set forth in the proviso to the preceding sentence. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Loan Parties' ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully revolving, and accordingly the Loan Parties may, during the foregoing period, obtain Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have been drawn upon and reimbursed.
Section 2.03
provided
plus
plus
 
(ii) The L/C Issuer shall not issue any Letter of Credit, if:
 
(A) subject to , the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur more than twelve months after the date of issuance or last extension, unless the Required Lenders have approved such expiry date (provided that the Initial Letters of Credit may have an expiry date not to exceed fourteen months after the date of issuance); or
Section 2.03(b)(iii)
 
(B) the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Lenders have approved such expiry date.
 
(iii) The L/C Issuer shall not be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:
 
(A) any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain the L/C Issuer from issuing such Letter of Credit, or any Law applicable to the L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over the L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or request that the L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which the L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Closing Date and which the L/C Issuer in good faith deems material to it;
 
(B) the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate one or more policies of the L/C Issuer related to letters of credit generally;
 
(C) except as otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer, such Letter of Credit is in an initial stated amount less than $100,000;
 
(D) such Letter of Credit is to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars; or
 
(E) such Letter of Credit contains any provisions for automatic reinstatement of the stated amount after any drawing thereunder.
 
(iv) The L/C Issuer shall not amend any Letter of Credit if the L/C Issuer would not be permitted at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof.
 
(v) The L/C Issuer shall be under no obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (A) the L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to such Letter of Credit.
 
(vi) The L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, and the L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (A) provided to the Administrative Agent in with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by the L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in included the L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (B) as additionally provided herein with respect to the L/C Issuer.
Article IX
Article IX
 
(b) .
Procedures for Issuance and Amendment of Letters of Credit; Auto-Renewal Letters of Credit
 
(i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case may be, upon the request of the Loan Party requesting the issuance or amendment thereof delivered to the L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of such Loan Party. Such Letter of Credit Application must be received by the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. at least two Business Days (or such later date and time as the L/C Issuer may agree in a particular instance in its sole discretion) prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be. In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer: (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; and (G) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require. In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require. Additionally, such Loan Party shall furnish to the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer Documents, as the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may require.
 
(ii) Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application from a Loan Party and, if not, the L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof. Unless the L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Lender, the Administrative Agent or any Loan Party, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in shall not then be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of such Loan Party or enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with the L/C Issuer's usual and customary business practices. Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage the amount of such Letter of Credit.
Article IV
times
 
(iii) If either Loan Party so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic renewal provisions (each, an ""); that any such Auto-Renewal Letter of Credit must permit the L/C Issuer to prevent any such renewal at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the "") in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued. Unless otherwise directed by the L/C Issuer, no Loan Party shall be required to make a specific request to the L/C Issuer for any such renewal. Once an Auto-Renewal Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the L/C Issuer to permit the renewal of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date; , , that the L/C Issuer shall not permit any such renewal if (A) the L/C Issuer has determined that it would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its renewed form under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is two Business Days before the Nonrenewal Notice Date (1) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such renewal or (2) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any Loan Party that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in (other than the delivery by the Borrower of a Revolving Loan Notice) is not then satisfied.
Auto-Renewal Letter of Credit
provided
Nonrenewal Notice Date
provided
however
Section 2.03(a)(ii)
Section 4.02
 
(iv) Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the L/C Issuer will also deliver to the Loan Party requesting the issuance or amendment thereof and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.
 
(c) .
Drawings and Reimbursements; Funding of Participations
 
(i) Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under such Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall notify the Loan Party for whose account such Letter of Credit was issued and the Administrative Agent thereof. Not later than 11:00 a.m. on the date of any payment by the L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit (each such date, an ""), such Loan Party shall reimburse the L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing. If such Loan Party fails to so reimburse the L/C Issuer by such time, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the Honor Date, the amount of the unreimbursed drawing (the ""), and the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. In such event, such Loan Party shall be deemed to have requested a Revolving Borrowing of Base Rate Loans to be disbursed on the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unreimbursed Amount, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the amount of the unutilized
Honor Date
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.02
 
portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in (other than the delivery by the Borrower of a Revolving Loan Notice). Any notice given by the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in writing; that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice.
Section 4.02
Section 2.03(c)(i)
provided
 
(ii) Each Lender shall upon any notice pursuant to make funds available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer at the Administrative Agent's Office in an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the Unreimbursed Amount not later than 1:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the provisions of , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Loan to such Loan Party in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the L/C Issuer.
Section 2.03(c)(i)
Section 2.03(c)(iii)
 
(iii) With respect to any Unreimbursed Amount that is not fully refinanced by a Revolving Borrowing of Base Rate Loans because the conditions set forth in cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, such Loan Party shall be deemed to have incurred from the L/C Issuer an L/C Borrowing in the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount that is not so refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest) and shall bear interest at the Default Rate. In such event, each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this .
Section 4.02
Section 2.03(c)(ii)
Section 2.03
 
(iv) Until each Lender funds its Revolving Loan or L/C Advance pursuant to this to reimburse the L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such amount shall be solely for the account of the L/C Issuer.
Section 2.03(c)
 
(v) Each Lender's obligation to make Revolving Loans or L/C Advances to reimburse the L/C Issuer for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit, as contemplated by this , shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the L/C Issuer, any Loan Party or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Revolving Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in (other than delivery by the Borrower of a Revolving Loan Notice). No such making of an L/C Advance shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Loan Parties to reimburse the L/C Issuer for the amount of any payment made by the L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.03(c)
provided
however
Section 2.03(c)
Section 4.02
 
(vi) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , the L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the L/C Issuer in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation. A certificate of the L/C Issuer submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (vi) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.03(c)
Section 2.03(c)(ii)
 
(d) .
Repayment of Participations
 
(i) At any time after the L/C Issuer has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender such Lender's L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with , if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of the L/C Issuer any payment in respect of the related Unreimbursed Amount or interest thereon (whether directly from a Loan Party or otherwise, including proceeds of Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative Agent will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Lender's L/C Advance was outstanding) and in Dollars in the same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.03(c)
 
(ii) If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to is required to be returned under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the L/C Issuer in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned by such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 2.03(c)(i)
Section 10.05
 
(e) . The obligation of the Loan Parties to reimburse the L/C Issuer for each drawing under each Letter of Credit and to repay each L/C Borrowing shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, including the following:
Obligations Absolute
 
(i) any lack of validity or enforceability of such Letter of Credit, this Agreement, or any other Loan Document;
 
(ii) the existence of any claim, counterclaim, setoff, defense or other right that the Borrower or any Subsidiary may have at any time against any
 
beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), the L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction;
 
(iii) any draft, demand, certificate or other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; or any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
 
(iv) any payment by the L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by the L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law; or
 
(v) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
 
The Loan Party who shall have requested a Letter of Credit or an amendment thereto shall promptly examine a copy of each Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the event of any claim of noncompliance with such Loan Party's instructions or other irregularity, such Loan Party will immediately notify the L/C Issuer. The Loan Party shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against the L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.
 
(f) .Each Lender and the Loan Parties agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall not have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document. None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer shall be liable to any Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection herewith at the request or with the approval of the Lenders or the Required Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution, effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Issuer Document. The Loan Parties hereby assume all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee with respect to its use of any Letter of Credit; , , that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude any Loan Party's pursuing such rights and
Role of L/C Issuer
provided
however
 
remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other agreement. None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer, shall be liable or responsible for any of the matters described in clauses (i) through (v) of ; , , that anything in such clauses or otherwise in this subsection (f) to the contrary notwithstanding, the Loan Parties may have a claim against the L/C Issuer, and the L/C Issuer may be liable to the Loan Parties, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or exemplary, damages suffered by the Loan Parties which the Loan Parties prove were caused by the L/C Issuer's willful misconduct or gross negligence or the L/C Issuer's willful failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the L/C Issuer may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and the L/C Issuer shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.
Section 2.03(e)
provided
however
 
(g) . (i) Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, (A) if the L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has resulted in an L/C Borrowing, or (B) if, as of the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, any L/C Obligation for any reason remains outstanding, the Loan Parties shall, in each case, immediately Cash Collateralize the then Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations.
Cash Collateral
 
(ii) and set forth certain additional requirements to deliver Cash Collateral hereunder. For purposes of this , and , "" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuer and the Lenders, as collateral for the L/C Obligations, cash or deposit account balances pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer (which documents are hereby consented to by the Lenders). Derivatives of such term have corresponding meanings. The Loan Parties hereby grant to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuer and the Lenders, a security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all balances therein and all proceeds of the foregoing. Cash Collateral shall be maintained in blocked, non-interest bearing deposit accounts at Bank of America.
Sections 2.05
8.02(c)
Section 2.03
Section 2.05
Section 8.02(c)
Cash Collateralize
 
(h) . Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the L/C Issuer and the Loan Parties when a Letter of Credit is issued, (i) the rules of the ISP shall apply to each standby Letter of Credit, and (ii) the rules of the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits, as most recently published by the International Chamber of Commerce at the time of issuance shall apply to each commercial Letter of Credit.
Applicability of ISP and UCP
 
(i) . Each Loan Party shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, in Dollars, a Letter of Credit fee (the "") for each Letter of Credit issued for such Loan Party's account equal to Applicable Rate (calculated per day) the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . Letter of Credit Fees shall be (i) computed on a quarterly basis in arrears and (ii) due and payable on the first Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. If there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, all Letter of Credit Fees shall accrue at the Default Rate.
Letter of Credit Fees
Letter of Credit Fee
times
Section 1.06
 
(j) . Each Loan Party shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer, for its own account, a fronting fee (i) with respect to each Letter of Credit issued for such Loan Party's account, at the rate specified in the BAS Fee Letter, computed with respect to each such Letter of Credit, on the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit on a quarterly basis in arrears, and due and payable on the first Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand, and (ii) with respect to any amendment of a Letter of Credit increasing the amount of such Letter of Credit, at a rate separately agreed between the Loan Party requesting such amendment and the L/C Issuer, computed on the amount of such increase, and payable upon the effectiveness of such amendment. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . In addition, the Loan Parties shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer, for its own account, the customary issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees, and other standard costs and charges, of the L/C Issuer relating to letters of credit as from time to time in effect. Such customary fees and standard costs and charges are due and payable on demand and are nonrefundable.
Fronting Fee and Documentary and Processing Charges Payable to L/C Issuer
Section 1.06
 
(k) . In the event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Issuer Document, the terms hereof shall control.
Conflict with Issuer Documents
 
2.04
Swing Line Loans.
 
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lender agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this , to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the Swing Line
The Swing Line
Section 2.04
Swing Line Loan
 
Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of Revolving Loans and L/C Obligations of the Lender acting as Swing Line Lender, may exceed the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Swing Line Loan, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Revolving Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and , , that the Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Swing Line Loan to refinance any outstanding Swing Line Loan. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Each Swing Line Loan shall be a Base Rate Loan. Immediately upon the making of a Swing Line Loan, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage the amount of such Swing Line Loan.
provided
however
plus
plus
provided
further
Section 2.04
Section 2.05
Section 2.04
times
 
(b) . Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. on the requested borrowing date, and shall specify (i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of $250,000, and (ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day. Each such telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written Swing Line Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Promptly after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of any telephonic Swing Line Loan Notice, the Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received such Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the Swing Line Lender will notify the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof. Unless the Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing) from the Administrative Agent (including at the request of any Lender) prior to 2:00 p.m. on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the Swing Line Lender not to make such Swing Line Loan as a result of the limitations set forth in the proviso to the first sentence of , or (B) that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swing Line Lender will, not later than 3:00 p.m. on the borrowing date specified in such Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its Swing Line Loan available to the Borrower at its office by crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of the Swing Line Lender in immediately available funds.
Borrowing Procedures
Section 2.04(a)
Article IV
 
(c) .
Refinancing of Swing Line Loans
 
(i) The Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may request, on behalf of the Borrower (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Lender
 
make a Base Rate Loan in an amount equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of Swing Line Loans then outstanding. Such request shall be made in writing (which written request shall be deemed to be a Revolving Loan Notice for purposes hereof) and in accordance with the requirements of , without regard to the minimum and multiples specified therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in . The Swing Line Lender shall furnish the Borrower with a copy of the applicable Revolving Loan Notice promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent. Each Lender shall make an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the amount specified in such Revolving Loan Notice available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds for the account of the Swing Line Lender at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 1:00 p.m. on the day specified in such Revolving Loan Notice, whereupon, subject to , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swing Line Lender.
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.04(c)(ii)
 
(ii) If for any reason any Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with , the request for Base Rate Loans submitted by the Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swing Line Lender that each of the Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan and each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.
Section 2.04(c)(i)
Section 2.04(c)(i)
 
(iii) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , the Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Swing Line Lender in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation. A certificate of the Swing Line Lender submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (iii) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.04(c)
Section 2.04(c)(i)
 
(iv) Each Lender's obligation to make Revolving Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swing Line Loans pursuant to this shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the Swing Line Lender, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Revolving Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set
Section 2.04(c)
provided
however
Section 2.04(c)
 
forth in . No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of any Borrower to repay Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 4.02
 
(d) .
Repayment of Participations
 
(i) At any time after any Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Swing Line Loan, if the Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of such Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage of such payment (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Lender's risk participation was funded) in the same funds as those received by the Swing Line Lender.
 
(ii) If any payment received by the Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or interest on any Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Swing Line Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate. The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Swing Line Lender. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 10.05
 
(e) . The Swing Line Lender shall be responsible for invoicing the Borrower for interest on the Swing Line Loans. Until each Lender funds its Base Rate Loan or risk participation pursuant to this to refinance such Lender's Applicable Percentage of any Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Applicable Percentage shall be solely for the account of the Swing Line Lender.
Interest for Account of Swing Line Lender
Section 2.04
 
(f) . The Borrower shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Swing Line Loans directly to the Swing Line Lender.
Payments Directly to Swing Line Lender
 
2.05
Prepayments.
 
(a) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Revolving Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $2,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then
provided
 
outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Revolving Loans to be prepaid. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Revolving Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
Section 3.05
 
(b) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date of the prepayment, and (ii) any such prepayment shall be in a minimum principal amount of $250,000 or in such lesser principal amount as may be outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.
provided
 
(c) If for any reason the Total Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect, the Borrower shall immediately prepay Loans and/or Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations in an aggregate amount equal to such excess; , , that the Borrower shall not be required to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations pursuant to this unless after the prepayment in full of the Loans the Total Outstandings exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect.
provided
however
Section 2.05(c)
 
2.06The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. five Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (iii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (iv) if, after giving effect to any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments, the Letter of Credit Sublimit or the Swing Line Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Commitments, such Sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage. All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
Termination or Reduction of Commitments.
provided
 
2.07
Repayment of Loans.
 
(a) The Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Revolving Loans outstanding on such date.
 
(b) The Borrower shall repay each Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the date seven days after such Loan is made and (ii) the Maturity Date.
 
2.08
Interest.
 
(a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the lesser of (x) the Highest Lawful Rate and (y) the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate; (ii) each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the lesser of (x) the Highest Lawful Rate and (y) the Base Rate the Applicable Rate; and (iii) each Swing Line Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the lesser of (x) the Highest Lawful Rate and (y) the Base Rate the Applicable Rate.
plus
plus
plus
 
(b) (i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the lesser of (x) the Default Rate and (y) the Highest Lawful Rate, to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law.
 
(ii) If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the lesser of (x) the Default Rate and (y) the Highest Lawful Rate, to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law.
 
(iii) Upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the lesser of (x) the Default Rate and (y) the Highest Lawful Rate, to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law.
 
(iv) Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
 
(c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
 
2.09 In addition to certain fees described in subsections (i) and (j) of :
Fees.
Section 2.03
 
(a) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a facility fee (") equal to the Applicable Rate (calculated per day) the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments (or, if the Aggregate Commitments have terminated, on the Outstanding Amount of all Revolving Loans, Swing Line Loans and L/C Obligations), regardless of usage. The Facility Fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as any Revolving Loans, Swing Line Loans or L/C Obligations remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the Maturity Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The Facility Fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
Facility Fee
"Facility Fee
times
Article IV
 
(b) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a utilization fee (") equal to the Applicable Rate (calculated per day) the Total Outstandings on each day that the Total Outstandings equal or exceed 50% of the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments. The Utilization Fee shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the Maturity Date. The Utilization Fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate for each period during which such Applicable Rate was in effect. The Utilization Fee shall accrue at all times, including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met.
Utilization Fee
"Utilization Fee
times
Article IV
 
(c) .
Other Fees
 
(i) The Borrower shall pay to the Arranger and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letter. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
 
(ii) The Borrower shall pay to the Lenders such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
 
2.10All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by Bank of America's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days
Computation of Interest and Fees.
 
elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
provided
Section 2.12(a)
 
2.11
Evidence of Debt.
 
(a) The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Loan Parties and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Loan Parties hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
 
(b) In addition to the accounts and records referred to in subsection (a), each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.
 
2.12
Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback.
 
(a) . All payments to be made by the Loan Parties shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. All payments by the Loan Parties hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of payment with respect to principal and interest on Loans in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 2:00 p.m., shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment
General
 
to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
 
(b) (i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Revolving Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Revolving Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Revolving Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Revolving Loan included in such Revolving Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
 
(ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from any Loan Party prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer hereunder that the Loan Parties will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Loan Parties have made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Loan Parties have not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Payments by Loan Parties Presumptions by Administrative Agent
 
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or a Loan Party with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
 
(c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrowers by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
 
(d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Revolving Loans, to fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Revolving Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Revolving Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
 
(e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
 
2.13If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Revolving Loans made by it, or the participations in L/C Obligations or in Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Revolving Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans and subparticipations in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
Sharing of Payments by Lenders.
pro
rata
provided
 
(i) if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
 
(ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by the Loan Parties pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Revolving Loans or subparticipations in L/C Obligations or Swing Line Loans to
 
any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
 
Each Loan Party consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Loan Party rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Loan Party in the amount of such participation.
 
2.14
Increase in Commitments.
 
(a) . Provided there exists no Default, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders), the Borrower may from time to time, request an increase in the Aggregate Commitments by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $100,000,000; that (i) any such request for an increase shall be in a minimum amount of $25,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower may make a maximum of three such requests. At the time of sending such notice, the Borrower (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Lender is requested to respond (which shall in no event be less than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of such notice to the Lenders).
Request for Increase
provided
 
(b) . Each Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within such time period whether or not it agrees to increase its Commitment and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or less than its Applicable Percentage of such requested increase. Any Lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Commitment.
Lender Elections to Increase
 
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and each Lender of the Lenders' responses to each request made hereunder. To achieve the full amount of a requested increase and subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer (which approvals shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Borrower may also invite additional Eligible Assignees to become Lenders pursuant to a joinder agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
Notification by Administrative Agent; Additional Lenders
 
(d) . If the Aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall determine the effective date (the "") and the final allocation of such increase. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the final allocation of such increase and the Increase Effective Date.
Effective Date and Allocations
Increase Effective Date
 
(e) . As a condition precedent to such increase, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of each Loan Party dated as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of such Loan Party (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by such Loan Party approving or consenting to such increase, and (ii) in the case of the Borrower, certifying that, before and after giving effect to such increase, (A) the representations and warranties contained in and the other Loan
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
Article V
 
Documents are true and correct on and as of the Increase Effective Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of , and (B) no Default exists. The Borrower shall prepay any Revolving Loans outstanding on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Revolving Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages arising from any nonratable increase in the Commitments under this .
Section 2.14
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
Section 3.05
Section 2.14
 
(f) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Sections 2.13
10.01
 
 
3.01
Taxes.
 
(a) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Loan Parties hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, provided that if any Loan Party shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Lender or L/C Issuer, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Loan Party shall make such deductions and (iii) such Loan Party shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payments Free of Taxes
 
(b) . Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, the Loan Parties shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Loan Parties
 
(c) . The Loan Parties shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the L/C Issuer, within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) imposed upon and paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Loan Parties by a Lender or the L/C Issuer (with a copy to the
Indemnification by the Borrowers
 
Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
 
(d) . As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by any Loan Party to a Governmental Authority, such Loan Party shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
 
(e) . Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which any Loan Party is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to such Loan Party (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by such Loan Party or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by any Loan Party or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by such Loan Party or the Administrative Agent as will enable such Loan Party or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements.
Status of Lenders
 
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that any Loan Party is resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to such Loan Party and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of such Loan Party or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
 
(i) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
 
(ii) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
 
(iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of any Loan Party within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
 
(iv) any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly
 
completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
 
(f) . If the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by any Loan Party or with respect to which any Loan Party has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall promptly pay to such Loan Party an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by such Loan Party under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that such Loan Party, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Loan Party (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer in the event the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to any Loan Party or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
provided
 
3.02If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent (which notice shall state in reasonable detail the reasons therefor together with a statement that other borrowers with similar Eurodollar Rate Loans are being treated similarly), any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
Illegality.
 
3.03If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank Eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (c) the
Inability to Determine Rates.
 
Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Revolving Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
 
3.04
Increased Costs; Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Loans.
 
(a) . If any Change in Law shall
Increased Costs Generally
 
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement contemplated by or the L/C Issuer;
Section 3.04(e))
 
(ii) subject any Lender or the L/C Issuer to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, any participation in a Letter of Credit or any Eurodollar Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender or the L/C Issuer in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender or the L/C Issuer); or
Section 3.01
 
(iii) impose on any Lender or the L/C Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
 
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender or the L/C Issuer of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or the L/C Issuer hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender or the L/C Issuer, the Loan Parties will pay to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
 
(b) . If any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or the L/C Issuer or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding
Capital Requirements
 
company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by the L/C Issuer, to a level below that which such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's policies and the policies of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Loan Parties will pay to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
 
(c) . A certificate of a Lender or the L/C Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Loan Parties shall (i) include a written explanation of such additional cost or reduction and a statement that such costs affect other borrowers of such Lender or the L/C Issuer who are similarly situated and (ii) be conclusive absent manifest error. The Loan Parties shall pay such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
 
(d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or the L/C Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's right to demand such compensation, that the Loan Parties shall not be required to compensate a Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than nine months prior to the date that such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, notifies the Loan Parties of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the nine-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
 
(e) . The Borrower shall pay to each Lender, as long as such Lender shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as "Eurocurrency liabilities"), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Rate Loan equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), which shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan, the Borrower shall have received at least 10 days' prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such additional interest from such Lender. If a Lender fails to give notice 10 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional interest shall be due and payable 10 days from receipt of such notice.
Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Loans
provided
 
3.05 Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
Compensation for Losses.
 
(a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
 
(b) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrowers; or
 
(c) any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrowers pursuant to ;
Section 10.13
 
including any loss of anticipated profits, any foreign exchange losses, and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained or from the performance of any foreign exchange contract. The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
 
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrowers to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank Eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
 
3.06
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.
 
(a) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or any Loan Party is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Loan Parties hereby agree to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
 
(b) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if any Loan Party is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
 
3.07All of the Loan Parties' obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
Survival.
Article III
 
 
4.01 The obligation of the L/C Issuer and each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
Conditions of Initial Credit Extension.
 
(a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the signing Loan Party, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
 
(i) executed counterparts of this Agreement, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Loan Parties;
 
(ii) a Revolving Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Revolving Note;
 
(iii) the Swing Line Note executed by the Borrower in favor of the Swing Line Lender;
 
(iv) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of each Loan Party as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party;
 
(v) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that each Loan Party is duly organized or formed, and that each Loan Party is validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
 
(vi) (A) a favorable opinion of Larry M. Hutchinson, general counsel to the Borrower, and (B) a favorable opinion of Appleby, Spurling & Kempe, special Bermuda counsel to TMK, each addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, as to such matters concerning the Loan Parties and the Loan Documents as the Required Lenders may reasonably request;
 
(vii) a certificate of a Responsible Officer or Secretary of each Loan Party either (A) attaching copies of all consents, licenses and approvals required
 
in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by such Loan Party and the validity against such Loan Party of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect, or (B) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so required;
 
(viii) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying (A) that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied, (B) that there has been no event or circumstance since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect, and (C) the current Debt Ratings.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
 
(ix) evidence that the Existing Credit Agreements have been or concurrently with the Closing Date is being terminated and all Liens securing obligations under the Existing Credit Agreements have been or concurrently with the Closing Date are being released;
 
(x) any required regulatory approvals from any Governmental Authority with respect to the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents, including all hearing orders issued by any regulatory authority;
 
(xi) a duly completed Compliance Certificate as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Borrower most recently ended prior to the Closing Date, signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower; and
 
(xii) such other assurances certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent, the Swing Line Lender, the L/C Issuer, or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
 
(b) Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
 
(c) Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall have paid all fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date.
 
(d) The Closing Date shall have occurred on or before November 24, 2004.
 
(e) There shall not have occurred a material adverse change (i) in the business, assets, properties, liabilities (actual or contingent), operations, conditions (financial or otherwise) or prospects of either of the Loan Parties, or the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, since December 31, 2003 or (ii) in the facts and information regarding such entities as represented by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any representatives of any of them, to date.
 
(f) The absence of any action, suit, investigation or proceeding pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, threatened, in any court or before any arbitrator or governmental authority that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.04
Section 4.01
 
4.02 The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than a Revolving Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Revolving Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
Conditions to all Credit Extensions.
 
(a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower and each other Loan Party contained in (other than the representation in solely with respect to a Borrowing) or any other Loan Document, shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of .
Article V
Section 5.05(c)
Section 4.02
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
 
(b) No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or from the application of the proceeds thereof.
 
(c) The Administrative Agent and, if applicable, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
 
Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Revolving Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Revolving Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) submitted by any Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
 
 
The Borrowers represent and warrant to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
 
5.01Each Loan Party and each of the Significant Subsidiaries (a) is duly organized or formed, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority and all requisite governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to (i) own its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, (c) is duly qualified and is licensed and in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license, and (d) is in compliance with all Laws; except in each case referred to in clause (b)(i), (c) or (d), to
Existence, Qualification and Power; Compliance with Laws.
 
the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
5.02The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of each Loan Document to which such Person is party, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (a) contravene the terms of any of such Person's Organization Documents; (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, or require any payment to be made under (i) any Contractual Obligation to which such Person is a party or affecting such Person or the properties of such Person or any of its Subsidiaries or (ii) any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which such Person or its property is subject; or (c) violate any Law. Each Loan Party is in compliance with all Contractual Obligations referred to in clause (b)(i), except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Authorization; No Contravention.
 
5.03 No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, any Loan Party of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Governmental Authorization; Other Consents.
 
5.04This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document, when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party that is party thereto. This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party, enforceable against each Loan Party that is party thereto in accordance with its terms.
Binding Effect.
 
5.05
Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect.
 
(a) The Audited Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
 
(b) The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries dated September 30, 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, and (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments. sets forth all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or
Schedule 5.05
 
contingent, of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries not disclosed on the financial statements referred to in this subsection (b), including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
 
(c) Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
5.06 Except as set forth on , there are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened or contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that (a) purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, or (b) either individually or in the aggregate, if determined adversely, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation.
Schedule 5.06
 
5.07Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is in default under or with respect to any Contractual Obligation that could, either individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
No Default.
 
5.08Each of the Borrower and each Subsidiary has good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of its business, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is subject to no Liens, other than Liens permitted by .
Ownership of Property; Liens.
Section 7.01
 
5.09 The Borrower and its Subsidiaries are in compliance with all Environmental Laws, except where the failure to be in such compliance could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There are no claims alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law on the respective businesses, operations and properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries which could, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Environmental Compliance.
 
5.10The properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Borrower, in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary operates, including self-insurance for certain portions of workers compensation to the extent customary.
Insurance.
 
5.11The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have filed all Federal, state and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all Federal, state and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being
Taxes.
 
contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP. There is no proposed tax assessment against the Borrower or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither any Loan Party nor any Subsidiary thereof is party to any tax sharing agreement with any Person other than another Loan Party or a Subsidiary thereof.
 
5.12
ERISA Compliance.
 
(a) Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state Laws. Each Plan that is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the IRS with respect thereto and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, nothing has occurred which would prevent, or cause the loss of, such qualification. The Borrower and each ERISA Affiliate have made all required contributions to each Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, and no application for a funding waiver or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan.
 
(b) There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that could be reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(c) (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur; (ii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability; (iii) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (iv) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such liability) under Sections 4201 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan; and (v) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Sections 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
 
5.13 As of the Closing Date, the Borrower has no Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in Part (a) of , and all of the outstanding Equity Interests in such Subsidiaries have been validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by a Loan Party in the amounts specified on Part (a) of free and clear of all Liens. The Borrower has no equity investments in any other corporation or entity in excess of 5% of the Equity Interests of such corporation or entity other than those specifically disclosed in Part (b) of . All of the outstanding Equity Interests in the Borrower have been validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable. As of the Closing Date, TMK does not have any Subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries; Equity Interests.
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
 
5.14
Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act; Public Utility Holding Company Act.
 
(a) No Loan Party is engaged and will not engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock. Following the application of the proceeds of each Borrowing or drawing under each Letter of Credit, not more than 25% of the value of the assets (either of the Borrower only or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis) subject to the provisions of or or subject to any restriction contained in any agreement or instrument between any Loan Party and any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender relating to Indebtedness and within the scope of will be margin stock.
Section 7.01
Section 7.05
Section 8.01(e)
 
(b) None of the Borrower, any Person Controlling the Borrower, or any Subsidiary (i) is a "holding company," or a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company," or an "affiliate" of a "holding company" or of a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company," within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, or (ii) is or is required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
 
5.15 The Borrower has disclosed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished (whether in writing or orally) by or on behalf of any Loan Party to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder or under any other Loan Document (in each case, as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
Disclosure.
provided
 
5.16 Each of the Borrower and each Subsidiary is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws.
 
5.17The Borrower and its Subsidiaries own, or possess the right to use, all of the trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patents, patent rights, franchises, licenses and other intellectual property rights (collectively, "") that are reasonably necessary for the operation of their respective businesses, without conflict with the rights of any other Person. To the best knowledge of the Borrower, no slogan or other
Intellectual Property; Licenses, Etc.
IP Rights
 
advertising device, product, process, method, substance, part or other material now employed, or now contemplated to be employed, by the Borrower or any Subsidiary infringes upon any rights held by any other Person. No claim or litigation regarding any of the foregoing is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened, which, either individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
5.18 Each of the Borrower and TMK is, and the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are on a consolidated basis, Solvent.
Solvent.
 
5.19 (as said shall be revised or supplemented from time to time to reflect withdrawals or changes in jurisdictions permitted by or additional jurisdictions set forth in the Annual Statements furnished pursuant to lists all of the jurisdictions in which any Significant Insurance Subsidiary holds active Licenses and is authorized to transact insurance business. No such License is the subject of a proceeding for suspension or revocation, there is no sustainable basis for such suspension or revocation, and to each Loan Party's best knowledge, no such suspension or revocation has been threatened by any Governmental Authority. also indicates the type or types of insurance in which each such Insurance Subsidiary is permitted to engage with respect to each License therein listed. None of the Insurance Subsidiaries transacts any insurance business, directly or indirectly, in any state other than those enumerated in .
Insurance Licenses.
Schedule 5.19
Schedule 5.19
Section 6.13
Section 6.02(f))
Schedule 5.19
Schedule 5.19
 
5.20TMK has no Indebtedness outstanding on the Closing Date other than the Obligations.
Indebtedness.
 
5.21 TMK owns assets that qualify as admitted assets under Applicable Law in an amount at least equal to the sum of all such reserves and liability amounts and its minimum statutory capital and surplus as required by the insurance Laws of its jurisdiction of domicile.
Reserves.
 
 
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, the Borrower shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in, and ) cause each Subsidiary to:
Sections 6.01
6.02
6.03
 
6.01Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
Financial Statements.
 
(a) as soon as available, but in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated and consolidating balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated and consolidating statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, such consolidated statements to be audited and accompanied by a report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant of nationally recognized standing reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders, which report and opinion shall be
 
prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit; and
 
(b) as soon as available, but in any event within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated and consolidating balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated and consolidating statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, such consolidated statements to be certified by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower as fairly presenting the financial condition, results of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
 
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Borrower shall not be separately required to furnish such information under clause (a) or (b) above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Borrower to furnish the information and materials described in clauses (a) and (b) above at the times specified therein.
Section 6.02(c)
 
6.02Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
Certificates; Other Information.
 
(a) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and , a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
 
(b) promptly after any request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, copies of any detailed audit reports, substantive management letters or substantive recommendations submitted to the board of directors (or the audit committee of the board of directors) of the Borrower by independent accountants in connection with the accounts or books of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any audit of any of them;
 
(c) promptly after the same are publicly available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Borrower, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which the Borrower may file or be required to file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto;
 
(d) promptly after the furnishing thereof, copies of any statement or report furnished to any holder of debt securities of any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof pursuant to the terms of any indenture, loan or credit or similar agreement and not otherwise required to be furnished to the Lenders pursuant to or any other clause of this ;
Section 6.01
Section 6.02
 
(e) promptly, and in any event within five Business Days after receipt thereof by any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof, copies of each notice or other correspondence received from the SEC (or any other Governmental Authority) concerning any material investigation by such agency regarding financial or other operational results of any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof;
 
(f) within (i) 90 days after the close of each fiscal year of each Significant Insurance Subsidiary, copies of the Annual Statement of each of the Significant Insurance Subsidiaries, as certified by the president, secretary and treasurer of and the actuary for each such Significant Insurance Subsidiary and prepared on the NAIC annual statement blanks (or such other form as shall be required by the jurisdiction of incorporation of each such Significant Insurance Subsidiary), all such statements to be prepared in accordance with SAP consistently applied throughout the periods reflected therein and (ii) 180 days after the close of each fiscal year of each Significant Insurance Subsidiary, copies of the certification by independent certified public accountants reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent if so required by any Governmental Authority with respect to such Annual Statements;
 
(g) within 60 days after the close of each fiscal quarter of each Significant Insurance Subsidiary, copies of the Quarterly Statement of each of the Significant Insurance Subsidiaries, as certified by the president, secretary and treasurer of and the actuary for each such Significant Insurance Subsidiary and prepared on the NAIC quarterly statement blanks (or such other form as shall be required by the jurisdiction of incorporation of each such Insurance Subsidiary), all such statements to be prepared in accordance with SAP consistently applied throughout the periods reflected therein;
 
(h) promptly upon any Loan Party's receipt thereof, copies of reports or valuations prepared by any Governmental Authority or actuary in respect of any action or event which has resulted in the reduction by 5% or more in the capital and surplus of any Insurance Subsidiary;
 
(i) promptly and in any event within ten (10) days after learning thereof, notification of any decrease after the date hereof in the rating given by A.M. Best & Co. in respect of any Insurance Subsidiary; and
 
(j) promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
 
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: (i) the
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(c)
Schedule 10.02
provided
 
Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender (by telecopier or electronic mail) of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (, soft copies) of such documents. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance Certificates required by to the Administrative Agent. Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
i.e.
Section 6.02(a)
 
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Joint Arrangers will make available to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders (i.e., Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrowers or its securities) (each, a ""). The Borrower hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arranger, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as either publicly available information or not material information (although it may be sensitive and proprietary) with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws; (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor;" and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor."
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
 
6.03Promptly notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
Notices.
 
(a) of the occurrence of any Default;
 
(b) of any matter that, individually or collectively, has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority, including any notice from any Governmental Authority of the expiration without renewal, revocation or suspension of, or the institution of any proceedings to revoke or suspend, any License now or hereafter held by any Insurance Subsidiary which is required to conduct insurance business in compliance with all Applicable Laws, (iii) any judicial or administrative order limiting or controlling the insurance business of any Insurance Subsidiary (and not the insurance industry generally), (iv) any notice from any Governmental Authority of the
 
institution of any disciplinary proceedings against or in respect of any Insurance Subsidiary, or the issuance of any order, the taking of any action or any request for an extraordinary audit for cause by any Governmental Authority or (v) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
 
(c) of the occurrence of any ERISA Event;
 
(d) of any material change in accounting policies and practices by the Borrower or any Subsidiary; and
 
(e) of any announcement by Moody's or S&P of any change or possible change in a Debt Rating;
 
Each notice pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice pursuant to shall describe with particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
Section 6.03(a)
 
6.04Pay and discharge as the same shall become due and payable, all its obligations and liabilities, including (a) all tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary; (b) all lawful claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property; and (c) all Indebtedness, as and when due and payable, but subject to any subordination provisions contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness.
Payment of Obligations.
 
6.05(a) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction permitted by or ; (b) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Preservation of Existence, Etc.
Section 7.04
7.05
 
6.06(a) Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted; (b) make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) use the standard of care typical in the industry in the operation and maintenance of its facilities.
Maintenance of Properties.
 
6.07 Maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Borrower, insurance with respect to its Property and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in
Maintenance of Insurance.
 
the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons.
 
6.08Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws.
 
6.09(a) Maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP or SAP, as the case may be, consistently applied shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be; and (b) maintain such books of record and account in material conformity with all applicable requirements of any Governmental Authority having regulatory jurisdiction over the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be.
Books and Records.
 
6.10 Permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers, and independent public accountants, all at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably desired, upon reasonable advance notice to the Borrower; , , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Borrower at any time during normal business hours and without advance notice.
Inspection Rights.
provided
however
 
6.11 Use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions (a) to repay all obligations in respect of the Existing Credit Agreements, (b) for general corporate purposes, including, without limitation, the repayment of commercial paper Indebtedness and the issuance of letters of credit for the benefit of ceding insurance companies which are Subsidiaries of the Borrower, not in contravention of any Law or of any Loan Document and (c) to make Permitted Acquisitions
Use of Proceeds.
.
 
6.12At any time or from time to time upon reasonable request by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall or shall cause any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries to execute and deliver such further documents and do such other acts and things as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request in order to effect fully the purposes of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and to provide for payment of the Obligations in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
Further Assurances.
 
6.13Cause each Significant Insurance Subsidiary to (a) carry on or otherwise be associated with the business of a licensed insurance carrier and (b) do all things necessary to renew, extend and continue in effect all Licenses which may at any time and from time to time be necessary for such Significant Insurance Subsidiary to operate its insurance business in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations; , , that any such Significant Insurance Subsidiary may withdraw from one or more states as an
Conduct of Insurance Business.
provided
however
 
admitted insurer or change the state of its domicile, if such withdrawal or change is in the best interests of the Borrower and such Significant Insurance Subsidiary and could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. TMK will (a) only provide reinsurance to Ceding Companies, (b) only engage in the insurance business in which it is engaged or licensed as of the Closing Date, (c) do all things necessary to remain duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing in its jurisdiction of formation, and (d) do all things necessary to renew, extend and continue in effect all Licenses which may at any time and from time to time be necessary for it to operate its insurance business in compliance with all Applicable Laws. TMK will not change its jurisdiction of domicile without the prior written consent of the Required Lenders. The Borrower will cause TMK to be and remain a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary and to be at all times Solvent.
 
 
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding:
 
7.01The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than (a) Liens pursuant to any Loan Document and (b) other Liens securing Indebtedness not to exceed $100,000,000 in aggregate principal amount.
Liens.
 
7.02The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, make any Acquisitions, except Permitted Acquisitions.
Acquisitions.
 
7.03 TMK will not create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Guarantees, except:
Guarantees.
 
(a) Guarantees in respect of Insurance Contracts and Reinsurance Contracts issued in the ordinary course of business;
 
(b) Guarantees in respect of the extension of guaranties in the ordinary course of business to insureds of the obligations of insurers under Insurance Contracts and Reinsurance Contracts; and
 
(c) Guarantees in respect of the endorsement of instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of business.
 
7.04 The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, merge, dissolve, liquidate, or consolidate with or into another Person, except that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom:
Fundamental Changes.
 
(a) Any Subsidiary may merge with (i) the Borrower, that the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving Person, or (ii) any one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries; and
provided
 
(b) The Borrower or any Subsidiary may merge or consolidate with or into any other Person, that the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall be the continuing or the surviving Person.
provided
 
Notwithstanding anything in this to the contrary, TMK shall not merge or consolidate with or into any other Person.
Section 7.04
 
7.05The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, make any Disposition or enter into any agreement to make any Disposition of all or a Substantial Portion of its Property (excluding Investments sold in the ordinary course of business) in any calendar year, and provided that all such Dispositions are for fair market value.
Dispositions.
 
7.06The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, sell or transfer a Substantial Portion of its Property in order to concurrently or subsequently lease as lessee such or similar Property.
Sale and Leaseback.
 
7.07The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the Closing Date or any business substantially related or incidental thereto.
Change in Nature of Business.
 
7.08The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any transaction of any kind (including, without limitation, the purchase or sale of any Property or service) with, or make any payment or transfer to, any Affiliate (other than a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Borrower), except (a) any such transactions, payments or transfer with or to such Affiliates as are made in the ordinary course of business, and upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by the Borrower or such Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate and (b) any such other transactions, payments or transfers with or to such Affiliates as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Transactions with Affiliates.
 
7.09 The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiaries to, subject to limitations imposed by Law, enter into any Contractual Obligation (other than this Agreement or any other Loan Document) that (a) limits the ability (i) of any Subsidiary to make Restricted Payments to the Borrower or to otherwise transfer property to the Borrower, (ii) of any Subsidiary to Guarantee the Indebtedness of the Borrower or (iii) of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Liens on property of such Person; or (b) requires the grant of a Lien to secure an obligation of such Person if a Lien is granted to secure another obligation of such Person.
Burdensome Agreements.
 
7.10Use the proceeds of any Credit Extension, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the FRB) or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose.
Use of Proceeds.
 
7.11
Financial Covenants.
 
(a) . The Borrower will maintain at all times Consolidated Net Worth equal to not less than the sum of (i) $2,296,850,000 (ii) 25% of the Borrower's Consolidated Net Income, if positive, for each fiscal quarter ending after June 30, 2004, (iii) 100% of the Net Proceeds received by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries from the issuance and sale of Equity Interests of the Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than the issuance to the Borrower or a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary), including any conversion of debt securities of the Borrower or any Subsidiary into Equity Interests after June 30, 2004.
Consolidated Net Worth
plus
plus
 
(b) . The Borrower will maintain at all times a ratio of Consolidated Indebtedness to Consolidated Capitalization of not greater than 0.40 to 1.0.
Ratio of Consolidated Indebtedness to Consolidated Capitalization
 
(c) . The Borrower will maintain, as at the last day of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of (i) Consolidated Adjusted Net Income to (ii) Consolidated Interest Expense, in each case calculated for the four fiscal quarters then ending, of not less than 3.00 to 1.0.
Ratio of Consolidated Adjusted Net Income to Consolidated Interest Expense
 
7.12The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit Torchmark Capital Trust I or Torchmark Capital Trust II to, declare or pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire, any Preferred Securities or any portion thereof if at such time, or after giving effect thereto, a Default or Event of Default exists or would exist.
Preferred Securities.
 
 
8.01Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
Events of Default.
 
(a) . Any Loan Party fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, any amount of principal of any Loan or any L/C Obligation, or (ii) within three days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan or on any L/C Obligation, or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
 
(b) . The Borrower or any Subsidiary fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of , , , or or ; or
Specific Covenants
Section 6.03
6.05
6.10
6.11
6.12
Article VII
 
(c) . The Borrower or any Subsidiary fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in subsection (a) or (b) above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for 30 days; or
Other Defaults
 
(d) . Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of any Loan Party herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection
Representations and Warranties
 
herewith or therewith shall be incorrect or misleading when made or deemed made in any material respect; or
 
(e) . (i) The Borrower or any Subsidiary (A) fails to make any payment when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) in respect of any Indebtedness or Guarantee (other than Indebtedness hereunder and Indebtedness under Swap Contracts) having an aggregate principal amount (including undrawn committed or available amounts and including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) of more than $10,000,000, or (B) fails to observe or perform any other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness or Guarantee or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event occurs, the effect of which default or other event is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to be demanded or to become due or to be repurchased, prepaid, defeased or redeemed (automatically or otherwise), or an offer to repurchase, prepay, defease or redeem such Indebtedness to be made, prior to its stated maturity, or such Guarantee to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to be demanded; or (ii) there occurs under any Swap Contract an Early Termination Date (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) or (B) any Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is an Affected Party (as so defined) and, in either event, the Swap Termination Value owed by any Loan Party as a result thereof is greater than $10,000,000; or
Cross-Default
 
(f) . The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc
 
(g) . (i) The Borrower or any Subsidiary becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
 
(h) . There is entered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary (i) a final judgment or order for the payment of money in an aggregate amount exceeding $10,000,000 (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which
Judgments
 
the insurer does not dispute coverage), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (B) there is a period of 45 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of payment, a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or
 
(i) . (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of $10,000,000, or (ii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of $5,000,000; or
ERISA
 
(j) . Any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or any Loan Party or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document; or any Loan Party denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Loan Document; or
Invalidity of Loan Documents
 
(k) . There occurs any Change of Control of the Borrower or the Borrower shall cease to own 100% of the outstanding Equity Interests of TMK; or
Change of Control
 
(l) . The Guaranty shall fail to remain in full force or effect or any action shall be taken by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any Governmental Authority to discontinue or to assert the invalidity or unenforceability thereof, or the Borrower denies that it has any further liability hereunder, or gives notice to such effect.
Guaranty
 
(m) . TMK shall fail at any time to remain Solvent.
Solvency
 
(n) . Any License of any Insurance Subsidiary held by such Insurance Subsidiary on the Closing Date or acquired by such Insurance Subsidiary thereafter, the loss of which would have, in the reasonable judgment of the Lenders, a Material Adverse Effect, (i) shall be revoked by a final non-appealable order by the state which shall have issued such License, or any action (whether administrative or judicial) to revoke such License shall have been commenced against such Insurance Subsidiary which shall not have been dismissed or contested in good faith within thirty (30) days of the commencement thereof, (ii) shall be suspended by such state for a period in excess of thirty (30) days or (iii) shall not be reissued or renewed by such state upon the expiration thereof following application for such reissuance or renewal by such Insurance Subsidiary. TMK shall cease to be duly licensed as an insurance company under Bermuda law.
Licenses
 
8.02 If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
Remedies Upon Event of Default.
 
(a) declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
 
(b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Loan Parties;
 
(c) require that the Loan Parties Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations (in an amount equal to the then Outstanding Amount thereof); and
 
(d) exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents;
 
, , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Loan Party under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, and the obligation of the Loan Parties to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations as aforesaid shall automatically become effective, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
 
8.03 After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable and the L/C Obligations have automatically been required to be Cash Collateralized as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
Application of Funds.
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
 
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
 
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal and interest) payable to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and the L/C Issuer (including fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of any Lender or the L/C Issuer) and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
 
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans, L/C Borrowings and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
 
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans and L/C Borrowings, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them;
Fourth
Fourth
 
, to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer, to Cash Collateralize that portion of L/C Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit;
Fifth
 
, to payment of Swap Obligations, ratably among the Lenders (or any Affiliate of any Lender entering into a Swap Contract provided that such Lender was a Lender at the time such Swap Contract was entered into) in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them; and
Sixth
Sixth
 
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
 
Subject to , amounts used to Cash Collateralize the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause Fifth above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur. If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be applied to the other Obligations, if any, in the order set forth above.
Section 2.03(c)
 
 
9.01
Appointment and Authority.
 
Each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, and neither the Borrower nor any other Loan Party shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
 
9.02The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with
Rights as a Lender.
 
the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
 
9.03The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
Exculpatory Provisions.
 
(a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
 
(b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
 
(c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
 
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and )) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by a Loan Party, a Lender or the L/C Issuer.
Sections 10.01
8.02
 
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
 
9.04The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have
Reliance by Administrative Agent.
 
been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or the L/C Issuer unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or the L/C Issuer prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance of such Letter of Credit. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for any Loan Party), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
 
9.05The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
Delegation of Duties.
 
9.06The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Loan Parties. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Loan Parties and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (except that in the case of any collateral security held by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer under any of the Loan Documents, the retiring Administrative Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a successor Administrative Agent is appointed) and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and the L/C Issuer directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise
Resignation of Administrative Agent.
provided
 
agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
Section 10.04
 
Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, (b) the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (c) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangement satisfactory to the retiring L/C Issuer to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer with respect to such Letters of Credit.
 
9.07Each Lender and the L/C Issuer acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender and the L/C Issuer also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders.
 
9.08Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, no Co-Syndication Agent listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity as a Lender hereunder.
No Other Duties, Etc.
 
9.09In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Loan Parties) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim.
 
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, L/C Obligations and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent and their
 
respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent under and , and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.03(i)
(j)
2.09
10.04
 
(b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
 
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and the L/C Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.09
10.04
 
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or the L/C Issuer any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
 
 
10.01No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by any Loan Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Loan Parties, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
Amendments, Etc.
provided
however
 
(a) waive any condition set forth in without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01(a)
 
(b) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
 
(c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
 
(d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or L/C Borrowing, or (subject to clause (iv) of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary (i) to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of any Loan Party to pay interest or Letter of
Section 10.01
provided
however
 
Credit Fees at the Default Rate or (ii) to amend any financial covenant hereunder (or any defined term used therein) even if the effect of such amendment would be to reduce the rate of interest on any Loan or L/C Borrowing or to reduce any fee payable hereunder;
 
(e) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 2.13
Section 8.03
 
(f) change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; or
 
(g) release the Guaranty provided in ,
Section 10.19
 
and, provided further, that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the L/C Issuer in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the L/C Issuer under this Agreement or any Issuer Document relating to any Letter of Credit issued or to be issued by it; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Swing Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Swing Line Lender under this Agreement; (iii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (iv) the Fee Letters may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
 
10.02
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication.
 
(a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
 
(i) if to the Loan Parties, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
 
(ii) if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
 
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have
 
been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
 
(b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to if such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or any Loan Party may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
 
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
 
(c) . Each of the Loan Parties, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Loan Parties, the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender.
Change of Address, Etc
 
(d) .The Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Revolving Loan Notices and Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Loan Parties even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. Each Loan Party shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Loan Parties. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lenders
 
10.03No failure by any Lender, the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies.
 
10.04
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
 
(a) . Each Loan Party shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the L/C Issuer in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer), and shall pay all fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Costs and Expenses
 
(b) . EACH LOAN PARTY SHALL INDEMNIFY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT (AND ANY SUB-AGENT THEREOF), EACH LENDER AND THE L/C ISSUER, AND EACH RELATED PARTY OF ANY OF THE FOREGOING PERSONS (EACH SUCH PERSON BEING CALLED AN "") AGAINST, AND HOLD EACH INDEMNITEE HARMLESS FROM, ANY AND ALL LOSSES, CLAIMS, DAMAGES, LIABILITIES AND RELATED EXPENSES (INCLUDING THE REASONABLE FEES, CHARGES AND DISBURSEMENTS OF ANY COUNSEL FOR ANY INDEMNITEE), AND SHALL INDEMNIFY AND HOLD HARMLESS EACH INDEMNITEE FROM ALL REASONABLE FEES AND TIME CHARGES AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR ATTORNEYS WHO MAY BE EMPLOYEES OF ANY INDEMNITEE, INCURRED BY ANY INDEMNITEE OR ASSERTED AGAINST ANY INDEMNITEE BY ANY THIRD PARTY OR BY ANY LOAN PARTY ARISING OUT OF, IN CONNECTION WITH, OR AS A RESULT OF (i) THE EXECUTION OR DELIVERY OF THIS AGREEMENT, ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR ANY AGREEMENT OR INSTRUMENT CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY, THE PERFORMANCE BY THE PARTIES HERETO OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OBLIGATIONS HEREUNDER OR THEREUNDER OR THE CONSUMMATION OF THE
INDEMNIFICATION BY THE BORROWERS
INDEMNITEE
 
TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY, (ii) ANY LOAN OR LETTER OF CREDIT OR THE USE OR PROPOSED USE OF THE PROCEEDS THEREFROM (INCLUDING ANY REFUSAL BY THE L/C ISSUER TO HONOR A DEMAND FOR PAYMENT UNDER A LETTER OF CREDIT IF THE DOCUMENTS PRESENTED IN CONNECTION WITH SUCH DEMAND DO NOT STRICTLY COMPLY WITH THE TERMS OF SUCH LETTER OF CREDIT), (iii) ANY ACTUAL OR ALLEGED PRESENCE OR RELEASE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON OR FROM ANY PROPERTY OWNED OR OPERATED BY THE BORROWER OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES, OR ANY ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY RELATED IN ANY WAY TO THE BORROWER OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES, OR (iv) ANY ACTUAL OR PROSPECTIVE CLAIM, LITIGATION, INVESTIGATION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO ANY OF THE FOREGOING, WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY, WHETHER BROUGHT BY A THIRD PARTY OR BY ANY LOAN PARTY, AND REGARDLESS OF WHETHER ANY INDEMNITEE IS A PARTY THERETO; THAT SUCH INDEMNITY SHALL NOT, AS TO ANY INDEMNITEE, BE AVAILABLE TO THE EXTENT THAT SUCH LOSSES, CLAIMS, DAMAGES, LIABILITIES OR RELATED EXPENSES (x) ARE DETERMINED BY A COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION BY FINAL AND NON-APPEALABLE JUDGMENT TO HAVE RESULTED FROM THE GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT OF SUCH INDEMNITEE OR (y) RESULT FROM A CLAIM BROUGHT BY ANY LOAN PARTY AGAINST AN INDEMNITEE FOR BREACH IN BAD FAITH OF SUCH INDEMNITEE'S OBLIGATIONS HEREUNDER OR UNDER ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, IF SUCH LOAN PARTY HAS OBTAINED A FINAL AND NON-APPEALABLE JUDGMENT IN ITS FAVOR ON SUCH CLAIM AS DETERMINED BY A COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION.
, IN ALL CASES, WHETHER OR NOT CAUSED BY OR ARISING, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, OUT OF THE COMPARATIVE, CONTRIBUTORY OR SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE INDEMNITEE
PROVIDED
 
(c) . To the extent that the Loan Parties for any reason fail to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), the L/C Issuer or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), the L/C Issuer or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or the L/C Issuer in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or L/C Issuer in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
Section 2.12(d)
 
(d) . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Loan Parties shall not assert, and hereby waive, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
 
damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
 
(e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
 
(f) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
 
10.05To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Loan Parties is made to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender and the L/C Issuer severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Payments Set Aside.
 
10.06
Successors and Assigns.
 
(a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that neither any Loan Party may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an Eligible Assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied,
Successors and Assigns Generally
 
shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
 
(b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more Eligible Assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this subsection (b), participations in L/C Obligations and in Swing Line Loans) at the time owing to it); that
Assignments by Lenders
provided
 
(i) except in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to a Lender, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Loan Parties otherwise consent (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed);
 
(ii) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not apply to rights in respect of Swing Line Loans;
 
(iii) any assignment of a Commitment must be approved by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender unless the Person that is the proposed assignee is itself a Lender (whether or not the proposed assignee would otherwise qualify as an Eligible Assignee); and
 
(iv) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500 (provided that no processing fee shall be required for any assignment by a Lender to any of its Affiliates), and the Eligible Assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
 
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the Eligible Assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the
 
extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment). Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
 
(c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Loan Parties, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans and L/C Obligations owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Loan Parties, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by each of the Loan Parties and the L/C Issuer at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. In addition, at any time that a request for a consent for a material or substantive change to the Loan Documents is pending, any Lender wishing to consult with other Lenders in connection therewith may request and receive from the Administrative Agent a copy of the Register.
Register
Register
 
(d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Loan Parties or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lender's participations in L/C Obligations and/or Swing Line Loans) owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Loan Parties, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
 
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that directly affects such Participant. Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, the Loan Parties agree that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also
provided
Section 10.01
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
 
shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
Section 10.08
provided
Section 2.13
 
(e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Loan Parties' prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Loan Parties are notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Loan Parties, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
 
(f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
 
(g) . The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
 
(h) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time Bank of America assigns all of its Commitment and Loans pursuant to subsection (b) above, Bank of America may, (i) upon 30 days' notice to the Loan Parties and the Lenders, resign as L/C Issuer and/or (ii) upon 30 days' notice to the Loan Parties, resign as Swing Line Lender. In the event of any such resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, the Loan Parties shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder; , , that no failure by the Loan Parties to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of Bank of America as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be. If Bank of America resigns as L/C Issuer, it shall retain all the rights and obligations of the L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts pursuant to ). If Bank of America resigns as Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to .
Resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender after Assignment
provided
however
Section 2.03(c)
Section 2.04(c)
 
10.07Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors, external auditors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the NAIC), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to any Loan Party and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Loan Parties or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than a Loan Party.
Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality.
 
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
 
10.08If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender, the L/C Issuer and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender, the L/C Issuer or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Loan Party against any and all of the obligations of such Loan Party now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or the L/C Issuer shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of such Loan Party may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender or the L/C Issuer different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender, the L/C Issuer and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender, the L/C Issuer or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender and the L/C Issuer agrees to notify the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application,
Right of Setoff.
 
that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
provided
 
10.09Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed Highest Lawful Rate. If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Highest Lawful Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the applicable Loan Party. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Highest Lawful Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
Interest Rate Limitation.
 
10.10This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.
Section 4.01
 
10.11All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding.
Survival of Representations and Warranties.
 
10.12If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability.
 
10.13If any Lender requests compensation under , or if any Loan Party is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender then the Loan Parties may, at their sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
Replacement of Lenders.
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.06
provided
 
(a) the Loan Parties shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
 
(b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and L/C Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Loan Parties (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
 
(c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
 
(d) such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
 
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrowers to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
 
10.14
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc.
 
(a) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REFERENCE TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF; THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER SHALL RETAIN ALL RIGHTS UNDER FEDERAL LAW.
GOVERNING LAW
PROVIDED
 
(b) . EACH LOAN PARTY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
 
ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ANY LENDER OR THE L/C ISSUER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST ANY LOAN PARTY OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
 
(c) . THE BORROWER AND EACH OTHER LOAN PARTY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (c) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
 
(d) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN (EXCLUDING, HOWEVER, ANY ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS PERMITTED PURSUANT TO SUCH SECTION). NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
 
10.15 EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (a) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (b) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
Waiver of Jury Trial.
 
10.16 Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary shall be deemed to be permitted to take any action or fail to take any action which is permitted as an exception to any of the covenants contained herein or which is within the permissible limits of any of the covenants contained herein if such action or omission would result in the breach of any other covenant contained herein.
Exceptions to Covenants.
 
10.17Each of the parties hereto represents to each other party hereto that it has discussed this Agreement and the other Loan Documents with its counsel. The parties hereto have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. In the event of an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties hereto and thereto and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provisions of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
No Strict Construction.
 
10.18Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrowers, which information includes the name and address of the Borrowers and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
USA PATRIOT Act Notice.
Act
 
10.19
Guaranty.
 
(a) . The Borrower hereby absolutely, irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees prompt, full and complete payment when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, and at all times thereafter, of all Obligations (the ""). The Borrower agrees that if TMK shall fail to pay when due any Guaranteed Debt, the Borrower will promptly pay the same without notice or demand whatsoever. This is a guaranty of payment, not a guaranty of collection.
Guaranty of Payment
Guaranteed Debt
 
(b) . The Borrower waives notice of the acceptance of this Guaranty and of the extension or incurrence of the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof. The Borrower further waives all setoffs and counterclaims and presentment, protests, notice, filing of claims with a court in the event of receivership, bankruptcy or reorganization of TMK, demand or action on delinquency in respect of the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof, including any right to require the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders to sue TMK, any other guarantor or any other Person obligated with respect to the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof, or otherwise to enforce payment thereof against any collateral securing the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof.
Acceptance of Guaranty; No Setoffs
 
(c) . The Borrower hereby agrees that, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, its obligations hereunder shall be continuing, absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances and not subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment, termination, defense (other than indefeasible payment in full), setoff, counterclaim or recoupment
Nature of Guaranty; Continuing, Absolute and Unconditional
 
whatsoever (all of which are hereby expressly waived by it to the fullest extent permitted by Law), whether by reason of any claim of any character whatsoever, including, without limitation, any claim of waiver, release, surrender, alteration or compromise. The validity and enforceability of this Guaranty shall not be impaired or affected by any of the following: (i) any extension, modification or renewal of, or indulgence with respect to, or substitution for, the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof or any agreement relating thereto at any time; (ii) any failure or omission to perfect or maintain any lien on, or preserve rights to, any security or collateral or to enforce any right, power or remedy with respect to the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof or any agreement relating thereto, or any collateral securing the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof; (iii) any waiver of any right, power or remedy or of any default with respect to the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof or any agreement relating thereto or with respect to any collateral securing the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof; (iv) any release, surrender, compromise, settlement, waiver, subordination or modification, with or without consideration, of any collateral securing the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof, any other guaranties with respect to the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof, or any other obligations of any person or entity with respect to the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof; (v) the enforceability or validity of the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof or the genuineness, enforceability or validity of any agreement relating thereto or with respect to any collateral securing the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof; (vi) the application of payments received from any source to the payment of indebtedness other than the Guaranteed Debt, any part thereof or amounts which are not covered by this Guaranty even though the Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and the Lenders might lawfully have elected to apply such payments to any part or all of the Guaranteed Debt or to amounts which are not covered by this Guaranty; (vii) any change of ownership of TMK or the insolvency, bankruptcy or any other change in the legal status of TMK; (viii) any change in, or the imposition of, any Law, decree, or other governmental act which does or might impair, delay or in any way affect the validity, enforceability or the payment when due of the Guaranteed Debt; (ix) the failure of TMK to maintain in full force, validity or effect or to obtain or renew when required all governmental, insurance and other approvals, licenses or consents required in connection with the Guaranteed Debt or this Guaranty, or to take any other action required in connection with the performance of all obligations pursuant to the Guaranteed Debt or this Guaranty; (x) the existence of any claim, setoff or other rights which the Borrower may have at any time against TMK or any other guarantor or any other Person in connection herewith or with any unrelated transaction; (xi) the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders' election, in any case or proceeding instituted under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code or any applicable federal, state or foreign bankruptcy or other similar law, of the application of Section 1111(b)(2) of the United States Bankruptcy Code or other similar provision under any applicable federal, state or foreign bankruptcy or other similar Law; (xii) any borrowing, use of cash collateral, or grant of a security interest by TMK, as debtor in possession, under Section 363 or 364 of the United States Bankruptcy Code or any applicable federal, state or foreign bankruptcy or other similar Law; (xiii) the disallowance of all or any portion of any of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lender's claims for repayment of the Guaranteed Debt under Section 502 or 506 of the United States Bankruptcy Code or any applicable federal, state or foreign bankruptcy or other similar Law; or (xiv) any other fact or circumstance which might otherwise constitute grounds at Law or equity for the discharge or release of the Borrower from its obligations hereunder, all whether or not
 
the Borrower shall have had notice or knowledge of any act or omission referred to in the foregoing clauses (i) through (xiv) of this paragraph. It is agreed that the Borrower's liability hereunder is independent of any other guaranties or other obligations at any time in effect with respect to the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof, and that the Borrower's liability hereunder may be enforced regardless of the existence, validity, enforcement or non-enforcement of any such other guaranties or other obligations or any provision of any Applicable Law purporting to prohibit payment by TMK of the Guaranteed Debt in the manner agreed upon among the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, the Lenders and TMK.
 
(d) . Credit may be granted or continued from time to time by the L/C Issuer or the Lenders to TMK without notice to or authorization from the Borrower regardless of TMK's financial or other condition at the time of any such grant or continuation. Neither the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer nor any Lender shall have an obligation to disclose or discuss with the Borrower its assessment of the financial condition of TMK.
Dealings with TMK
 
(e) . Until the irrevocable payment in full of the Obligations and termination of all commitments which could give rise to any Obligation, the Borrower shall have no right of subrogation with respect to the Guaranteed Debt and hereby waives any right to enforce any remedy which the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders now have or may hereafter have against TMK, any endorser or any other guarantor of all or any part of the Guaranteed Debt, and the Borrower hereby waives any benefit of, and any right to participate in, any security or collateral given to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders to secure payment of the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof or any other liability of TMK to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders. Upon such irrevocable payment and termination, TMK shall indemnify the Borrower for the full amount of any payment made by the Borrower under this Guaranty and the Borrower shall be subrogated to the rights of the Person to whom such payment shall have been made to the extent of such payment.
Subrogation
 
(f) . The Borrower authorizes the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders to take any action or exercise any remedy with respect to any non-cash collateral from time to time securing the Guaranteed Debt, which the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders in their sole discretion shall determine, without notice to the Borrower. In the event the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders in their sole discretion elect to give notice of any action with respect to any non-cash collateral securing the Guaranteed Debt or any part thereof, ten (10) days' written notice mailed to the Borrower by ordinary mail at the address set forth in shall be deemed reasonable notice of any matters contained in such notice. The Borrower consents and agrees that neither the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer nor the Lenders shall be under any obligation to marshal any assets in favor of the Borrower or against or in payment of any or all of the Guaranteed Debt.
Collateral
Schedule 10.02
 
(g) In the event that acceleration of the time for payment of any of the Guaranteed Debt is stayed upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of TMK, or otherwise, all such amounts shall nonetheless be payable by the Borrower forthwith upon demand by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the
Rights to Payments, Etc.
 
Lenders. The Borrower further agrees that, to the extent that TMK makes a payment or payments to any of the L/C Issuer or the Lenders on the Guaranteed Debt, or the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders receive any proceeds of collateral securing the Guaranteed Debt, which payment or receipt of proceeds or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required to be returned or repaid to TMK, its estate, trustee, receiver, debtor in possession or any other party, including, without limitation, the Borrower, under any insolvency or bankruptcy Law, state or federal Law, common Law or equitable cause, then to the extent of such payment, return or repayment, the obligation or part thereof which has been paid, reduced or satisfied by such amount shall be reinstated and continued in full force and effect as of the date when such initial payment, reduction or satisfaction occurred.
 
(h) . No delay on the part of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders in the exercise of any right, power or remedy shall operate as a waiver thereof, and no single or partial exercise by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders of any right, power or remedy shall preclude any further exercise thereof; nor shall any amendment, supplement, modification or waiver of any of the terms or provisions of this Guaranty be binding upon the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders, except as expressly set forth in writing duly signed and delivered on the L/C Issuer and the Lenders' behalf by the Administrative Agent. The failure by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders at any time or times hereafter to require strict performance by TMK or the Borrower of any of the provisions, warranties, terms and conditions contained in any promissory note, security agreement, agreement, guaranty, instrument or document now or at any time or times hereafter executed pursuant to the terms of, or in connection with, this Agreement by TMK or the Borrower and delivered to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders shall not waive, affect or diminish any right of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders at any time or times hereafter to demand strict performance thereof, and such right shall not be deemed to have been waived by any act or knowledge of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders, their agents, officers or employees, unless such waiver is contained in an instrument in writing duly signed and delivered on the L/C Issuer and the Lenders' behalf by the Administrative Agent. No waiver by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders of any default shall operate as a waiver of any other default or the same default on a future occasion, and no action by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders permitted hereunder shall in any way affect or impair the Administrative Agent's, the L/C Issuer's or the Lenders' rights or powers, or the obligations of the Borrower under this Guaranty. Any determination by a court of competent jurisdiction of the amount of any Guaranteed Debt owing by TMK to the L/C Issuer and the Lenders shall be conclusive and binding on the Borrower irrespective of whether the Borrower was a party to the suit or action in which such determination was made.
No Waiver
 
(i) . In addition to and without limitation of any rights, powers or remedies of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders under applicable Law, any time after maturity of the Guaranteed Debt, whether by acceleration or otherwise, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Lenders may, in their sole discretion, with notice after the fact to the Borrower and regardless of the acceptance of any security or collateral for the payment hereof, appropriate and apply toward the
Setoff
 
payment of the Guaranteed Debtor (i) any indebtedness due to or to become due from any of the L/C Issuer or the Lenders to the Borrower, and (ii) any moneys, credits or other property belonging to the Borrower (including all account balances, whether provisional or final and whether or not collected or available) at any time held by or coming into the possession of any of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender whether for deposit or otherwise.
 
(j) . Wherever possible, each provision of this shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under Applicable Law, but if any provision of this shall be prohibited by or invalid under such Law, such provision shall be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity without invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this .
Severability
Section 10.19
Section 10.19
Section 10.19
 
(k) . It is understood that while the amount of the Guaranteed Debt guaranteed hereby is not limited, if in any action or proceeding involving any state, federal or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency or other Law affecting the rights of creditors generally, this Guaranty would be held or determined to be void, invalid or unenforceable on account of the amount of the aggregate liability under this Guaranty with respect to the Borrower, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Guaranty to the contrary, the aggregate amount of such liability shall, with respect to the Borrower, without any further action of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, the Lenders or any other Person, be automatically limited and reduced with respect to the Borrower to the highest amount which is valid and enforceable as determined in such action or proceeding. The obligations of the Borrower under this shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Miscellaneous
Section 10.19
 
10.20
ENTIRE AGREEMENT. THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT AMONG THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES. THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS AMONG THE PARTIES.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1.01
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2.01
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 5.05
 
 
Torchmark has in place four guarantee agreements, all of which are either parent company guarantees of subsidiary obligations to a third party, or parent company guarantees of obligations between wholly-owned subsidiaries. As of September 30, 2004, Torchmark had no liability with respect to these guarantees.
Guarantees:
 
: Torchmark entered into a performance guarantee for the obligations of the Torchmark Capital Trusts I and II when the trust preferred securities were issued by those trusts. It guarantees payment of distributions and the redemption price of the securities until the securities are redeemed in full, or all obligations have been satisfied should one or both of the Capital Trusts default on an obligation. The total redemption price of the trust preferred securities is $150 million.
Trust Preferred Securities
 
: Torchmark has guaranteed letters of credit in connection with its credit facility with a group of banks. The letters of credit were issued by TMK Re, Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary, to secure TMK Re, Ltd.'s obligation for claims on certain policies reinsured by TMK Re, Ltd. that were sold by other Torchmark insurance companies. These letters of credit facilitate TMK Re, Ltd.'s ability to reinsure the business of Torchmark's insurance carriers. The agreement is in an annually renewable contract expiring in 2006. The maximum amount of letters of credit available is $200 million. Torchmark (parent company) would be liable to the extent that TMK Re, Ltd. does not pay the reinsured party. At September 30, 2004, $159 million of letters of credit were outstanding.
Letters of Credit
 
: Torchmark issued a guarantee to an unaffiliated third party, which has purchased certain agents' receivables of Torchmark's wholly-owned subsidiary American Income Life Insurance Company. The guarantee covers all obligations and recovery of capital to the third party under the receivables purchase agreement up to a maximum amount of $100 million. Under the terms of the revolving purchase arrangement, the third party has purchased the agents' receivables and receives the earned commissions as they are applied to the balance. The term of the guarantee corresponds with the purchase arrangement, which is annually renewable. Torchmark would be liable to the extent that future commission collections were insufficient to repay the purchased amount. As of September 30, 2004, the present value of future commissions substantially exceeded the purchase balance.
Agent Receivables
 
: Torchmark has guaranteed performance of two subsidiaries as lessees under leasing arrangements for aviation equipment. The leases commenced in 2003 for lease terms of approximately 10 years. Lessees have certain renewal and early termination options, however. At September 30, 2004, total remaining undiscounted payments under the leases were approximately $7.2 million. Torchmark (parent company) would be responsible for any subsidiary obligation in the event the subsidiary did not make payments or otherwise perform under the terms of the lease.
Equipment Leases
 
 
SCHEDULE 5.06
 
 
Actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of Torchmark Corporation, ("Torchmark"), threatened or contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against Torchmark or any of its subsidiaries or against their properties or revenues:
 
 
None.
 
 
Torchmark has disclosed the following litigation involving the Company and/or its subsidiaries in its Forms 10-K and Forms 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based upon information presently available, and in light of legal and other factual defenses available to Torchmark and its subsidiaries, Company management does not believe that the foregoing litigation will have a material adverse effect on Torchmark's financial condition, future operating results or liquidity. Assessing the eventual outcome of litigation, however, necessarily involves forward looking speculation as to judgments to be made by judges, juries and appellate courts in the future in jurisdictions recognized for large punitive damage awards bearing little or no relation to actual damages.
 
 
Schedule 5.13
 
 
Part (a) Subsidiaries.
 
Torchmark Corporation owns, either directly or indirectly, 100% of the outstanding Equity Interests in the following Subsidiaries:
 
AILIC Receivables Corporation
American Income Life Insurance Company
American Income Marketing Services, Inc.
American Life and Accident Insurance Company
Brown-Service Funeral Homes Company, Inc.
First United American Life Insurance Company
Globe Insurance Agency, Inc. (AL)
Globe Insurance Agency, Inc. (AR)
Globe Life And Accident Insurance Company
Globe Marketing Services, Inc.
Liberty National Auto Club, Inc.
Liberty National Life Insurance Company
National Income Life Insurance Company
TMK Re, Ltd.
Torch Royalty Company
United American Insurance Company
United Investors Life Insurance Company
 
Torchmark Corporation also owns 100% of the common securities of Torchmark Capital Trust I and Torchmark Capital Trust II. The preferred securities of these trusts are publicly held.
 
Part (b) Other Equity Investments.
 
None
 
 
SCHEDULE 5.19
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 10.02
 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT:
(Other Notices as Administrative Agent)
Bank of America, N.A.
Agency Management
1445 Market Street, 5th Floor
Mail Code: CA5-701-05-19
San Francisco, California 94103-1399
Attention: Aamir Saleem
Telephone: (415) 436-2769
Telecopier: (415) 503-5089
Electronic Mail: aamir.saleem@bankofamerica.com
 
Administrative Agent's Office
(for payments and Requests for Credit Extensions):
Bank of America, N.A.
1850 Gateway Boulevard
Mail Code: CA4-706-05-09
Concord, California 94520
Attention: Eileen Rakish
Telephone: (925) 675-7485
Telecopier: (888) 969-9226
Electronic Mail: eileen.m.rakish@bankofamerica.com
Account No.: 3750836479
Reference: Torchmark Corporation
Attention: Credit Services
ABA# 111000012
 
SWING LINE LENDER:
 
Bank of America, N.A.
1850 Gateway Boulevard
Mail Code: CA4-706-05-09
Concord, California 94520
Attention: Eileen Rakish
Telephone: (925) 675-7485
Telecopier: (888) 969-9226
Electronic Mail: eileen.m.rakish@bankofamerica.com
Account No.: 3750836479
Reference: Torchmark Corporation
Attention: Credit Services
ABA# 111000012
 
Other Notices as a Lender:
 
Bank of America, N.A.
901 Main Street, 64th Floor
Mail Code: TX1-492-64-01
Dallas, Texas 75202
Attention: Jeffrey Shaver
Telephone: (214) 209-9031
Telecopier: (214) 209-3742
Electronic Mail: Jeffrey.m.shaver@bankofamerica.com
 
L/C ISSUER:
Bank of America, N.A.
Trade Operations  Los Angeles
333 South Beaudry Avenue
Los Angeles, California 90017
Mail Code: CA9-702-19-23
Attention: Bolivar Carrillo
Telephone: (213) 345-0089
Telecopier: (213) 345-6684
Electronic Mail: Bolivar.carrillo@bankofamerica.com
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
This Assignment and Assumption (this "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [Insert name of Assignor] (the "") and [Insert name of Assignee] (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
Assignor
Assignee
Credit Agreement
 
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including, without limitation, the Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as, the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective Date: , 20 [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
                                        
        
 
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Consented to and]
6
Accepted:
 
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as
    Administrative Agent
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 1 TO ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
 
 
1. Representations and Warranties.
 
1.1. . The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
 
1.2. . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all requirements of an Eligible Assignee under the Credit Agreement (subject to receipt of such consents as may be required under the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and (v) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
Section 6.01
 
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor amounts which have accrued to but excluding the
Payments
 
Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
 
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
Financial Statement Date: ,
                    
        
 
To: Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Torchmark Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), TMK Re, Ltd., the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.
Agreement
Borrower
 
The undersigned Responsible Officer hereby certifies as of the date hereof that he/she is the of the Borrower, and that, as such, he/she is authorized to execute and deliver this Certificate to the Administrative Agent on the behalf of the Borrower, and that:
                                                     
 
 
1. Attached hereto as are the year-end audited financial statements required by of the Agreement for the fiscal year of the Borrower ended as of the above date, together with the report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant required by such section.
Schedule 1
Section 6.01(a)
 
 
1. Attached hereto as are the unaudited financial statements required by of the Agreement for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended as of the above date. Such financial statements fairly present the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP as at such date and for such period, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
Schedule 1
Section 6.01(b)
 
2. The undersigned has reviewed and is familiar with the terms of the Agreement and has made, or has caused to be made under his/her supervision, a review of the transactions and condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
 
3. A review of the activities of the Borrower during such fiscal period has been made under the supervision of the undersigned with a view to determining whether during such fiscal period the Borrower performed and observed all its Obligations under the Loan Documents, and
 
[select one:]
 
[to the best knowledge of the undersigned during such fiscal period, the Borrower performed and observed each covenant and condition of the Loan Documents applicable to it.]
 
or
 
[the following covenants or conditions have not been performed or observed and the following is a list of each such Default and its nature and status:]
 
4. The representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in of the Agreement (excluding ), and any representations and warranties of any Loan Party that are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection with the Loan Documents, are true and correct on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this Compliance Certificate, the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of of the Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of of the Agreement, including the statements in connection with which this Compliance Certificate is delivered.
Article V
Section 5.5(c)
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
 
5. The financial covenant analyses and information set forth on attached hereto are true and accurate on and as of the date of this Certificate.
Schedule 2
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of , .
                            
                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT C
 
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the ""), hereby promises to pay to or registered assigns (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of and NO/100 DOLLARS ($) or such lesser principal amount of Revolving Loans (as defined in such Agreement) due and payable by the Borrowers to the Lender on the Maturity Date under that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrower, TMK Re, Ltd., the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.
Borrower
                                
Lender
                                             
                            
Agreement
 
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan from the date of such Revolving Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Agreement. ll payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in Dollars in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Agreement.
A
 
This Note is one of the Revolving Notes referred to in the Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Revolving Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Agreement. Revolving Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Revolving Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Revolving Loans and payments with respect thereto.
 
The Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, acceleration, and notice of acceleration, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
 
THIS REVOLVING NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT D
 
 
Date: ,
                    
        
 
To: Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Torchmark Corporation, a Delaware corporation, (the ""), TMK Re, Ltd., the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.
Agreement
Borrower
 
The undersigned hereby requests (select one):
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Revolving Borrowing, if any, requested herein complies with the provisos to the first sentence of of the Agreement.
Section 2.01
 
 
 
EXHIBIT E
 
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the ""), hereby promises to pay to the order of BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. ("") or registered assigns (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Swing Line Loan from time to time made by the Swing Line Lender to each Borrower under that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrower, TMK Re, Ltd., the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.
Borrower
Swing Line Lender
Lender
Agreement
 
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Swing Line Loan from the date of such Swing Line Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Agreement. All payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender in Dollars in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Agreement.
 
This Note is the Swing Line Note referred to in the Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Swing Line Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Agreement. Swing Line Loans made by the Swing Line Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Swing Line Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Swing Line Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of the Swing Line Loans and payments with respect thereto.
 
The Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, acceleration, and notice of acceleration, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
 
THIS SWING LINE NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT F
 
 
Date: ,
                    
            
 
Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Torchmark Corporation, a Delaware corporation, (the ""), TMK Re, Ltd., the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.
Agreement
Borrower
 
The undersigned hereby requests a Swing Line Loan:
 
 
The Swing Line Borrowing requested herein complies with the requirements of the provisos to the first sentence of of the Agreement.
Section 2.04(a)
 
 


