FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20050504095401.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shareholders of Torchmark Corporation approved the Torchmark Corporation 2005 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan (the "Director Plan") and the Torchmark Corporation 2005 Incentive Plan (the "Incentive Plan") on April 28, 2005. The Director Plan was described in and submitted as Appendix A to the Schedule 14A Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Torchmark Corporation held April 28, 2005 (the "2005 Proxy Statement"). The Incentive Plan was described in and submitted as Appendix B to the 2005 Proxy Statement. By virtue of the receipt of shareholder approval of the Director Plan, certain contingently granted director deferred compensation stock options also became effective on April 28, 2005.
 
 
 
Director George J. Records retired from the Board of Directors on April 28, 2005. His decision not to stand for reelection to an additional term was previously timely reported in a Form 8-K dated February 16, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1. Registered Office:
 
The registered office shall be established and maintained at the office of the United States Corporation Company, in the city of Dover, in the County of Kent, in the State of Delaware, and said Corporation shall be the registered agent of this Corporation in charge thereof.
 
Section 2. Other Offices:
 
The Corporation may have other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, at such place or places as the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint or the business of the Corporation may require. The principal place of business of the Corporation shall be in Birmingham, Alabama.
 
 
Section 1. Stockholder Action:
 
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by
 
any consent in writing by such stockholders. Special meetings of stockholders of the Corporation may be called only by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, upon not less than ten nor more than sixty days' written or electronic notice. Notwithstanding anything contained in these By-Laws to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of all of the shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors shall be required to amend or repeal, or to adopt any provision inconsistent with, this Article II.
 
Section 2. Annual Meetings:
 
Annual meetings of stockholders for the election of directors and for such other business as may be stated in the notice of the meeting, shall be held at such place, either within or without the state of Delaware, or by means of remote communication, and at such time and date as the Board of Directors, by resolution, shall determine and as set forth in the notice of the meeting. In the event the Board of Directors fails to so determine the time, date and place of meeting, if any, the annual meeting of stockholders shall be held at the principal executive offices of the Corporation in Alabama on the last Thursday of April.
 
If the date of the annual meeting shall fall upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held on the next succeeding business day. At each annual meeting, the stockholders entitled to vote shall elect members
 
of a class of the Board of Directors, and they may transact such other corporate business as may properly come before the meeting.
 
Section 3. Voting:
 
Each stockholder entitled to vote in accordance with the terms of the Certificate of Incorporation and in accordance with the provisions of these By-Laws shall be entitled to one vote, in person or by proxy, for each share of stock entitled to vote held by such stockholder, but no proxy shall be voted after eleven (11) months from its date unless such proxy provides for a longer period. Any stockholder proxy may be prepared, transmitted and delivered in any manner permitted by applicable law. Such proxy shall be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation before or at the time of the meeting. Upon the demand of any stockholder, the vote for directors and the vote upon any question before the meeting shall be by ballot, and if authorized by the Board of Directors, the ballot may be submitted by electronic transmission in the manner provided by law. All elections for directors shall be decided by a plurality vote; all other questions shall be decided by a majority vote except as otherwise provided by these By-Laws, the Certificate of Incorporation or the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
A complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the ensuing election, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of each, and the number of shares held by each, shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either on a reasonably accessible
 
electronic network as permitted by law (provided that the information required to gain access to the list is provided with the notice of the meeting) or at the principal place of business of the Corporation. If the meeting is held at a place, the list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. If the meeting is held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access the list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting.
 
Section 4. Quorum:
 
A majority of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at meetings of stockholders. In determining whether a quorum is present, shares held by a subsidiary corporation owned by this Corporation, and treasury shares, shall not be counted. If less than a majority of the outstanding shares are represented, a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice, but until a quorum is secured no other business may be transacted. The stockholders present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until an adjournment notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum. At any duly organized meeting, except as otherwise provided by these By-Laws or in the Certificate of Incorporation, a vote of a majority of the
 
stock represented thereat shall decide any question brought before the meeting.
 
Section 5. Notice of Meetings:
 
Notice, stating the place, if any, date and time of the meeting, the means of remote communication, if any, by which the stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, and the general nature of the business to be considered, shall be given in writing or by electronic transmission in the manner provided by law (including without limitation, as set forth in Article VI, Section 10 of these By-laws) to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting. No business other than that stated in the notice shall be transacted at any meeting without the unanimous consent of all the stockholders entitled to vote thereat.
 
Section 6. Order of Business:
 
The order of business at the annual meeting and, as far as practicable, at all other meetings of the stockholders shall be as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1. Number, Election and Terms:
 
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of not less than seven nor more than 15 persons. The exact number of directors within the minimum and maximum limitations specified in the preceding sentence shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. At the 1984 annual meeting of stockholders, the directors shall be divided into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, with the term of office of the first class to expire at the 1985 annual meeting of stockholders, the term of office of the second class to expire at the 1986 annual meeting of stockholders and the term of office of the third class to expire at the 1987 annual meeting of stockholders. At each annual meeting of stockholders following such initial classification and election, directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms expire shall be elected for a term of office to expire at the third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election. Directors need not be stockholders.
 
Section 2. Resignations:
 
Any director, member of a committee or other officer may resign at any time. Such resignation shall be made in writing, and shall take effect at the time of its receipt by the Chief Executive Officer or Secretary or at such other time as may be specified therein. The acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
 
Section 3. Newly Created Directorships and Vacancies:
 
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred stock then outstanding, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause shall be filled by a majority vote of the directors then in office, or if all of the directors shall have been removed, by a majority vote of the stockholders, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of the class to which they have been elected expires. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
 
If the office of any member of a committee or other officer becomes vacant, the directors in office, by a majority vote, may appoint any qualified person to fill such vacancy, who shall hold office for the unexpired term and until his successor shall be duly chosen.
 
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, any director, or the entire Board of
 
Directors, may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of all of the shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
 
If the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding are entitled to elect one or more directors, these provisions shall not apply, in respect to the removal of a director or directors so elected, to the vote of the holders of the outstanding shares of that series and the rights of the holders of such shares shall be as set out in the Certificate of Designations, Preferences & Rights for such shares.
 
Section 4. Powers:
 
The Board of Directors shall exercise all the powers of the Corporation except such as are by law, or by the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or by these By-Laws conferred upon or reserved to the stockholders.
 
Section 5. Election of Committee Members:
 
At each regular annual meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors may, by resolution or resolutions passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate directors to serve as members of the executive committee, the compensation committee, and the audit committee until the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors and until their successors are duly designated. At any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors may elect additional
 
advisors for these committees. Such advisors may or may not be members of the Board of Directors and shall serve until the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors or for the period of time designated by the Board. The Board of Directors may from time to time provide for such other committees as may be deemed necessary and assign to such committees such authority and duties as are appropriate and allowed by Delaware law.
 
Section 6. Meetings:
 
The directors may hold their annual meeting for the purpose of organization and the transaction of business, if a quorum be present, immediately after the annual meeting of the stockholders; or the time and place of such meeting may be fixed by consent in writing of all the directors.
 
Regular meetings of the directors may be held without notice at such places and times as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the directors.
 
Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chief Executive Officer at any time or by the Secretary on the written request of any two directors upon at least twelve hours personal notice to each director. For purposes of this paragraph, personal notice shall be deemed given if telephonic notice is given to the business office of a director during normal business hours (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.) in the respective time zone in which the director's office is located. Such special meetings shall be held at such place or places as may be determined by the Chief Executive Officer or the
 
directors calling the meeting, and shall be stated in the notice of the call of the meeting.
 
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
 
Section 7. Quorum:
 
A majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum is obtained, and no further notice thereof need be given other than by announcement at the meeting which shall be so adjourned.
 
Section 8. Compensation:
 
Directors shall not receive any stated salary for their services as directors or as members of committees, except that by resolution of the Board of Directors, retainer fees, meeting fees, expenses of attendance at meetings and other benefits and payments may be authorized. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude
 
any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent or otherwise, and receiving compensation therefore.
 
Section 9. Action without Meeting:
 
Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting, if prior to such action a written consent thereto is signed by all members of the Board of Directors, or of such committee as the case may be, and such written consent is filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
 
Section 10. Amendment, Repeal, etc.:
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in these By-Laws to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of all of the shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors shall be required to amend or repeal, or to adopt any provision inconsistent with, this Article III.
 
 
Section 1. Compensation Committee:
 
The Board of Directors may elect from its own membership a compensation committee of not less than three nor more than eight members whose chairman shall also be named by the directors. The compensation committee shall prescribe the compensation of all officers having an annual compensation of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) or more. The compensation of all other officers shall be determined by the Chief Executive Officer.
 
Section 2. Audit Committee:
 
The audit committee shall consist of not less than three nor more than eight members elected by the directors from among their own number; provided, however, that a majority of the members of the committee shall be outside directors. The audit committee shall recommend to the Board the firm to be employed by the Corporation as its external auditor; shall consult with the persons chosen to be the external auditors with regard to the plan of audit; shall review the fees of the external auditors for audit and non-audit services; shall review, in consultation with the external auditors, their report of audit, or proposed report of audit, and the accompanying management letter, if any; shall review with management and the external auditor before publication or issuance, the annual financial statement, and any annual reports to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; shall consult with the external auditors (periodically, as appropriate, out of the presence of management) with regard to the adequacy of the internal auditing and general accounting functions of the Corporation; shall consult with the internal auditors (periodically, as appropriate, out of the presence of management) with regard to cooperation of corporate divisions with the internal auditing and accounting departments and the adequacy of corporate systems of accounting and controls; shall serve as a communications liaison between the Board of Directors, the external auditors, and the internal auditors; and shall perform such other duties not inconsistent with the spirit and purpose of the committee as are delegated to it by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 3. Meetings:
 
Meetings of the compensation committee and the audit committee shall be held on call of the chairman of the board or any committee member. Meetings may be held informally, by telephone, or by mail, and it is not necessary that members of the committee be physically present together in order for a meeting to be held. Two or more members of a committee shall constitute a quorum.
 
 
Section 1. Officers:
 
The officers of the Corporation shall be a President, such Vice-Presidents as shall from time to time be deemed necessary, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such other officers as may be deemed appropriate. A Chairman of the Board and a Vice Chairman of the Board may also be elected. All such officers shall be elected by the Board of Directors and shall hold office until their successors are elected and qualified. None of the officers of the Corporation need be directors. More than one office may be held by the same person.
 
Section 2. Chairman of the Board:
 
In the event that there is a Chairman of the Board, he shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and stockholders. He shall have and perform such duties as usually devolve upon his office and such other duties as are prescribed by the By-Laws and by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 3. Vice Chairman of the Board:
 
The Vice Chairman of the Board shall in the absence or inability to act of the Chairman of the Board preside at all meetings of the stockholders and directors, and exercise and discharge the responsibilities and duties of the Chairman of the Board. He shall have and perform such other duties as may be prescribed or assigned by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board.
 
Section 4. President:
 
The President shall be the chief operating officer of the Corporation and shall perform such duties as usually devolve upon his office and such other duties as are prescribed by the By-Laws, by the Board of Directors, and by the Chairman. In the absence or inability to act of the Chairman of the Board and the vice Chairman of the Board or if the offices of Chairman of the Board and vice Chairman of the Board shall be vacant, the President shall have and exercise all the powers and duties of such office. If the Chairman of the Board, vice Chairman of the Board or the President is absent from any meeting of the Board of Directors or stockholders where either was to have presided, the other directors shall elect one of their number to preside at the meeting.
 
Section 5. Vice Presidents:
 
The Vice Presidents shall perform such duties as may be assigned to them from time to time by the By-Laws, the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the President.
 
Section 6. Treasurer:
 
The Treasurer shall have custody of all funds of the Corporation. He shall have and perform such duties as are incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him by the Board of Directors, the Chairman, or the President.
 
Section 7. Secretary:
 
The Secretary shall keep minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors unless otherwise directed by those bodies. He/She shall have custody of the corporate seal, and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary shall affix the same to all instruments or papers requiring the seal of the corporation. The Secretary, or in his/her absence, any Assistant Secretary, shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the Corporation. He/She shall perform all the duties incident to the office of Secretary, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, and shall do and perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Board of Directors, the Chairman, or the President.
 
Section 8. Other Officers and Agents:
 
The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers and agents as it may deem advisable, who shall exercise such powers and perform such
 
duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 9. Chief Executive Officer:
 
The Chairman of the Board or the President, as may be designated by the Board of Directors, shall serve as the chief executive officer of the Corporation. Subject to the control of the Board of Directors, he shall be vested with authority to act for the Corporation, and shall have general and active management of the business of the Corporation and such other general powers and duties of supervision and management as usually devolve upon such office and as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 10. Election and Term:
 
The officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the first meeting held after each annual meeting of stockholders. Each officer shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Directors until his death, resignation, retirement, or removal. Any officer may be elected by the Board of Directors at other than annual meetings to serve until the first meeting of the Board of Directors held after the annual meeting of stockholders next following his election.
 
 
Section 1. Certificates of Stock:
 
A certificate of stock or certificates of stock, signed by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board, the President or Vice-President, the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, shall be adopted by the Board of Directors and shall be issued to each stockholder certifying the number of shares owned by him in the Corporation. Any or all of the signatures may be facsimiles.
 
Section 2. Lost Certificates:
 
The Board of Directors may order a new certificate or certificates of stock to be issued in the place of any certificate or certificates of the Corporation alleged to have been lost or destroyed, but in every such case the owner of the lost certificate or certificates shall first cause to be given to the Corporation or its authorized agent a bond in such sum as said Board may direct, as indemnity against any loss that the Corporation may incur by reason of such replacement of the lost certificate or certificates; but the Board of Directors may, at their discretion refuse to replace any lost certificate of stock save upon the order of some court having jurisdiction in such matter and may cause such legend to be inscribed on the new certificate or certificates as in the Board's discretion may be necessary to prevent loss to the Corporation.
 
Section 3. Transfer of Shares:
 
The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be transferable only upon its books by the holders thereof in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives, and upon such transfer the old certificates shall be surrendered to the Corporation by the delivery thereof to the person in charge of the stock and transfer books, and ledgers, or to the authorized agent of the Corporation, by whom they shall be cancelled, and new certificates shall thereupon be issued. A record shall be made of each transfer and whenever a transfer shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer. The Corporation may decline to register on its stock books transfers of stock standing in the name of infants, unless (a) the law of the state of which the infant is a resident relieves the Corporation of all liability therefore in case the infant or anyone acting for him thereafter elects to rescind such transfer, or (b) a court having jurisdiction of the infant and the subject matter enters a valid decree authorizing such transfer.
 
Section 4. Fractional Shares:
 
No fractional part of a share of stock shall ever be issued by this Corporation.
 
Section 5. Stockholders Record Date:
 
In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
 
Section 6. Dividends:
 
Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may, out of funds legally available therefore at any regular or special meeting, declare dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation as and when they deem expedient. Before declaring any dividend there may be set apart out of any fund of the Corporation available for dividends, such sum or sums as the directors from time to time in their discretion deem proper for working capital or as a reserve fund to meet contingencies or for equalizing dividends or for such other purposes as the directors shall deem conducive to the interests of the Corporation.
 
The corporation may decline to pay cash dividends to infant stockholders except where full and valid release may be granted by the infant or under a decree of court of competent jurisdiction.
 
Section 7. Seal:
 
The corporate seal shall consist of two concentric circles between which shall be "TORCHMARK CORPORATION DELAWARE" with a representation of the Corporate Logogram in the center.
 
Section 8. Fiscal Year:
 
The Fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
 
Section 9. Checks:
 
All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or agents of the Corporation, and in such manner as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.
 
Section 10. Notice and Waiver of Notice:
 
Whenever any notice is required by these By-Laws to be given, personal notice is not meant unless expressly so stated, and any notice so required shall be deemed to be sufficient if given by depositing the same in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the person entitled thereto at his address as it appears
 
on the records of the Corporation, and such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the date of such mailing. Stockholders not entitled to vote shall not be entitled to receive notice of any meetings except as otherwise provided by statute.
 
Whenever any notice whatever is required to be given under the provisions of any law, or under the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or these By-Laws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto.
 
Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders, any notice to stockholders given by the Corporation under any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these By-laws shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the stockholder to whom the notice is given. Any such consent shall be revocable by the stockholder by written notice to the Corporation. Notice given pursuant to this Article VI, Section 10 shall be deemed given: (i) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (ii) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (iii) if by a posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice; and (iv)
 
if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the stockholder.
 
An affidavit of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or of the transfer agent or other agent of the Corporation that the notice has been given in writing or by a form of electronic transmission shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
 
 
Except as otherwise provided in Articles II and III of these By-Laws, these By-Laws may be altered or repealed and By-Laws may be adopted at any annual meeting of the stockholders, or at any special meeting thereof if notice of the proposed alteration or repeal or By-Law or By-Laws to be adopted is contained in the notice of such special meeting, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the stock issued and out-standing and entitled to vote thereat, or by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors, at any regular meeting of the Board of Directors, or at a special meeting of the Board of Directors, if notice of the proposed alteration or repeal, or By-Law or By-Laws to be adopted, is contained in the notice of such special meeting.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
SECTION 1. GENERAL PURPOSE OF PLAN; DEFINITIONS.
 
The name of this plan is the Torchmark Corporation 2005 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The purpose of the Plan is to enable Torchmark Corporation (the "Company") and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates to attract and retain directors who contribute to the Company's success by their ability, ingenuity and industry, and to enable such directors to participate in the long-term success and growth of the Company through an equity interest in the Company. This Plan replaces those parts of the Company's 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Prior Plan") which provide benefits to and deferral opportunities to Non-Employee Directors of the Company. Compensation deferred and options and other rights granted under the Prior Plan before the effective date of this Plan shall continue to be governed by the terms of the Prior Plan, but no additional Compensation shall be deferred by and no additional options or rights shall be granted to Non-Employee Directors under the Prior Plan after the effective date of this Plan.
 
For purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall be defined as set forth below:
 
"Affiliate" means any corporation (other than a Subsidiary), partnership, joint venture or any other entity in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least a 10 percent beneficial ownership interest.
 
"Annual Compensation" means the annual cash retainer and meeting fees payable by the Company to a Non-Employee Director for services as a director (and, if applicable, as the member or chairman of a committee of the Board) of the Company, as such amount may be changed from time to time. For purposes of an election to receive Stock Options under the Plan in lieu of Annual Compensation, meeting fees will be estimated and deemed to be earned at the beginning of the year for all scheduled meetings during the year, whether or not the Optionee later attends such meetings.
 
"Beneficiary" means any person or persons designated by a Participant, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee or Plan Administrator, to receive benefits hereunder in the event of the Participant's death. If any Participant shall fail to designate a Beneficiary or shall designate a Beneficiary who shall fail to survive the Participant, the Beneficiary shall be the Participant's surviving spouse, or, if none, the Participant's surviving descendants (who shall take per stirpes) and if there are no surviving descendants, the Beneficiary shall be the Participant's estate.
 
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
"Business Day" shall mean a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or any national securities exchange or over-the-counter market on which the Stock is traded is open for business.
 
"Cause" means a Participant's willful misconduct or dishonesty, any of which is directly and materially harmful to the business or reputation of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate.
 
"Change in Control" means the happening of any of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
"Change of Control Price" means the highest price per share paid in any transaction reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape, or paid or offered in any transaction related to a Change of Control of the Company at any time during the sixty day period immediately prior to the Change of Control.
 
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor thereto.
 
"Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
"Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board. If at any time no Committee shall be in office, then the functions of the Committee specified in the Plan shall be exercised by the Board.
 
"Company" means Torchmark Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware (or any successor corporation).
 
"Election Date" means the date by which a Non-Employee Director must submit a valid Election Form to the Plan Administrator in order to participate under Section 6 of the Plan for a calendar year. For each calendar year, the Election Date is December 31 of the preceding calendar year; provided, however, that the Election Date for a newly eligible Participant shall be the 30th day following the date on which such individual becomes a Non-Employee Director.
 
"Election Form" means an Election Form for Annual Compensation, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, pursuant to which a Non-Employee Director elects to defer Annual Compensation under the Plan or to convert Annual Compensation into Stock Options.
 
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any successor thereto.
 
"Fair Market Value" means, as of any given date, the closing price of the Stock on such date on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape.
 
"Interest Account" means the account established by the Company for each Non-Employee Director for Annual Compensation deferred pursuant to the Plan and which shall be credited with interest on the last day of each calendar quarter (or such other day as determined by Plan Administrator).
 
"Non-Employee Director" means a director of the Company who is not an employee of the Company or of any Subsidiary or Affiliate (as determined by the Committee).
 
"Optionee" means a Non-Employee Director to whom a Stock Option has been granted or, in the event of such individual's death prior to the expiration of a Stock Option, such individual's Beneficiary.
 
"Participant" means any Non-Employee Director who has been awarded a Stock Option under the Plan.
 
"Plan" means this 2005 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan.
 
"Plan Administrator" means one or more agents to whom the Board shall have delegated administrative duties under the Plan or the Committee if no such delegation shall have occurred.
 
"Stock" means the common stock of the Company.
 
"Stock Option" means any option to purchase shares of Stock granted pursuant to Section 5 or 6.
 
"Stock Option Award Notice" means a written award notice to a Non-Employee Director from the Company evidencing a Stock Option.
 
"Subsidiary" means any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company if each of the corporations (other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain) owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in the chain.
 
SECTION 2. ADMINISTRATION.
 
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee which shall at all times comply with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act. All members of the Committee shall also be "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, and the Committee shall be independent within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
 
The Committee shall have the discretionary authority to adopt, alter and repeal such administrative rules, guidelines and practices governing the Plan as it shall, from time to time, deem advisable; to construe and interpret the terms and provisions of the Plan and any award issued under the Plan (and any agreements relating thereto); and to otherwise supervise the administration of the Plan. The Committee will not have the authority to award Stock Options pursuant to Section 5(b) of the Plan; only the Board shall have this authority.
 
The Committee may delegate administrative duties under the Plan to one or more agents as it shall deem necessary or advisable. No member of the Committee or the Board or the Plan Administrator shall be personally liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Option or to any settlement of any dispute between a Non-Employee Director and the Company.
 
All decisions made by the Board or the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final and binding on all persons, including the Company and Participants.
 
SECTION 3. STOCK SUBJECT TO PLAN
 
The total number of shares of Stock reserved and available for distribution under the Plan shall be 375,000, which may consist, in whole, or in part, of authorized and unissued shares or treasury shares.
 
In the event of any sale of assets, merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, Stock dividend, or other change in corporate structure affecting the Stock, an equitable substitution or adjustment shall be made in (i) the aggregate number of shares reserved for issuance under the Plan, (ii) the number and option price of shares subject to outstanding Stock Options granted under the Plan, and (iii) the number of Stock Options to be granted each year pursuant to Section 5, as may be determined to be appropriate by the Committee, in its sole discretion, provided that the number of shares subject to any award shall always be a whole number.
 
SECTION 4. ELIGIBILITY.
 
All Non-Employee Directors are eligible to participate in the Plan.
 
SECTION 5. STOCK OPTIONS.
 
Stock Options granted under the Plan are non-qualified Stock Options. Such Stock Options will be granted pursuant to the pre-established formula contained herein or may, in the sole discretion of the entire Board, be granted as to such number of shares and upon such terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Board.
 
Stock Options granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written agreement in such form as the Committee shall from time to time approve, which agreements shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 6. DEFERRED COMPENSATION OR DEFERRED COMPENSATION STOCK OPTIONS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A = the dollar amount which the Non-Employee Director has elected to convert to Stock Options; and
 
B = the per share value of a Stock Option on the Option Grant Date, as determined by the Committee using any recognized option valuation model selected by the Board in its discretion (such value to be expressed as a percentage of the Fair Market Value per Share on the Option Grant Date).
 
In determining the number of shares subject to a Stock Option, (A) the Board may designate the assumptions to be used in the selected option valuation model, and (B) any fraction of a Share will be rounded up to the next whole number of Shares.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 7. AMENDMENTS AND TERMINATION.
 
The Board may amend, alter, or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration, or discontinuation shall be made which would impair the right of a Participant or an Optionee under a Stock Option heretofore granted, without the Participant's or Optionee's consent.
 
Amendments may be made without stockholder approval except as required to satisfy Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, Section 162(m) of the Code, stock exchange listing requirements, or other regulatory requirements.
 
The Board may amend the terms of any Stock Option (other than a Stock Option granted pursuant to Section 5(a) hereof) theretofore granted, prospectively or retroactively; provided, however, (a) no such amendment shall impair the rights of any holder without his/her consent; (b) the original term of a Stock Option may not be extended without prior approval of the stockholders of the Company; and (c) the exercise price of a Stock Option may not be reduced, directly or indirectly, without prior approval of the stockholders of the Company.
 
SECTION 8. UNFUNDED STATUS OF PLAN.
 
The Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant or Optionee by the Company, nothing set forth herein shall give any such Participant or Optionee any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company. In its sole discretion, the Committee may authorize the creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations created under the Plan to deliver Stock or payments in lieu of or with respect to awards hereunder, provided, however, that the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent with the unfunded status of the Plan.
 
SECTION 9. CHANGE OF CONTROL.
 
In the event of a "Change of Control," unless otherwise determined by the Board in writing at or after grant, but prior to the occurrence of such Change of Control:
 
 
 
SECTION 10. LIMITATIONS ON PAYMENTS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this subsection (c), the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forego any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option, either direct the Participant to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Participant agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administration tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Participant harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of the contest; provided further, that if the Company directs the Participant to pay any claim and sue for a refund, the Company shall advance the amount of the payment to the Participant, on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and hold the Participant harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties with respect thereto) imposed with respect to the advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to the advance.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 11. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 12. EFFECTIVE DATE OF PLAN.
 
The Plan shall be effective on the date it is approved by a majority vote of the Company's stockholders.
 
SECTION 13. TERM OF PLAN.
 
No Stock Option shall be granted pursuant to the Plan on or after January 1, 2015, but awards theretofore granted may extend beyond that date.
 
 
 
 
The following constitutes the irrevocable election of the undersigned under the Torchmark Corporation 2005 Director Incentive Plan (the "Plan") with respect to the undersigned's annual cash retainer and meeting fees payable to the undersigned by Torchmark Corporation (the "Company") for services as a director (and, if applicable, as a member or chairman of a committee of the Board of Directors) of the Company during the calendar year identified above ("Next Year's Annual Compensation"). I understand that I may elect an Interest Account Deferral or a Stock Option Deferral, but not a combination of the two. To the extent that my deferral is less than 100% of my Annual Compensation, the balance of my Annual Compensation will be paid to me in cash. I further understand that my Annual Compensation, for purposes of Deferred Compensation Stock Options, will be estimated for the year, that the conversion to Stock Options will occur at the beginning of the year, and that, to the extent my actual Annual Compensation exceeds my estimated Annual Compensation, such excess will be paid to me in cash. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meanings assigned such terms in the Plan.
 
 
                 (Initials) I hereby irrevocably elect to defer into my Interest Account under the Plan                 % [indicate any percentage from 50% to 100%, in 10% increments] of my next year's Annual Compensation until the earliest of (a) December 31 of the fifth year after the year identified above, (b) the first Business Day of the fourth month after my death, or (c) my termination as a director of the Company for any reason other than my death (the "Payment Date"). Any amount remaining in my Interest Account on the Payment Date will be paid to me or my Beneficiary [please check ONE box]
in cash in a lump sum on the Payment Date, or
in approximately equal installments over              months [up to 120 months] beginning on the Payment Date; provided, however, that in the event of my death during such payout period, the remaining balance shall be payable to my Beneficiary in a lump sum on the first Business Day of the fourth month after my death.
 
 
                 (Initials) I hereby irrevocably elect to convert, as of the date hereof,             % [indicate any percentage from 50% to 100%, in 10% increments] of my Annual Compensation for the year identified above to Options to purchase common stock of the Company in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Plan.
 
Executed this                  day of                     , 2004.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
1.1. . The purpose of the Torchmark Corporation 2005 Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to promote the success, and enhance the value, of Torchmark Corporation (the "Company"), by linking the personal interests of employees, officers and consultants of the Company or any Affiliate (as defined below) to those of Company shareholders and by providing such persons with an incentive for outstanding performance. The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of employees, officers and consultants upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of the Company's operation is largely dependent. Accordingly, the Plan permits the grant of incentive awards from time to time to selected employees, officers and consultants of the Company and its Affiliates.
GENERAL
 
 
2.1. . When a word or phrase appears in this Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and the word or phrase does not commence a sentence, the word or phrase shall generally be given the meaning ascribed to it in this Section or in Section 1.1 unless a clearly different meaning is required by the context. The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:
DEFINITIONS
 
(a) "Affiliate" means (i) any Subsidiary or Parent, or (ii) an entity that directly or through one or more intermediaries controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Company, as determined by the Committee.
 
(b) "Award" means any Option or Restricted Stock Award granted to a Participant under the Plan.
 
(b) "Award Certificate" means a written document, in such form as the Committee prescribes from time to time, setting forth the terms and conditions of an Award. Award Certificates may be in the form of individual award agreements or certificates or a program document describing the terms and provisions of an Awards or series of Awards under the Plan.
 
(c) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
(d) "Cause" as a reason for a Participant's termination of employment shall have the meaning assigned such term in the employment, severance or similar agreement, if any, between such Participant and the Company or an Affiliate, provided, however that if there is no such employment, severance or similar agreement in which such term is defined, and unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Certificate, "Cause" shall mean any of the following acts by the Participant, as determined by the Committee or the Board: gross neglect of duty, prolonged absence from duty without the consent of the Company, intentionally engaging in any activity that is in conflict with or adverse to the business or other interests of the Company, or willful misconduct, misfeasance or malfeasance of duty which is reasonably determined to be detrimental to the Company.
 
(e) "Change in Control" means and includes the occurrence of any one of the following events:
 
(i) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the 1934 Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act) of 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (1), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (i) any acquisition by a Person
 
who is on the Effective Date the beneficial owner of 25% or more of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, (ii) any acquisition directly from the Company, (iii) any acquisition by the Company, (iv) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, or (v) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection (3) of this definition; or
 
(ii) Individuals who, as of the Effective Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or
 
(iii) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, and (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(iv) approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for any Awards that may at any time constitute a nonqualified deferred compensation plan within the meaning of Section 409A(d) of the Code, Change in Control shall have the same meaning as set forth in any regulations, revenue procedure or revenue rulings issued by the Secretary of the United States Treasury applicable to such plans.
 
(f) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and includes a reference to the underlying final regulations.
 
(g) "Committee" means the committee of the Board described in Article 4.
 
(h) "Company" means Torchmark Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation.
 
(i) "Continuous Status as a Participant" means the absence of any interruption or termination of service as an employee, officer or consultant of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable; provided, however, that for purposes of an Incentive Stock Option, "Continuous Status as a Participant" means the absence of any interruption or termination of service as an employee of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, as applicable, pursuant to applicable tax regulations. Continuous Status as a Participant shall continue to the
 
extent provided in a written severance or employment agreement during any period for which severance compensation payments are made to an employee, officer or consultant and shall not be considered interrupted in the case of any short-term disability or leave of absence authorized in writing by the Company prior to its commencement; provided, however, that for purposes of Incentive Stock Options, no such leave may exceed 90 days, unless reemployment upon expiration of such leave is guaranteed by statute or contract. If reemployment upon expiration of a leave of absence approved by the Company is not so guaranteed, on the 91st day of such leave any Incentive Stock Option held by the Participant shall cease to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option and shall be treated for tax purposes as a Nonstatutory Stock Option. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for any Awards that constitute a nonqualified deferred compensation plan within the meaning of Section 409A(d) of the Code, Continuous Status as a Participant shall mean the absence of any "separation from service" or similar concept as set forth in any regulations, revenue procedure or revenue rulings issued by the Secretary of the United States Treasury applicable to such plans.
 
(j) "Covered Employee" means a covered employee as defined in Code Section 162(m)(3).
 
(k) "Disability" or "Disabled" has the same meaning as provided in the long-term disability plan or policy maintained by the Company or if applicable, most recently maintained, by the Company or if applicable, an Affiliate, for the Participant, whether or not such Participant actually receives disability benefits under such plan or policy. If no long-term disability plan or policy was ever maintained on behalf of Participant or if the determination of Disability relates to an Incentive Stock Option, Disability means Permanent and Total Disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code. In the event of a dispute, the determination whether a Participant is Disabled will be made by the Committee and may be supported by the advice of a physician competent in the area to which such Disability relates.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for any Awards that may at any time constitute a nonqualified deferred compensation plan within the meaning of Section 409A(d) of the Code, Disability shall have the same meaning as set forth in any regulations, revenue procedure or revenue rulings issued by the Secretary of the United States Treasury applicable to such plans.
 
(l) "Effective Date" has the meaning assigned such term in Section 3.1.
 
(m) "Eligible Participant" means an employee, officer or consultant of the Company or any Affiliate.
 
(n) "Exchange" means the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or, if applicable, the Nasdaq National Market on which the Stock may from time to time be listed or traded.
 
(o) "Fair Market Value", on any date, means (i) if the Stock is listed on a securities exchange or is traded over the Nasdaq National Market, the closing sales price on such exchange or over such system on such date or, in the absence of reported sales on such date, the closing sales price on the immediately preceding date on which sales were reported, or (ii) if the Stock is not listed on a securities exchange or traded over the Nasdaq National Market, the mean between the bid and offered prices as quoted by Nasdaq for such date, provided that if it is determined that the fair market value is not properly reflected by such Nasdaq quotations, Fair Market Value will be determined by such other method as the Committee determines in good faith to be reasonable.
 
(p) "Good Reason" has the meaning assigned such term in the employment, severance or similar agreement, if any, between a Participant and the Company or an Affiliate, provided, however that if there is no such employment, severance or similar agreement in which such term is defined, and unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Certificate, "Good Reason" shall mean a reduction by the Company or an Affiliate in the Participant's base salary (other than an overall reduction in salaries that affects substantially all full-time employees of the Company and its Affiliates).
 
(q) "Grant Date" of an Award means the first date on which all necessary corporate action has been taken to approve the grant of the Award as provided in the Plan, or such later date as is determined and specified as part of that authorization process. Notice of the grant shall be provided to the grantee within a reasonable time after the Grant Date.
 
(r) "Incentive Stock Option" means an Option that is intended to be an incentive stock option and meets the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
 
(s) "Nonstatutory Stock Option" means an Option that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
 
(t) "Option" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 7 of the Plan to purchase Stock at a specified price during specified time periods. An Option may be either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
 
(u) "Parent" means a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity which owns or beneficially owns a majority of the outstanding voting stock or voting power of the Company. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to an Incentive Stock Option, Parent shall have the meaning set forth in Section 424(e) of the Code.
 
(v) "Participant" means a person who, as an employee, officer or consultant of the Company or any Affiliate, has been granted an Award under the Plan; provided that in the case of the death of a Participant, the term "Participant" refers to a beneficiary designated pursuant to Section 9.5 or the legal guardian or other legal representative acting in a fiduciary capacity on behalf of the Participant under applicable state law and court supervision.
 
(w) "Person" means any individual, entity or group, within the meaning of Section 3(a)(9) of the 1934 Act and as used in Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the 1934 Act.
 
(x) "Plan" means this Torchmark Corporation 2005 Incentive Plan, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
 
(y) "Restricted Stock Award" means Stock granted to a Participant under Article 8 that is subject to certain restrictions and to risk of forfeiture.
 
(z) "Retirement" means a Participant's termination of employment with the Company or an Affiliate with the Committee's approval after attaining any normal or early retirement age specified in any pension, profit sharing or other retirement program sponsored by the Company, or, in the event of the inapplicability thereof with respect to the Participant in question, as determined by the Committee in its reasonable judgment.
 
(aa) "Section 162(m) Exemption" means the exemption from the limitation on deductibility imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code that is set forth in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
 
(bb) "Shares" means shares of the Company's Stock. If there has been an adjustment or substitution pursuant to Section 10.1, the term "Shares" shall also include any shares of stock or other securities that are substituted for Shares or into which Shares are adjusted pursuant to Section 10.1.
 
(cc) "Stock" means the $.1.00 par value common stock of the Company and such other securities of the Company as may be substituted for Stock pursuant to Article 10.
 
(dd) "Subsidiary" means any corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock or voting power is beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the Company. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to an Incentive Stock Option, Subsidiary shall have the meaning set forth in Section 424(f) of the Code.
 
(ee) "1933 Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
 
(ff) "1934 Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
 
 
3.1. . The Plan shall be effective as of the date it is approved by the shareholders of the Company (the "Effective Date").
EFFECTIVE DATE
 
3.2. . The Plan shall terminate on the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date unless earlier terminated as provided herein. The termination of the Plan on such date shall not affect the validity of any Award outstanding on the date of termination.
TERMINATION OF PLAN
 
 
4.1. . The Plan shall be administered by a Committee appointed by the Board (which Committee shall consist of at least two directors) or, at the discretion of the Board from time to time, the Plan may be administered by the Board. It is intended that at least two of the directors appointed to serve on the Committee shall be "non-employee directors" (within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act) and "outside directors" (within the meaning of Code Section 162(m)) and that any such members of the Committee who do not so qualify shall abstain from participating in any decision to make or administer Awards that are made to Eligible Participants who at the time of consideration for such Award (i) are persons subject to the short-swing profit rules of Section 16 of the 1934 Act, or (ii) are reasonably anticipated to become Covered Employees during the term of the Award. However, the mere fact that a Committee member shall fail to qualify under either of the foregoing requirements or shall fail to abstain from such action shall not invalidate any Award made by the Committee which Award is otherwise validly made under the Plan. The members of the Committee shall be appointed by, and may be changed at any time and from time to time in the discretion of, the Board. The Board may reserve to itself any or all of the authority and responsibility of the Committee under the Plan or may act as administrator of the Plan for any and all purposes. To the extent the Board has reserved any authority and responsibility or during any time that the Board is acting as administrator of the Plan, it shall have all the powers of the Committee hereunder, and any reference herein to the Committee (other than in this Section 4.1) shall include the Board. To the extent any action of the Board under the Plan conflicts with actions taken by the Committee, the actions of the Board shall control.
COMMITTEE
 
4.2. . For purposes of administering the Plan, the Committee may from time to time adopt rules, regulations, guidelines and procedures for carrying out the provisions and purposes of the Plan and make such other determinations, not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee may deem appropriate. The Committee's interpretation of the Plan, any Awards granted under the Plan, any Award Certificate and all decisions and determinations by the Committee with respect to the Plan are final, binding, and conclusive on all parties. Each member of the Committee is entitled to, in good faith, rely or act upon any report or other information furnished to that member by any officer or other employee of the Company or any Affiliate, the Company's or an Affiliate's independent certified public accountants, Company counsel or any executive compensation consultant or other professional retained by the Company to assist in the administration of the Plan.
ACTION AND INTERPRETATIONS BY THE COMMITTEE
 
4.3. . Except as provided below, the Committee has the exclusive power, authority and discretion to:
AUTHORITY OF COMMITTEE
 
(a) Grant Awards;
 
(b) Designate Participants;
 
(c) Determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant;
 
(d) Determine the number of Awards to be granted and the number of Shares or dollar amount to which an Award will relate;
 
(e) Determine the terms and conditions of any Award granted under the Plan, including but not limited to, the exercise price, grant price, or purchase price, any restrictions or limitations on the Award, any schedule for lapse of forfeiture restrictions or restrictions on the exercisability of an Award, and accelerations or waivers thereof, based in each case on such considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion determines;
 
(f) Determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances an Award may be settled in, or the exercise price of an Award may be paid in, cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property, or an Award may be canceled, forfeited, or surrendered;
 
(g) Prescribe the form of each Award Certificate, which need not be identical for each Participant;
 
(h) Decide all other matters that must be determined in connection with an Award;
 
(i) Establish, adopt or revise any rules, regulations, guidelines or procedures as it may deem necessary or advisable to administer the Plan;
 
(j) Make all other decisions and determinations that may be required under the Plan or as the Committee deems necessary or advisable to administer the Plan;
 
(k) Amend the Plan or any Award Certificate as provided herein; and
 
(l) Adopt such modifications, procedures, and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions in which the Company or any Affiliate may operate, in order to assure the viability of the benefits of Awards granted to participants located in such other jurisdictions and to meet the objectives of the Plan.
 
Notwithstanding the above, the Board or the Committee may, by resolution, expressly delegate to a special committee, consisting of one or more directors who are also officers of the Company, the authority, within specified parameters, to (i) designate Eligible Participants to be recipients of Awards under the Plan, and (ii) to determine the number of such Awards to be granted to any such Participants; provided that a limit on the total number or dollar value of Awards to be granted to any such Participants shall be approved in advance by the Board or the Committee and provided further that such delegation of duties and responsibilities to such special committee may not be made with respect to the grant of Awards to Eligible Participants (a) who are subject to Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act at the Grant Date, or (b) who as of the Grant Date are reasonably anticipated to be become Covered Employees during the term of the Award. The acts of such delegates shall be treated hereunder as acts of the Board and such delegates shall report regularly to the Board and the Compensation Committee regarding the delegated duties and responsibilities and any Awards so granted.
 
4.4. . Each Award shall be evidenced by an Award Certificate. Each Award Certificate shall include such provisions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as may be specified by the Committee.
AWARD CERTIFICATES
 
 
5.1. . Subject to adjustment as provided in Sections 5.2, the aggregate number of Shares reserved and available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan shall be 5,625,000. The maximum number of Shares that may be issued upon exercise of Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan shall be 1,000,000. The maximum number of Shares that may be issued as Restricted Stock under the Plan shall be 50,000.
NUMBER OF SHARES
 
5.2. To the extent that an Award is canceled, terminates, expires, is forfeited or lapses for any reason, any unissued Shares from such Award will again be available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan.
SHARE COUNTING.
 
5.3. . Any Stock distributed pursuant to an Award may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Stock, treasury Stock or Stock purchased on the open market.
STOCK DISTRIBUTED
 
5.4. . Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary, the maximum number of Shares with respect to one or more Options that may be granted during any one calendar year under the Plan to any one Participant shall be 800,000. The maximum aggregate grant with respect to Restricted Stock Awards in any one calendar year to any one Participant shall be 7,000.
LIMITATION ON AWARDS
 
 
6.1. . Awards may be granted only to Eligible Participants; except that Incentive Stock Options may be granted to only to Eligible Participants who are employees of the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary as defined in Section 424(e) and (f) of the Code.
GENERAL
 
 
7.1. . The Committee is authorized to grant Options to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
GENERAL
 
(a) . The exercise price per Share under an Option shall be determined by the Committee; provided, however, that the exercise price of an Option shall not be less than the Fair Market Value as of the Grant Date.
EXERCISE PRICE
 
(b) . The Committee shall determine the time or times at which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part, subject to Section 7.1(d). The Committee shall also determine the performance or other conditions, if any, that must be satisfied before all or part of an Option may be exercised or vested. Except under certain circumstances contemplated by Section 9.9 or as may be set forth in an Award Certificate with respect to death, Disability or Retirement of a Participant, Options granted after June 30, 2005 will not be exercisable before the expiration of one year from the Grant Date. The Committee may permit an arrangement whereby receipt of Stock upon exercise of an Option is delayed until a specified future date.
TIME AND CONDITIONS OF EXERCISE
 
(c) . The Committee shall determine the methods by which the exercise price of an Option may be paid, the form of payment, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, or other property (including "cashless exercise" arrangements), and the methods by which Shares shall be delivered or deemed to be delivered to Participants; provided, however, that if Shares are used to pay the exercise price of an Option, such Shares must have been held by the Participant for at least such period of time, if any, as necessary to avoid the recognition of an expense under generally accepted accounting principles as a result of the exercise of the Option.
PAYMENT
 
(d) . In no event may any Option be exercisable for more than seven years from the Grant Date.
EXERCISE TERM
 
7.2. . The terms of any Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan must comply with the following additional rules:
INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS
 
(a) . The exercise price of an Incentive Stock Option shall not be less than the Fair Market Value as of the Grant Date.
EXERCISE PRICE
 
(b) . Subject to any earlier termination provision contained in the Award Certificate, an Incentive Stock Option shall lapse upon the earliest of the following circumstances; provided,
LAPSE OF OPTION
 
however, that the Committee may, prior to the lapse of the Incentive Stock Option under the circumstances described in subsections (3), (4) or (5) below, provide in writing that the Option will extend until a later date, but if an Option is so extended and is exercised after the dates specified in subsections (3) and (4) below, it will automatically become a Nonstatutory Stock Option:
 
(1) The expiration date set forth in the Award Certificate.
 
(2) The seventh anniversary of the Grant Date.
 
(3) Three months after termination of the Participant's Continuous Status as a Participant for any reason other than the Participant's Disability or death.
 
(4) One year after the Participant's Continuous Status as a Participant by reason of the Participant's Disability.
 
(5) One year after the Participant's death if the Participant dies while employed, or during the three-month period described in paragraph (3) or during the one-year period described in paragraph (4) and before the Option otherwise lapses.
 
Unless the exercisability of the Incentive Stock Option is accelerated as provided in Article 9, if a Participant exercises an Option after termination of employment, the Option may be exercised only with respect to the Shares that were otherwise vested on the Participant's termination of employment. Upon the Participant's death, any exercisable Incentive Stock Options may be exercised by the Participant's beneficiary, determined in accordance with Section 9.5.
 
(c) . The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the Grant Date) of all Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are first exercisable by a Participant in any calendar year may not exceed $100,000.00.
INDIVIDUAL DOLLAR LIMITATION
 
(d) . No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to any individual who, at the Grant Date, owns stock possessing more than ten percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary unless the exercise price per share of such Option is at least 110% of the Fair Market Value per Share at the Grant Date and the Option expires no later than five years after the Grant Date.
TEN PERCENT OWNERS
 
(e) . No Incentive Stock Option may be granted pursuant to the Plan after the day immediately prior to the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date of the Plan, or the termination of the Plan, if earlier.
EXPIRATION OF AUTHORITY TO GRANT INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS
 
(f) . During a Participant's lifetime, an Incentive Stock Option may be exercised only by the Participant or, in the case of the Participant's Disability, by the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
RIGHT TO EXERCISE
 
(g) . The Committee may not grant an Incentive Stock Option to a person who is not at the Grant Date an employee of the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary.
ELIGIBLE GRANTEES
 
 
8.1 . The Committee is authorized to make Awards of Restricted Stock to Participants in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee, subject to Section 5.4
GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK
 
8.2. . Restricted Stock shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability and other restrictions as the Committee may impose (including, without limitation,
ISSUANCE AND RESTRICTIONS
 
limitations on the right to vote Restricted Stock or the right to receive dividends on the Restricted Stock) covering a period of time specified by the Committee (the "Restricted Period"). These restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, under such circumstances, in such installments, upon the satisfaction of performance goals or otherwise, as the Committee determines at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter. Except as otherwise provided in an Award Certificate or any special Plan document governing an Award, the Participant shall have all of the rights of a shareholder with respect to the Restricted Stock.
 
8.3. . Except for certain limited situations (including the death, Disability or Retirement of the Participant or a Change in Control referred to in Section 9.8), Restricted Stock Awards subject solely to continued employment restrictions shall have a Restriction Period of not less than five years from the Grant Date (but permitting pro-rata vesting over such time). Except as otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter, immediately after termination of Continuous Status as a Participant during the applicable Restriction Period or upon failure to satisfy a performance goal during the applicable Restriction Period, Restricted Stock that is at that time subject to restrictions shall be forfeited.
FORFEITURE
 
8.4. . Shares of Restricted Stock shall be delivered to the Participant at the time of grant either by book-entry registration or by delivering to the Participant, or a custodian or escrow agent (including, without limitation, the Company or one or more of its employees) designated by the Committee, a stock certificate or certificates registered in the name of the Participant. If physical certificates representing shares of Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the Participant, such certificates must bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock.
DELIVERY OF RESTRICTED STOCK
 
 
9.1. . Awards granted under the Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with, any other Award granted under the Plan. Subject to Section 9.2, Awards granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards may be granted either at the same time as or at a different time from the grant of such other Awards.
STAND-ALONE AND TANDEM AWARDS
 
9.2. . The term of each Award shall be for the period as determined by the Committee, provided that in no event shall the term of any Stock Option exceed a period of seven years from its Grant Date (or, if Section 7.2(d) applies, five years from its Grant Date).
TERM OF AWARD
 
9.3. . Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable law or Award Certificate, payments or transfers to be made by the Company or an Affiliate on the grant or exercise of an Award may be made in such form as the Committee determines at or after the Grant Date, including without limitation, cash, Stock, or other property, or any combination, and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis, in each case determined in accordance with rules adopted by, and at the discretion of, the Committee.
FORM OF PAYMENT FOR AWARDS
 
9.4. . No right or interest of a Participant in any unexercised or restricted Award may be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to or in favor of any party other than the Company or an Affiliate, or shall be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of such Participant to any other party other than the Company or an Affiliate. No unexercised or restricted Award shall be assignable or transferable by a Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or, except in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, pursuant to a domestic relations order that would satisfy Section 414(p)(1)(A) of the Code if such Section applied
LIMITS ON TRANSFER
 
to an Award under the Plan; provided, however, that the Committee may (but need not) permit other transfers where there is no consideration whatsoever to any party for said transfer and the Committee concludes that such transferability (i) does not result in accelerated taxation, (ii) does not cause any Option intended to be an Incentive Stock Option to fail to be described in Code Section 422(b), and (iii) is otherwise appropriate and desirable, taking into account any factors deemed relevant, including without limitation, state or federal tax or securities laws applicable to transferable Awards.
 
9.5. . Notwithstanding Section 9.4, a Participant may, in the manner determined by the Committee, designate a beneficiary to exercise the rights of the Participant and to receive any distribution with respect to any Award upon the Participant's death. A beneficiary, legal guardian, legal representative, or other person claiming any rights under the Plan is subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan and any Award Certificate applicable to the Participant, except to the extent the Plan and Award Certificate otherwise provide, and to any additional restrictions deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee. If no beneficiary has been designated or survives the Participant, payment shall be made to the Participant's estate. Subject to the foregoing, a beneficiary designation may be changed or revoked by a Participant at any time provided the change or revocation is filed with the Company.
BENEFICIARIES
 
9.6. . All Stock issuable under the Plan is subject to any stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee deems necessary or advisable to comply with federal or state securities laws, rules and regulations and the rules of any national securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Stock is listed, quoted, or traded. The Committee may place legends on any Stock certificate or issue instructions to the transfer agent to reference restrictions applicable to the Stock.
STOCK CERTIFICATES
 
9.7. . Except as otherwise provided in the Award Certificate or any special Plan document governing an Award, upon the Participant's death or Disability during his or her Continuous Status as a Participant, (i) all of such Participant's outstanding Options shall become fully exercisable and (ii) all time-based vesting restrictions on the Participant's outstanding Awards shall lapse. To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to exceed the dollar limitation set forth in Section 7.2(c), the excess Options shall be deemed to be Nonstatutory Stock Options.
ACCELERATION UPON DEATH OR DISABILITY
 
9.8. . Except as otherwise provided in the Award Certificate or any special Plan document governing an Award if a Participant's employment is terminated without Cause or the Participant resigns for Good Reason within one year after the effective date of a Change in Control, (i) all outstanding Options shall become fully exercisable and (ii) all time-based vesting restrictions on outstanding Awards shall lapse.
ACCELERATION UPON A CHANGE IN CONTROL
 
9.9. . Regardless of whether an event has occurred as described in Section 9.7 or 9.8 above, the Committee may in its sole discretion at any time determine that, upon the death, Disability, Retirement or termination of service of a Participant, all or a portion of such Participant's Options shall become fully or partially exercisable, and/or that all or a part of the restrictions on all or a portion of the Participant's outstanding Awards shall lapse as of such date as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, declare. The Committee may discriminate among Participants and among Awards granted to a Participant in exercising its discretion pursuant to this Section 9.9.
DISCRETIONARY ACCELERATION
 
9.10. . Whether military, government or other service or other leave of absence shall constitute a termination of employment shall be determined in each case by the Committee at its discretion, and any determination by the Committee shall be final and conclusive. A Participant's Continuous Status as a Participant shall not be deemed to terminate (i) in a circumstance in which a Participant transfers from the Company to an Affiliate, transfers from an Affiliate to the Company, or transfers from one Affiliate to another Affiliate, or (ii) in the discretion of the Committee as specified at or prior to such occurrence, in the case of a spin-off, sale or disposition of the Participant's employer from the Company or any Affiliate. To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to extend beyond three months from the date a
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
 
Participant is deemed to be an employee of the Company, a Parent or Subsidiary for purposes of Sections 424(e) and 424(f) of the Code, the Options held by such Participant shall be deemed to be Nonstatutory Stock Options.
 
9.11. . The Committee may specify in an Award Certificate that the Participant's rights and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events may include, but are not limited to, termination of employment for cause, violation of material Company or Affiliate policies, breach of non-competition, confidentiality or other restrictive covenants that may apply to the Participant, or other conduct by the Participant that is detrimental to the business or reputation of the Company or any Affiliate.
FORFEITURE EVENTS
 
9.12. . The Committee may grant Awards under the Plan in substitution for stock and stock-based awards held by employees of another entity who become employees of the Company or an Affiliate as a result of a merger or consolidation of the former employing entity with the Company or an Affiliate or the acquisition by the Company or an Affiliate of property or stock of the former employing corporation. The Committee may direct that the substitute awards be granted on such terms and conditions as the Committee considers appropriate in the circumstances.
SUBSTITUTE AWARDS
 
 
10.1. . In the event of a corporate event or transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination or exchange of shares), the authorization limits under Section 5.1 and 5.4 shall be adjusted proportionately, and the Committee may adjust the Plan and Awards to preserve the benefits or potential benefits of the Awards. Action by the Committee may include: (i) adjustment of the number and kind of shares which may be delivered under the Plan; (ii) adjustment of the number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Awards; (iii) adjustment of the exercise price of outstanding Awards; and (iv) any other adjustments that the Committee determines to be equitable. In addition, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide (i) that Awards will be settled in cash rather than Stock, (ii) that Awards will become immediately vested and exercisable and will expire after a designated period of time to the extent not then exercised, (iii) that Awards will be assumed by another party to a transaction or otherwise be equitably converted or substituted in connection with such transaction, (iv) that outstanding Awards may be settled by payment in cash or cash equivalents equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock, as of a specified date associated with the transaction, over the exercise price of the Award, or (v) any combination of the foregoing. The Committee's determination need not be uniform and may be different for different Participants whether or not such Participants are similarly situated. Without limiting the foregoing, in the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Stock (stock-split), a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, or a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Stock into a lesser number of Shares, the authorization limits under Section 5.1 and 5.4 shall automatically be adjusted proportionately, and the Shares then subject to each Award shall automatically be adjusted proportionately without any change in the aggregate purchase price therefor. To the extent that any adjustments made pursuant to this Article 10 cause Incentive Stock Options to cease to qualify as Incentive Stock Options, such Options shall be deemed to be Nonstatutory Stock Options.
GENERAL
 
 
11.1. .
AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION
 
(a) The Board or the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, amend, modify or terminate the Plan without shareholder approval; provided, however, that if an amendment to the Plan would, in the
 
reasonable opinion of the Board or the Committee, either (i) materially increase the benefits accruing to Participants, (ii) materially increase the number of Shares available under the Plan, (iii) expand the types of awards under the Plan, (iv) materially expand the class of participants eligible to participate in the Plan, (v) materially extend the term of the Plan, or (vi) otherwise constitute a material change requiring shareholder approval under applicable laws, policies or regulations or the applicable listing or other requirements of an Exchange, then such amendment shall be subject to shareholder approval; and provided, further, that the Board or Committee may condition any other amendment or modification on the approval of shareholders of the Company for any reason, including by reason of such approval being necessary or deemed advisable to (i) permit Awards made hereunder to be exempt from liability under Section 16(b) of the 1934 Act, (ii) to comply with the listing or other requirements of an Exchange, or (iii) to satisfy any other tax, securities or other applicable laws, policies or regulations.
 
(b) No termination, amendment, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant affected thereby. An outstanding Award shall not be deemed to be "adversely affected" by a Plan amendment if such amendment would not reduce or diminish the value of such Award determined as if the Award had been exercised, vested or otherwise settled on the date of such amendment (with the per-share value of an Option for this purpose being calculated as the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value as of the date of such amendment over the exercise or base price of such Award).
 
11.2. . At any time and from time to time, the Committee may amend, modify or terminate any outstanding Award without approval of the Participant; provided, however:
AWARDS PREVIOUSLY GRANTED
 
(a) Subject to the terms of the applicable Award Certificate, such amendment, modification or termination shall not, without the Participant's consent, reduce or diminish the value of such Award determined as if the Award had been exercised, vested or otherwise settled on the date of such amendment or termination (with the per-share value of an Option for this purpose being calculated as the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value as of the date of such amendment or termination over the exercise or base price of such Award);
 
(b) The original term of an Option may not be extended without the prior approval of the shareholders of the Company; and
 
(c) Except as otherwise provided in Article 10, the exercise price of an Option may not be reduced, directly or indirectly, without the prior approval of the shareholders of the Company.
 
 
12.1. . No Participant or any Eligible Participant shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan. Neither the Company, its Affiliates nor the Committee is obligated to treat Participants or Eligible Participants uniformly, and determinations made under the Plan may be made by the Committee selectively among Eligible Participants who receive, or are eligible to receive, Awards (whether or not such Eligible Participants are similarly situated).
NO RIGHTS TO AWARDS; NON-UNIFORM DETERMINATIONS
 
12.2. . No Award gives a Participant any of the rights of a shareholder of the Company unless and until Shares are in fact issued to such person in connection with such Award.
NO SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS
 
12.3. . The Company or any Affiliate shall have the authority and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes (including the Participant's FICA obligation) required by law to be withheld with respect to any exercise, lapse of restriction or other taxable event arising as a result of the Plan or an Award. If Shares are permitted to be surrendered to the Company to satisfy tax obligations in excess of the minimum tax withholding obligation, such
WITHHOLDING
 
Shares must have been held by the Participant as fully vested shares for such period of time, if any, as necessary to avoid the recognition of an expense under generally accepted accounting principles. The Company shall have the authority to require a Participant to remit cash to the Company in lieu of the surrender of Shares for tax withholding obligations if the surrender of Shares in satisfaction of such withholding obligations would result in the Company's recognition of expense under generally accepted accounting principles. With respect to withholding required upon any taxable event under the Plan, the Committee may, at the time the Award is granted or thereafter, require or permit that any such withholding requirement be satisfied, in whole or in part, by withholding from the Award Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of withholding equal to the minimum amount (and not any greater amount) required to be withheld for tax purposes, all in accordance with such procedures as the Committee establishes.
 
12.4. . Nothing in the Plan, any Award Certificate or any other document or statement made with respect to the Plan, shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate any Participant's employment or status as an officer or consultant at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue as an employee, officer or consultant of the Company or any Affiliate, whether for the duration of a Participant's Award or otherwise.
NO RIGHT TO CONTINUED SERVICE
 
12.5. . The Plan is intended to be an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award Certificate shall give the Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company or any Affiliate. This Plan is not intended to be subject to ERISA.
UNFUNDED STATUS OF AWARDS
 
12.6. . No payment under the Plan shall be taken into account in determining any benefits under any pension, retirement, savings, profit sharing, group insurance, welfare or benefit plan of the Company or any Affiliate unless provided otherwise in such other plan.
RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BENEFITS
 
12.7. . The expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Company and its Affiliates.
EXPENSES
 
12.8. . The titles and headings of the Sections in the Plan are for convenience of reference only, and in the event of any conflict, the text of the Plan, rather than such titles or headings, shall control.
TITLES AND HEADINGS
 
12.9. . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
GENDER AND NUMBER
 
12.10. . No fractional Shares shall be issued and the Committee shall determine, in its discretion, whether cash shall be given in lieu of fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares shall be eliminated by rounding up or down.
FRACTIONAL SHARES
 
12.11. .
GOVERNMENT AND OTHER REGULATIONS
 
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, no Participant who acquires Shares pursuant to the Plan may, during any period of time that such Participant is an affiliate of the Company (within the meaning of the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the 1933 Act), sell such Shares, unless such offer and sale is made (i) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the 1933 Act, which is current and includes the Shares to be sold, or (ii) pursuant to an appropriate exemption from the registration requirement of the 1933 Act, such as that set forth in Rule 144 promulgated under the 1933 Act.
 
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if at any time the Committee shall determine that the registration, listing or qualification of the Shares covered by an Award upon any Exchange or under any foreign, federal, state or local law or practice, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory
 
body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of such Award or the purchase or receipt of Shares thereunder, no Shares may be purchased, delivered or received pursuant to such Award unless and until such registration, listing, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any condition not acceptable to the Committee. Any Participant receiving or purchasing Shares pursuant to an Award shall make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee may request to assure compliance with the foregoing or any other applicable legal requirements. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for Shares under the Plan prior to the Committee's determination that all related requirements have been fulfilled. The Company shall in no event be obligated to register any securities pursuant to the 1933 Act or applicable state or foreign law or to take any other action in order to cause the issuance and delivery of such certificates to comply with any such law, regulation or requirement.
 
12.12. . To the extent not governed by federal law, the Plan and all Award Certificates shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
GOVERNING LAW
 
12.13. . Each Award Certificate may contain such other terms and conditions as the Committee may determine; provided that such other terms and conditions are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan.
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
 
12.14. . The grant of any Award shall not in any way affect the right or power of the Company to make adjustments, reclassification or changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. The Plan shall not restrict the authority of the Company, for proper corporate purposes, to draft or assume awards, other than under the Plan, to or with respect to any person. If the Committee so directs, the Company may issue or transfer Shares to an Affiliate, for such lawful consideration as the Committee may specify, upon the condition or understanding that the Affiliate will transfer such Shares to a Participant in accordance with the terms of an Award granted to such Participant and specified by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.
NO LIMITATIONS ON RIGHTS OF COMPANY
 
12.15. . Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, or an officer of the Company to whom authority was delegated in accordance with Article 4 shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf, unless such loss, cost, liability, or expense is a result of his or her own willful misconduct or except as expressly provided by statute. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's charter or bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
INDEMNIFICATION
 
12.16. . In order to facilitate the granting of Awards to Eligible Participants who are foreign nationals or who are employed outside of the United States of America, the Committee may provide for such special terms and conditions, including without limitation substitutes for Awards, as the Committee may consider necessary or appropriate to accommodate differences in local law, tax policy or custom. The Committee may approve any supplements to, or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of this Plan as it may consider necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this Section 12.16 without thereby affecting the terms of this Plan as in effect for any other purpose, and the Secretary or other appropriate officer of the Company may certify any such documents as having been approved and adopted pursuant to properly delegated authority; provided, that no such supplements, amendments, restatements or alternative versions shall include any
FOREIGN PARTICIPANTS
 
provisions that are inconsistent with the spirit of this Plan, as then in effect. Participants subject to the laws of a foreign jurisdiction may request copies of, or the right to view, any materials that are required to be provided by the Company pursuant to the laws of such jurisdiction.
 
12.17. . Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, all notices or other communications required or permitted to be given under this Plan to the Company shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally or mailed, postage pre-paid, as follows: (i) if to the Company, at its principal business address to the attention of the Secretary; and (ii) if to any Participant, at the last address of the Participant known to the sender at the time the notice or other communication is sent.
NOTICE
 
12.18. . The rights and obligations under this Plan and any related documents shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the Company, its successors and assigns, and the Participants and their beneficiaries.
INUREMENT OF RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
 
12.19. . Except as otherwise provided herein, the costs and expenses of administering this Plan shall be borne by the Company, and shall not be charged to any Award nor to any Participant receiving an Award. Costs and expenses associated with the redemption or exercise of any Award under this Plan, including, but not limited to, commissions charged by any agent of the Company, may be charged to the Participant.
COSTS AND EXPENSES
 
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged as being the Torchmark Corporation 2005 Incentive Plan as adopted by the Board on             , 2005 and approved by the shareholders on             , 2005.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
STATE OF ALABAMA )
 
JEFFERSON COUNTY )
 
 
TORCHMARK CORPORATION, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state of Delaware (the "Company") hereby awards (the "Optionee"), the following non-qualified stock option (the "Option") upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
                                
 
 
1. . The Option is awarded pursuant to the provisions of the Torchmark Corporation 2005 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), subject to receipt of approval of the Plan by Company shareholders at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 28, 2005. This option is subject to the terms and provisions of said Plan, as it may be from time to time amended. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Plan, which is incorporated by reference herein.
Stock Incentive Plan
 
 
2. . The Optionee is hereby awarded an option to purchase from the Company (the "Shares") of the Company's common capital stock, contingent upon approval of the Plan by shareholders of the Company at the April 28, 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Number of Shares
shares
                    
 
3. . The option price for each Share subject to the Option shall be , the Fair Market Value per Share of the Stock on (the "Option Grant Date").
Option Price Per Share
$55.05
January 12, 2005
 
4. . The Option shall be and become first exercisable in full six (6) months from the Grant Date of the Option. This Agreement shall terminate on the date which is seven (7) years from the Option Grant Date, and the parties hereto shall have no further rights or obligation hereunder. For the purposes of this Agreement, "Option Period" shall mean the seven (7) year period commencing on the Grant Date.
Vesting of Options; Option Period
 
5. . The Option may be exercised to the extent then exercisable in whole or in part at any time during the Option Period, by giving written notice of exercise to the Company specifying the number of Shares to be purchased, accompanied by payment in full of the purchase price, in cash, by check or such other instrument as may be acceptable to the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Committee"). Payment in full or in part may also be made in the form of unrestricted Stock already owned by the Optionee (based on the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the date the Option is exercised). The Optionee shall have the right to dividends or other rights of a stockholder with respect to the Shares subject to the Option when the Optionee has given written notice of exercise and has paid in full for such Shares.
Method of Exercise
 
6. . The Option shall not be assignable or transferable by the Optionee otherwise than by will or by laws of descent and distribution; provided, however, that the Committee may (but need not) permit other transfers where it concludes that such transferability (i) does not result in accelerated taxation, and (ii) is otherwise appropriate and desirable, taking into account any state or federal securities laws applicable to transferable Options and such Option shall be exercisable during the Optionee's lifetime, only by the Optionee.
Transferability of Options
 
 
7. . Notwithstanding paragraph 4 above, the Option shall become immediately fully exercisable and vested upon the occurrence of a Change in Control as defined in the Plan and the value of said Option shall be settled pursuant to the provisions of Section 9 of the Plan. In no event will the Optionee's death, retirement, other termination of directorship or failure to be reelected as a director shorten the term of this Option.
Accelerated Vesting
 
 
8. . The Shares for which the Option is hereby granted shall have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange at the time the Option is exercised.
Shares Listed on the Exchange
 
9. . The Shares to be delivered upon the exercise of the Option shall be made available, at the discretion of the Company, either from authorized but previously unissued Shares or from Shares held in the treasury of the Company.
Shares May Be Newly Issued or Purchased
 
10. . In the event of any change in the number of issued Shares without new consideration to the Company such as by stock split, reorganization, exchange of shares, recapitalization, liquidation, combination, stock dividend, or other change in corporate structure affecting the Stock, on any distribution of cash or property which has a substantial impact on the value of issued Shares such adjustment shall be made in the number and price of Shares subject to the Option as may be determined to be appropriate by the Committee in its sole discretion so that the consideration payable to the Company and the value of the Option shall not be changed.
Change in Corporate Structure Affecting Shares
 
11. . The Committee shall authorize the issuance, continuation or assumption of any outstanding portion of the Option or provide for other equitable adjustments to the Option after changes in the Shares resulting from any merger, consolidation, sale of assets, acquisition of property or stock, recapitalization, reorganization or similar occurrence in which the Company is the continuing or surviving corporation.
Certain Reorganizations
 
12. . If the Option is or becomes subject to any minimum withholding requirement, the Committee may require the Optionee to remit such minimum withholding to the Company, or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Committee, in its sole discretion, regarding minimum withholding as a condition to exercising the Option or any portion thereof. The obligations of the Company under this Stock Option Award Notice shall be conditional on such payment or arrangements.
Payment of Taxes
 
13. . The headings contained herein are for convenience of reference only, do not constitute a part of this Agreement and shall not be deemed to limit or affect any of the provisions hereof.
Headings
 
14. . Any notices required by or permitted to be given to the Company under this Agreement shall be made in writing and addressed to the Secretary of the Company in care of the Company's Legal Department, 2001 Third Avenue South, Birmingham, Alabama 35233. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given when received by the Company.
Notices
 
15. . This Option has been executed this day of January, 2005, effective as of this 12
Effective Date of Stock Option
th
day of January, 2005.
 
 


