FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20060614165550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On June 9, 2006, Torchmark Corporation (Torchmark) and its subsidiary TMK Re, Ltd. (TMK Re) entered into the First Amendment (First Amendment) to that Credit Agreement dated as of November 18, 2004 among Torchmark Corporation as the Borrower, TMK Re, Ltd. as a Loan Party, Bank of America, N.A. as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, JP Morgan Bank, N.A., KeyBank National Association, Regions Bank and SunTrust Bank as Co-Syndication Agents and the other lenders party thereto (Credit Agreement). The First Amendment amends the definitions of certain terms in the Credit Agreement to exclude up to $250,000,000 of subordinated debt from the calculations of consolidated indebtedness and consolidated interest expense and to include it in the calculation of consolidated net worth as well as to include all current and future junior subordinated debentures within the definition of subordinated debt.
Torchmark and its subsidiaries from time to time have various other relationships with certain of the banks and their affiliates who participate as lenders under the First Amendment. Affiliates of JP Morgan Bank, N.A. are parties to that Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of December 21, 1999 as amended and restated as of March 31, 2000, among AILIC Receivables Corporation, American Income Life Insurance Company, Preferred Receivables Funding Corporation (PREFCO), certain financial institutions (which financial institutions together with PREFCO are Purchasers) and Bank One, N.A., as agent for Purchasers, as from time to time amended, and serve as indenture trustee for certain of the outstanding senior indebtedness of Torchmark as the successor trustee under the Indenture dated February 1, 1987 between Torchmark and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York; those documents have been previously filed as exhibits to Torchmark's Forms 10-K or 10-Q. An affiliate of The Bank of New York serves as successor indenture trustee under to the Junior Subordinated Indenture dated November 2, 2001 between Torchmark Corporation and The Bank of New York with respect to trust preferred securities issued by Torchmark Capital Trusts I, II and III and as successor indenture trustee for Torchmark's 6
 1
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2006 under the Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 14, 2001 between Torchmark, Bank One Trust Company, National Association and The Bank of New York, supplementing the Indenture dated February 1, 1987; such indentures have been previously filed as exhibits to Torchmark's Forms 10-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.01
THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of June 9, 2006, is entered into among TORCHMARK CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), TMK RE LTD., a Bermuda reinsurance corporation ("TMK"), the lenders listed on the signature pages hereof as Lenders (the ""), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
First Amendment
Borrower
Lenders
A. The Borrower, the Lenders, the Administrative Agent, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer are parties to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, (the ""). The terms defined in the Credit Agreement and not otherwise defined herein shall be used herein as defined in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
B. The Borrower has requested certain amendments to the Credit Agreement.
C. The Lenders, the Administrative Agent, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer hereby agree to amend the Credit Agreement and provide the requested waiver, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants, conditions and agreements hereafter set forth, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are all hereby acknowledged, the Borrower, the Lenders, the Swing Line Lender, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent covenant and agree as follows:
1. .
AMENDMENTS
(a) The definition of "" set forth in of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
Consolidated Indebtedness
Section 1.01
"" means the Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (excluding any obligations in respect of Subordinated Debt not to exceed $250,000,000 in aggregate principal amount) determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Indebtedness
(b) The definition of "" set forth in of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
Consolidated Interest Expense
Section 1.01
"" means, for any period of calculation, interest expense, whether paid or accrued, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (excluding any interest expense in respect of Subordinated Debt, the aggregate principal amount of which does not exceed $250,000,000) calculated on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Interest Expense
 
(c) The definition of "" set forth in of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
Consolidated Net Worth
Section 1.01
"" means, at any date of determination, the amount of consolidated common and preferred shareholders' equity of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including, without limitation, Subordinated Debt, the aggregate principal amount of which does not exceed $250,000,000), determined as at such date in accordance with GAAP; , , that the effect of the application of FAS 115 shall be excluded when computing Consolidated Net Worth.
Consolidated Net Worth
provided
however
(d) The definition of "" set forth in of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
Debenture Purchase Agreements
Section 1.01
"" means (i) the Debenture Purchase Agreement dated as of November 2, 2001 between the Borrower and Torchmark Capital Trust I entered into in connection with the Trust Preferred Securities I, as in effect on November 2, 2001, (ii) the Debenture Purchase Agreement dated as of December 13, 2001 between the Borrower and Torchmark Capital Trust II entered into in connection with the Trust Preferred Securities II, as in effect on December 13, 2001, and (iii) any other agreement between the Borrower and a third Person with respect to the issuance of Subordinated Debt or Preferred Securities.
Debenture Purchase Agreements
(e) The definition of "" set forth in of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
Junior Subordinated Debentures
Section 1.01
"" means, collectively, the 7
Junior Subordinated Debentures
 3
/
4
% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2041 of the Borrower in an aggregate amount of $154,639,200 issued in connection with the Trust Preferred Securities I and Trust Preferred Securities II, respectively.
(f) The definition of "" set forth in of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
Preferred Securities
Section 1.01
"" means, to the extent outstanding, collectively, the Trust Preferred Securities I, the Trust Preferred Securities II, and any other trust preferred securities issued in connection with any other Subordinated Debt.
Preferred Securities
(g) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by adding the defined term "" thereto in proper alphabetical order to read as follows:
Section 1.01
Subordinated Debt
"" means, collectively, (i) the Junior Subordinated Debentures and (ii) any other unsecured Indebtedness of the Borrower (and not a Subsidiary) which is subordinated by its terms to the prior payment in full of the Obligations evidenced by this Agreement in a manner no less favorable to the Lenders than the Junior Subordinated Debentures and which contain covenants that are not less favorable to the Borrower than those contained in the Junior Subordinated Debentures.
Subordinated Debt
 
(h) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 7.12
7.12 The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit Torchmark Capital Trust I, Torchmark Capital Trust II or any other obligor in respect of any other Preferred Securities to, declare or pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire, any Preferred Securities or any portion thereof if at such time, or after giving effect thereto, a Default or Event of Default exists or would exist.
Preferred Securities.
2. . By its execution and delivery hereof, the Borrower represents and warrants that, as of the date hereof:
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES TRUE; NO EVENT OF DEFAULT
(a) the representations and warranties contained in the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the date hereof as made on and as of such date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date;
(b) no event has occurred and is continuing which constitutes a Default or an Event of Default;
(c) (i) each of the Borrower and TMK has full power and authority to execute and deliver this First Amendment, (ii) this First Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by each of the Borrower and TMK, and (iii) this First Amendment and the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of each of the Borrower and TMK, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable Debtor Relief Laws and by general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law) and except as rights to indemnity may be limited by federal or state securities laws;
(d) neither the execution, delivery and performance of this First Amendment or the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, nor the consummation of any transactions contemplated herein or therein, will conflict with any Law or Organization Documents of the Borrower or TMK, or any indenture, agreement or other instrument to which the Borrower or TMK or any of their respective property is subject; and
(e) no authorization, approval, consent, or other action by, notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or other Person not previously obtained is required for the execution, delivery or performance by the Borrower or TMK of this First Amendment.
3. . This First Amendment shall be effective upon satisfaction or completion of the following:
CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS
(a) the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts of this First Amendment executed by the Required Lenders;
(b) the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts of this First Amendment executed by each of the Borrower and TMK; and
 
(c) the Administrative Agent shall have received, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel, such other documents, certificates and instruments as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably require.
4. .
REFERENCE TO THE CREDIT AGREEMENT
(a) Upon the effectiveness of this First Amendment, each reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", or words of like import shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as affected and amended hereby.
(b) The Credit Agreement, as amended by the amendments referred to above, shall remain in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed.
5. . Each Loan Party agrees to pay on demand all reasonable costs and expenses of the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, reproduction, execution and delivery of this First Amendment and the other instruments and documents to be delivered hereunder (including the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel for the Administrative Agent with respect thereto).
COSTS, EXPENSES AND TAXES
6. . This First Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken together shall constitute but one and the same instrument. For purposes of this First Amendment, a counterpart hereof (or signature page thereto) signed and transmitted by any Person party hereto to the Administrative Agent (or its counsel) by facsimile machine, telecopier or electronic mail is to be treated as an original. The signature of such Person thereon, for purposes hereof, is to be considered as an original signature, and the counterpart (or signature page thereto) so transmitted is to be considered to have the same binding effect as an original signature on an original document.
EXECUTION IN COUNTERPARTS
7. . This First Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely within such state, provided that each party shall retain all rights arising under federal law, and shall be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
GOVERNING LAW; BINDING EFFECT
8. . Section headings in this First Amendment are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this First Amendment for any other purpose.
HEADINGS
9. . THE CREDIT AGREEMENT, AS AMENDED BY THIS FIRST AMENDMENT, AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES. THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this First Amendment is executed as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


