FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20070502115921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 26, 2007, after approval of the Plan by the shareholders, based upon a recommendation from the Committee, the non-employee directors comprising the Board (with Mark McAndrew abstaining) approved the award to Company Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mark S. McAndrew of 10,000 shares of restricted stock and non-qualified stock options on 104,000 shares with an exercise price of $68.18 per share, the NYSE market closing price on April 26, 2007.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
1.1. . The purpose of the Torchmark Corporation 2007 Long-Term Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is to promote the success, and enhance the value, of Torchmark Corporation (the "Company"), by linking the personal interests of employees, officers, directors and consultants of the Company or any Affiliate (as defined below) to those of Company stockholders and by providing such persons with an incentive for outstanding performance. The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of employees, officers, directors and consultants upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of the Company's operation is largely dependent. Accordingly, the Plan permits the grant of incentive awards from time to time to selected employees, officers, directors and consultants of the Company and its Affiliates.
GENERAL
2.1. . When a word or phrase appears in this Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and the word or phrase does not commence a sentence, the word or phrase shall generally be given the meaning ascribed to it in this Section or in Section 1.1 unless a clearly different meaning is required by the context. The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:
DEFINITIONS
(a) "Affiliate" means (i) any Subsidiary or Parent, or (ii) an entity that directly or through one or more intermediaries controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Company, as determined by the Committee.
(b) "Award" means any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, Deferred Stock Unit Award, Performance Award, Dividend Equivalent Award, Other Stock-Based Award, Performance-Based Cash Awards, or any other right or interest relating to Stock or cash, granted to a Participant under the Plan.
(c) "Award Notice" means a written document, in such form as the Committee prescribes from time to time, setting forth the terms and conditions of an Award. Award Notices may be in the form of individual award notices, agreements or certificates or a program document describing the terms and provisions of an Awards or series of Awards under the Plan. The Committee may provide for the use of electronic, internet or other non-paper Award Notices, and the use of electronic, internet or other non-paper means for the acceptance thereof and actions thereunder by a Participant.
(d) "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning given such term in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the 1934 Act.
(e) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
(f) "Cause" as a reason for a Participant's termination of employment shall have the meaning assigned such term in the employment, severance or similar agreement, if any, between such Participant and the Company or an Affiliate, provided, however that if there is no such employment, severance or similar agreement in which such term is defined, and unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Certificate, "Cause" shall mean any of the following acts by the Participant, as determined by the Committee or the Board: gross neglect of duty, prolonged absence from duty without the consent of the Company, intentionally engaging in any activity that is in conflict with or adverse to the business or other interests of the Company, or willful misconduct, misfeasance or malfeasance of duty which is reasonably determined to be detrimental to the Company.
(g) "Change in Control" means and includes the occurrence of any one of the following events:
(i) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the 1934 Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act) of 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (1), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (i) any acquisition by a Person who is on the Effective Date the beneficial owner of 25% or more of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, (ii) any acquisition directly from the Company, (iii) any acquisition by the Company, (iv) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, or (v) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection (3) of this definition; or
(ii) Individuals who, as of the Effective Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or
(iii) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, and (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
(iv) approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
(h) "Code" means the U. S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. For purposes of this Plan, references to sections of the Code shall be deemed to include references to any applicable regulations thereunder and any successor or similar provision.
(i) "Committee" means the committee of the Board described in Article 4.
(j) "Company" means Torchmark Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation.
 
(k) "Continuous Status as a Participant" means the absence of any interruption or termination of service as an employee, officer, director or consultant of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable; provided, however, that for purposes of an Incentive Stock Option "Continuous Status as a Participant" means the absence of any interruption or termination of service as an employee of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, as applicable, pursuant to applicable tax regulations. Continuous Status as a Participant shall not be considered interrupted in the following cases: (ii) a Participant transfers employment between the Company and an Affiliate or between Affiliates, or (ii) in the discretion of the Committee as specified at or prior to such occurrence, in the case of a spin-off, sale or disposition of the Participant's employer from the Company or any Affiliate, or (iii) any leave of absence authorized in writing by the Company prior to its commencement; provided, however, that for purposes of Incentive Stock Options, no such leave may exceed 90 days, unless reemployment upon expiration of such leave is guaranteed by statute or contract. If reemployment upon expiration of a leave of absence approved by the Company is not so guaranteed, on the 91st day of such leave any Incentive Stock Option held by the Participant shall cease to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option and shall be treated for tax purposes as a Nonstatutory Stock Option. Whether military, government or other service or other leave of absence shall constitute a termination of employment shall be determined in each case by the Committee at its discretion, and any determination by the Committee shall be final and conclusive.
(l) "Covered Employee" means a covered employee as defined in Code Section 162(m)(3).
(m) "Deferred Stock Unit" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 9 to receive Shares of Stock (or the equivalent value in cash or other property if the Committee so provides) at a future time as determined by the Committee, or as determined by the Participant within guidelines established by the Committee in the case of voluntary deferral elections, which right may be subject to certain restrictions but is not subject to risk of forfeiture.
(n) "Disability" or "Disabled" has the same meaning as provided in the long-term disability plan or policy maintained by the Company or if applicable, most recently maintained, by the Company or if applicable, an Affiliate, for the Participant, whether or not such Participant actually receives disability benefits under such plan or policy. If no long-term disability plan or policy was ever maintained on behalf of Participant or if the determination of Disability relates to an Incentive Stock Option, or a Stock Appreciation Right issued in tandem with an Incentive Stock Option, Disability means Permanent and Total Disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code. In the event of a dispute, the determination whether a Participant is Disabled will be made by the Committee and may be supported by the advice of a physician competent in the area to which such Disability relates.
(o) "Dividend Equivalent" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 12.
(p) "Effective Date" has the meaning assigned such term in Section 3.1.
(q) "Eligible Participant" means an employee, officer, director or consultant of the Company or any Affiliate.
(r) "Exchange" means the New York Stock Exchange or any national securities exchange on which the Stock may from time to time be listed or traded.
(s) "Fair Market Value," on any date, means (i) if the Stock is listed on a securities exchange, the closing sales price on such exchange or over such system on such date or, in the absence of reported sales on such date, the closing sales price on the immediately preceding date on which sales were reported, or (ii) if the Stock is not listed on a securities exchange, the mean between the bid and offered prices as quoted by Nasdaq for such date, provided that if it is determined that the fair market value is not properly reflected by such Nasdaq quotations, Fair Market Value will be determined by such other method as the Committee determines in good faith to be reasonable and in compliance with Code Section 409A.
(t) "Full Value Award" means an Award other than in the form of an Option or SAR, and which is settled by the issuance of Stock.
 
(u) "Good Reason" (or a similar term denoting constructive termination) has the meaning, if any, assigned such term in the employment, severance or similar agreement, if any, between a Participant and the Company or an Affiliate, provided, however that if there is no such employment, severance or similar agreement in which such term is defined, "Good Reason" shall have the meaning, if any, give such term in the applicable Award Notice. If not defined in each such document, the term "Good Reason" as used herein shall not apply to a particular Award.
(v) "Grant Date" of an Award means the first date on which all necessary corporate action has been taken to approve the grant of the Award as provided in the Plan, or such later date as is determined and specified as part of that authorization process. Notice of the grant shall be provided to the grantee within a reasonable time after the Grant Date.
(w) "Incentive Stock Option" means an Option that is intended to be an incentive stock option and meets the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision.
(x) "Independent Directors" means those members of the Board of Directors who qualify at any given time as "independent" directors under Section 303A of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, "non-employee" directors under Rule 16b-3 of the 1934 Act, and "outside" directors under Section 162(m) of the Code.
(y) "Non-Employee Director" means a director of the Company who is not a common law employee of the Company or an Affiliate.
(z) "Nonstatutory Stock Option" means an Option that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
(aa) "Option" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 7 of the Plan to purchase Stock at a specified price during specified time periods. An Option may be either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
(bb) "Other Stock-Based Award" means a right, granted to a Participant under Article 13, that relates to or is valued by reference to Stock or other Awards relating to Stock.
(cc) "Parent" means a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity which owns or beneficially owns a majority of the outstanding voting stock or voting power of the Company. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to an Incentive Stock Option, Parent shall have the meaning set forth in Section 424(e) of the Code.
(dd) "Participant" means a person who, as an employee, officer, director or consultant of the Company or any Affiliate, has been granted an Award under the Plan; provided that in the case of the death or Disability of a Participant, the term "Participant" refers to the Participant's estate or other legal representative acting in a fiduciary capacity on behalf of the Participant under applicable state law and court supervision.
(ee) "Performance Award" means Performance Shares or Performance Units or Performance-Based Cash Awards granted pursuant to Article 10.
(ff) "Performance-Based Cash Award" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 10 to a cash award to be paid upon achievement of such performance goals as the Committee establishes with regard to such Award.
(gg) "Performance Share" means an Award under Article 10 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan, denominated in Shares, the value of which at the time it is payable is determined as a function of the extent to which corresponding performance criteria have been achieved.
(hh) "Performance Unit" means an Award under Article 10 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan, denominated in units, the value of which at the time it is payable is determined as a function of the extent to which corresponding performance criteria have been achieved.
 
(ii) "Person" means any individual, entity or group, within the meaning of Section 3(a)(9) of the 1934 Act and as used in Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the 1934 Act.
(jj) "Plan" means the Torchmark Corporation 2007 Long-Term Compensation Plan, as amended from time to time.
(kk) "Prior Plan" means the Company's Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan, as amended.
(ll) "Qualified Performance-Based Award" means an Award that is either (i) intended to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption and is made subject to performance goals based on Qualified Business Measures as set forth in Section 11.2, or (ii) an Option or SAR having an exercise price equal to or greater than the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock as of the Grant Date.
(mm) "Qualified Business Measures" means one or more of the Business Measures listed in Section 11.2 upon which performance goals for certain Qualified Performance-Based Awards may be established by the Committee.
(nn) "Restricted Stock Award" means Stock granted to a Participant under Article 9 that is subject to certain restrictions and to risk of forfeiture.
(oo) "Restricted Stock Unit Award" means the right granted to a Participant under Article 9 to receive shares of Stock (or the equivalent value in cash or other property if the Committee so provides) in the future, which right is subject to certain restrictions and to risk of forfeiture.
(pp) "Retirement" means a Participant's termination of employment with the Company or an Affiliate with the Committee's approval after attaining any normal or early retirement age specified in any pension, profit sharing or other retirement program sponsored by the Company, or, in the event of the inapplicability thereof with respect to the Participant in question, as determined by the Committee in its reasonable judgment.
(qq) "Section 162(m) Exemption" means the exemption from the limitation on deductibility imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code that is set forth in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
(rr) "Shares" means shares of the Company's Stock. If there has been an adjustment or substitution pursuant to Article 15, the term "Shares" shall also include any shares of stock or other securities that are substituted for Shares or into which Shares are adjusted pursuant to Article 15.
(ss) "Stock" means the $1.00 par value common stock of the Company and such other securities of the Company as may be substituted for Stock pursuant to Article 15.
(tt) "Stock Appreciation Right" or "SAR" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 8 to receive a payment equal to the difference between the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the date of exercise of the SAR over the grant price of the SAR, all as determined pursuant to Article 8.
(uu) "Subsidiary" means any corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity, domestic or foreign, of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock or voting power is beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the Company. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to an Incentive Stock Option, Subsidiary shall have the meaning set forth in Section 424(f) of the Code.
(vv) "1933 Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
(ww) "1934 Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
3.1. . The Plan shall be effective as of the date it is approved by the stockholders of the Company (the "Effective Date").
EFFECTIVE DATE
 
3.2. . The Plan shall terminate on the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date unless earlier terminated as provided herein. The termination of the Plan on such date shall not affect the validity of any Award outstanding on the date of termination, which shall continue to be governed by the applicable terms and conditions of this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Incentive Stock Options may be granted more than or ten (10) years after the earlier of (a) adoption of this Plan by the Board, or (b) the Effective Date.
TERMINATION OF PLAN
4.1. . The Plan shall be administered by a Committee appointed by the Board (which Committee shall consist of at least two directors) or, at the discretion of the Board from time to time, the Plan may be administered by the Board. It is intended that at least two of the directors appointed to serve on the Committee shall be Independent Directors and that any such members of the Committee who do not so qualify shall abstain from participating in any decision to make or administer Awards that are made to Eligible Participants who at the time of consideration for such Award (i) are persons subject to the short-swing profit rules of Section 16 of the 1934 Act, or (ii) are reasonably anticipated to become Covered Employees during the term of the Award. However, the mere fact that a Committee member shall fail to qualify as an Independent Director or shall fail to abstain from such action shall not invalidate any Award made by the Committee which Award is otherwise validly made under the Plan. The members of the Committee shall be appointed by, and may be changed at any time and from time to time in the discretion of, the Board. Unless and until changed by the Board, the Compensation Committee of the Board is designated as the Committee to administer the Plan. The Board may reserve to itself any or all of the authority and responsibility of the Committee under the Plan or may act as administrator of the Plan for any and all purposes. To the extent the Board has reserved any authority and responsibility or during any time that the Board is acting as administrator of the Plan, it shall have all the powers of the Committee hereunder, and any reference herein to the Committee (other than in this Section 4.1) shall include the Board. To the extent any action of the Board under the Plan conflicts with actions taken by the Committee, the actions of the Board shall control.
COMMITTEE
4.2. . For purposes of administering the Plan, the Committee may from time to time adopt rules, regulations, guidelines and procedures for carrying out the provisions and purposes of the Plan and make such other determinations, not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee may deem appropriate. The Committee's interpretation of the Plan, any Awards granted under the Plan, any Award Notice and all decisions and determinations by the Committee with respect to the Plan are final, binding, and conclusive on all parties. Each member of the Committee is entitled to, in good faith, rely or act upon any report or other information furnished to that member by any officer or other employee of the Company or any Affiliate, the Company's or an Affiliate's independent certified public accountants, Company counsel or any executive compensation consultant or other professional retained by the Company or the Committee to assist in the administration of the Plan.
ACTION AND INTERPRETATIONS BY THE COMMITTEE
4.3. . Except as provided in Section 4.1 and 4.5 hereof, the Committee has the exclusive power, authority and discretion to:
AUTHORITY OF COMMITTEE
 
 
(c) Determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant;
(d) Determine the number of Awards to be granted and the number of Shares or dollar amount to which an Award will relate;
(e) Determine the terms and conditions of any Award granted under the Plan;
(f) Accelerate the vesting, exercisability or lapse of restrictions of any outstanding Award, subject to and in accordance with Article 11 or 14;
 
(g) Determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances an Award may be settled in, or the exercise price of an Award may be paid in, cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property, or an Award may be canceled, forfeited, or surrendered;
(h) Prescribe the form of each Award Notice, which need not be identical for each Participant;
(i) Decide all other matters that must be determined in connection with an Award;
(j) Establish, adopt or revise any rules, regulations, guidelines or procedures as it may deem necessary or advisable to administer the Plan;
(k) Make all other decisions and determinations that may be required under the Plan or as the Committee deems necessary or advisable to administer the Plan;
(l) Amend the Plan or any Award Notice as provided herein; and
(m) Adopt such modifications, procedures, and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions in which the Company or any Affiliate may operate, in order to assure the viability of the benefits of Awards granted to participants located in such other jurisdictions and to meet the objectives of the Plan.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, grants of Awards to Non-Employee Directors hereunder shall be made only in accordance with the terms, conditions and parameters of a plan, program or policy for the compensation of Non-Employee Directors as in effect from time to time, and the Committee may not make discretionary grants hereunder to Non-Employee Directors.
4.4. .
DELEGATION
(a) . The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members or to one or more officers of the Company or an Affiliate or to one or more agents or advisors such administrative duties or powers as it may deem advisable, and the Committee or any individuals to whom it has delegated duties or powers as aforesaid may employ one or more individuals to render advice with respect to any responsibility the Committee or such individuals may have under this Plan.
Administrative Duties
(b) . The Board may, by resolution, expressly delegate to a special committee, consisting of one or more directors who are also officers of the Company, the authority, within specified parameters as to the number and terms of Awards, to (i) designate officers, employees and/or consultants of the Company or any of its Affiliates to be recipients of Awards under the Plan, and (ii) to determine the number of such Awards to be received by any such Participants; provided, however, that such delegation of duties and responsibilities to an officer of the Company may not be made with respect to the grant of Awards to eligible participants (a) who are subject to Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act at the Grant Date, or (b) who as of the Grant Date are reasonably anticipated to be become Covered Employees during the term of the Award. The acts of such delegates shall be treated hereunder as acts of the Board and such delegates shall report regularly to the Board and the Compensation Committee regarding the delegated duties and responsibilities and any Awards so granted.
Special Committee
4.5. . Each Award shall be evidenced by an Award Notice. Each Award Notice shall include such provisions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as may be specified by the Committee.
AWARD NOTICES
5.1. . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.2 and Article 15, the aggregate number of Shares reserved and available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan shall be
NUMBER OF SHARES
 
3,250,000. The maximum number of Shares that may be issued upon exercise of Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan shall be 1,000,000. The maximum number of Shares that may be issued upon grant or exercise of Full Value Awards granted under the Plan shall be 250,000.
5.2. . Shares covered by an Award shall be debited from the Plan share reserve as of the date of grant, but shall be added back to the Plan share reserve in accordance with this Section 5.2.
SHARE COUNTING
(a) To the extent that an Award is canceled, terminates, expires, is forfeited or lapses for any reason, any unissued or forfeited Shares subject to the Award will again be available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan.
(b) Shares subject to Awards settled in cash will again be available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan.
(c) Substitute Awards granted pursuant to Section 14.8 of the Plan shall not count against the Shares otherwise available for issuance under the Plan under Section 5.1.
5.3. . Any Stock distributed pursuant to an Award may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Stock, treasury Stock or Stock purchased on the open market.
STOCK DISTRIBUTED
5.4. . Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary (but subject to adjustment as provided in Article 15):
LIMITATION ON AWARDS
(a) . The maximum aggregate number of Shares subject to Options granted under the Plan in any 12-month period to any one Participant shall be 300,000.
Options
(b) . The maximum number of Shares subject to Stock Appreciation Rights granted under the Plan in any 12-month period to any one Participant shall be 300,000.
SARs
(c) . The maximum aggregate grant of performance-based Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units under the Plan in any 12-month period to any one Participant shall be 30,000.
Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units
(d) The maximum aggregate Award of Performance Units or Performance Shares that a Participant may receive in any 12-month period under the Plan shall be 30,000 Shares, or equal to the value of 30,000 Shares, determined as of the date of vesting or payout, as applicable.
Performance Units or Performance Shares.
(e) . The maximum aggregate amount awarded or credited with respect to Cash-Based Awards under the Plan to any one Participant in any 12-month period shall be the greater of $2,000,000 or the value of 30,000 Shares, determined as of the date of vesting or payout, as applicable.
Cash-Based Awards
(f) . The maximum aggregate grant with respect to Other Stock-Based Awards under the Plan in any 12-month period to any one Participant shall be 30,000 Shares.
Other Stock-Based Awards
5.5. . Except in the case of substitute Awards granted pursuant to Section 14.8 or Awards granted as an inducement to join the Company or an Affiliate as a new employee to replace forfeited awards from a former employer, Full-Value Awards granted under the Plan to an employee or officer shall either (i) be subject to a minimum vesting period of three years (which may include graduated vesting within such three-year period), or (ii) be granted solely in exchange for foregone cash compensation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may permit acceleration of vesting of such Full Value Awards in the event of the Participant's death, Disability, or Retirement, or a Change in Control.
MINIMUM VESTING REQUIREMENTS
 
6.1. . Awards may be granted only to Eligible Participants. Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Eligible Participants who are employees of the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary as defined in Section 424(e) and (f) of the Code. Eligible Participants who are employees of an Affiliate may only be granted Options or SARs to the extent that the Affiliate is part of: (i) the Company's controlled group of corporations, or (ii) a trade or business under common control with the Company, as of the Grant Date, as determined within the meaning of Code Section 414(b) or 414(c), and substituting for this purpose ownership of at least 50% (or 20% in the case of an Option or SAR granted to an employee of a joint venture partner based on "legitimate business criteria" within the meaning of Code Section 409A), of the Affiliate to determine the members of the controlled group of corporations and the entities under common control.
GENERAL
7.1. . The Committee is authorized to grant Options to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
GENERAL
(a) . The exercise price per Share under an Option shall be determined by the Committee, provided that the exercise price for any Option (other than an Option issued as a substitute Award pursuant to Section 14.8) shall not be less than the Fair Market Value as of the Grant Date.
EXERCISE PRICE
(b) . Except as otherwise provided in Article 15, the exercise price of an Option may not be reduced, directly or indirectly by cancellation and regrant or otherwise, without the prior approval of the stockholders of the Company.
PROHIBITION ON REPRICING
(c) . The Committee shall determine the time or times at which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part, subject to Section 7.1(e). The Committee shall also determine the performance or other conditions, if any, that must be satisfied before all or part of an Option may be exercised or vested.
TIME AND CONDITIONS OF EXERCISE
(d) . The Committee shall determine the methods by which the exercise price of an Option may be paid, the form of payment, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, or other property (including "cashless exercise" arrangements), and the methods by which Shares shall be delivered or deemed to be delivered to Participants.
PAYMENT
(e) . No Option granted under the Plan shall be exercisable for more than seven years from the Grant Date.
EXERCISE TERM
(f) . No Option shall provide for any feature for the deferral of compensation other than the deferral of recognition of income until the later of the exercise or disposition of the Option, or the time the Stock acquired pursuant to the exercise of the Option first becomes substantially vested.
NO DEFERRAL FEATURE
7.2. . The terms of any Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan must comply with the requirements of Section 422 of the Code. If all of the requirements of Section 422 of the Code are not met, the Option shall automatically become a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS
8.1. . The Committee is authorized to grant stock appreciation rights to participants on the following terms and conditions:
GRANT OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
 
(a) . Upon the exercise of a SAR, the Participant to whom it is granted has the right to receive, for each Share with respect to which the SAR is being exercised, the excess, if any, of:
RIGHT TO PAYMENT
(1) The Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise; over
(2) The base price of the SAR as determined by the Committee, which shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of one Share on the Grant Date.
(b) . Except as otherwise provided in Article 15, the base price of a SAR may not be reduced, directly or indirectly by cancellation and regrant or otherwise, without the prior approval of the stockholders of the Company.
PROHIBITION ON REPRICING
(c) . No SAR shall be exercisable for more than seven years from the Grant Date.
EXERCISE TERM
(d) . No SAR shall provide for any feature for the deferral of compensation other than the deferral of recognition of income until the later of the exercise of the SAR, or the time any Stock acquired pursuant to the exercise of the SAR first becomes substantially vested.
NO DEFERRAL FEATURE
(e) . All SARs shall be evidenced by an Award Notice. Subject to the limitations of this Article 8, the terms, methods of exercise, methods of settlement, form of consideration payable in settlement, and any other terms and conditions of any SAR shall be determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Award and shall be reflected in the Award Notice.
OTHER TERMS
9.1. . The Committee is authorized to make Awards of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units to Participants in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee. An Award of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Notice setting forth the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to the Award.
GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK, RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AND DEFERRED STOCK UNITS
9.2. . Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability and other restrictions as the Committee may impose (including, without limitation, limitations on the right to vote Restricted Stock or the right to receive dividends on the Restricted Stock). These restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, under such circumstances, in such installments, upon the satisfaction of performance goals or otherwise, as the Committee determines at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter. Except as otherwise provided in an Award Notice or any special Plan document governing an Award, the Participant shall have all of the rights of a stockholder with respect to the Restricted Stock, and the Participant shall have none of the rights of a stockholder with respect to Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units until such time as Shares of Stock are paid in settlement of the Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units. Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, Awards of Restricted Stock will be entitled to full dividend rights, and any dividends paid thereon will be paid or distributed to the holder no later than the 15
ISSUANCE AND RESTRICTIONS
th
day of the 3
rd
month following the later of (i) the calendar year in which the corresponding dividends were paid to stockholders, or (ii) the first calendar year in which the Participant's right to such dividends is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture.
9.3. . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter, upon termination of Continuous Status as a Participant during the applicable restriction period or upon failure to satisfy a performance goal during the applicable restriction period, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units that are at that time subject to restrictions shall be forfeited.
FORFEITURE
 
9.4. . Shares of Restricted Stock shall be delivered to the Participant at the time of grant either by book-entry registration or by delivering to the Participant, or a custodian or escrow agent (including, without limitation, the Company or one or more of its employees) designated by the Committee, a stock certificate or certificates registered in the name of the Participant. If physical certificates representing shares of Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the Participant, such certificates must bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock.
DELIVERY OF RESTRICTED STOCK
10.1. . The Committee is authorized to grant Performance Shares, Performance Units or Performance-Based Cash Awards to Participants on such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee. The Committee shall have the complete discretion to determine the number of Performance Awards granted to each Participant, subject to Section 5.4, and to designate the provisions of such Performance Awards as provided in Section 4.3. All Performance Awards shall be evidenced by an Award Notice or a written program established by the Committee, pursuant to which Performance Awards are awarded under the Plan under uniform terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in such written program.
GRANT OF PERFORMANCE AWARDS
10.2. The Committee may establish performance goals for Performance Awards which may be based on any criteria selected by the Committee. Such performance goals may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives or in terms of objectives that relate to the performance of the Participant, an Affiliate or a division, region, department or function within the Company or an Affiliate, and may relate to relative performance as compared to an outside reference or peer group. If the Committee determines that a change in the business, operations, corporate structure or capital structure of the Company or the manner in which the Company or an Affiliate conducts its business, or other events or circumstances render performance goals to be unsuitable, the Committee may modify such performance goals in whole or in part, as the Committee deems appropriate. If a Participant is promoted, demoted or transferred to a different business unit or function during a performance period, the Committee may determine that the performance goals or performance period are no longer appropriate and may (i) adjust, change or eliminate the performance goals or the applicable performance period as it deems appropriate to make such goals and period comparable to the initial goals and period, or (ii) make a cash payment to the participant in an amount determined by the Committee. The foregoing two sentences shall not apply with respect to a Performance Award that is intended to be a Qualified Performance-Based Award if the recipient of such award (a) was a Covered Employee on the date of the modification, adjustment, change or elimination of the performance goals or performance period, or (b) in the reasonable judgment of the Committee, may be a Covered Employee on the date the Performance Award is expected to be paid.
PERFORMANCE GOALS.
10.3. . The grant of a Performance Share to a Participant will entitle the Participant to receive at a specified later time a specified number of Shares, or the equivalent cash value if the Committee so provides, if the performance goals established by the Committee are achieved and the other terms and conditions thereof are satisfied. The grant of a Performance Unit to a Participant will entitle the Participant to receive at a specified later time a specified dollar value in cash or other property (including Shares) as determined by the Committee, variable under conditions specified in the Award Notice, if the performance goals applicable to the Award are achieved and the other terms and conditions thereof are satisfied. The grant of a Performance-Based Cash Award to a Participant will entitle the Participant to receive at a specified later time a specified dollar value in cash variable under conditions specified in the Award Notice, if the performance goals applicable to the Award are achieved and the other terms and conditions thereof are satisfied. The Committee shall set performance goals and other terms or conditions to payment of the Performance Awards in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the value of the Performance Awards that will be paid to the Participant.
RIGHT TO PAYMENT
 
10.4. . Performance Awards may be payable in cash, Stock, or other property in the discretion of the Committee, and have such other terms and conditions as determined by the Committee and reflected in the Award Notice. For purposes of determining the number of Shares to be used in payment of a Performance Award denominated in cash but payable in whole or in part in Shares, the number of Shares to be so paid will be determined by dividing the cash value of the Award to be so paid by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of determination by the Committee of the amount of the payment under the Award, or, if the Committee so directs, the date immediately preceding the date the Award is paid.
OTHER TERMS
11.1. . The provisions of the Plan are intended to ensure that all Options and Stock Appreciation Rights granted hereunder to any Covered Employee shall qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption; provided that the exercise or base price of such Award is not less than the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the Grant Date.
OPTIONS AND STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
11.2. . When granting any other Award, the Committee may designate such Award as a Qualified Performance-Based Award, based upon a determination that the recipient is or may be a Covered Employee with respect to such Award, and the Committee wishes such Award to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption. If an Award is so designated, the Committee shall establish performance goals for such Award, within the time period prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code, based on one or more of the following Qualified Business Measures, which performance goals may be expressed in terms of Company-wide objectives or in terms of objectives that relate to the performance of an Affiliate or a division, region, department or function within the Company or an Affiliate:
OTHER AWARDS
Premium Revenue
Total Revenue
Sales
Profit (net profit, gross profit, operating profit, economic profit, profit margins or other corporate profit measures)
Earnings (earnings per share or other corporate earnings measures)
Net income (before or after taxes, operating income or other income measures)
Cash (cash flow, cash generation or other cash measures)
Stock price or performance
Total stockholder return (stock price appreciation plus reinvested dividends divided by beginning share price)
Economic value added
Return measures (including, but not limited to, return on assets, capital, equity, investments or sales, and cash flow return on assets, capital, equity, or sales);
Market share
Improvements in capital structure
Expenses (expense management, expense ratio, expense efficiency ratios or other expense measures)
Business expansion (acquisitions)
Internal rate of return or increase in net present value
Productivity measures
 
Cost reduction measures
Strategic plan development and implementation
Performance goals with respect to the foregoing Qualified Business Measures may be specified in absolute terms, in percentages, or in terms of growth from period to period or growth rates over time, as well as measured relative to the performance of a group of comparator companies, or a published or special index, or a stock market index, that the Committee deems appropriate. Any member of a comparator group or index that disappears during a measurement period shall be disregarded for the entire measurement period. Performance Goals need not be based upon an increase or positive result under a business criterion and could include, for example, the maintenance of the status quo or the limitation of economic losses (measured, in each case, by reference to a specific business criterion).
11.3. . Each Qualified Performance-Based Award (other than a market-priced Option or SAR) shall be earned, vested and payable (as applicable) only upon the achievement of performance goals established by the Committee based upon one or more of the Qualified Business Measures, together with the satisfaction of any other conditions, such as continued employment, as the Committee may determine to be appropriate; provided, however, that the Committee may provide, either in connection with the grant thereof or by amendment thereafter, that achievement of such performance goals will be waived, in whole or in part, upon (i) the termination of employment of a Participant by reason of death, Retirement or Disability, or (ii) the occurrence of a Change in Control. Performance periods established by the Committee for any such Qualified Performance-Based Award may be as short as three months and may be any longer period.
PERFORMANCE GOALS
11.4. . The Committee may provide in any Qualified Performance-Based Award that any evaluation of performance may include or exclude any of the following events that occurs during a Performance Period: (a) asset write-downs, (b) litigation or claim judgments or settlements, (c) the effect of changes in tax laws, accounting principles, or other laws or provisions affecting reported results, (d) any reorganization and restructuring programs, (e) extraordinary nonrecurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Company's annual report to stockholders for the applicable year, (f) acquisitions or divestitures, and (g) foreign exchange gains and losses. To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to Covered Employees, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility.
INCLUSIONS AND EXCLUSIONS FROM PERFORMANCE MEASURES
11.5. . Any payment of a Qualified Performance-Based Award granted with performance goals pursuant to Section 11.3 above shall be conditioned on the written certification of the Committee in each case that the performance goals and any other material conditions were satisfied. Except as specifically provided in Section 11.3, no Qualified Performance-Based Award held by a Covered Employee or by an employee who in the reasonable judgment of the Committee may be a Covered Employee on the date of payment, may be amended, nor may the Committee exercise any discretionary authority it may otherwise have under the Plan with respect to a Qualified Performance-Based Award under the Plan, in any manner to waive the achievement of the applicable performance goal based on Qualified Business Measures or to increase the amount payable pursuant thereto or the value thereof, or otherwise in a manner that would cause the Qualified Performance-Based Award to cease to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption. The Committee shall retain the discretion to adjust such Awards downward, either on a formula or discretionary basis or any combination, as the Committee determines.
CERTIFICATION OF PERFORMANCE GOALS
11.6. . Section 5.4 sets forth the maximum number of Shares or dollar value that may be granted in any one-year period to a Participant in designated forms of Qualified Performance-Based Awards.
AWARD LIMITS
 
12.1. . The Committee is authorized to grant Dividend Equivalents only on Full Value Awards to Participants subject to such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee. Dividend Equivalents shall entitle the Participant to receive payments equal to dividends with respect to all or a portion of the number of Shares subject to an Award, as determined by the Committee. The Committee may provide that Dividend Equivalents be paid or distributed when accrued or be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Shares, or otherwise reinvested. Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, Dividend Equivalents will be paid or distributed no later than the 15
GRANT OF DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS
th
day of the 3
rd
month following the later of (i) the calendar year in which the corresponding dividends were paid to stockholders, or (ii) the first calendar year in which the Participant's right to such Dividends Equivalents is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture.
13.1. . The Committee is authorized, subject to limitations under applicable law, to grant to Participants such other Awards that are payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to Shares, as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan, including without limitation Shares awarded purely as a "bonus" and not subject to any restrictions or conditions, convertible or exchangeable debt securities, other rights convertible or exchangeable into Shares, and Awards valued by reference to book value of Shares or the value of securities of or the performance of specified Parents or Subsidiaries. The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of such Awards.
GRANT OF STOCK OR OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS
 
14.1. . At the discretion of the Committee, payment of Awards may be made in cash, Stock, a combination of cash and Stock, or any other form of property as the Committee shall determine. In addition, payment of Awards may include such terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations, if any, as the Committee deems appropriate, including, in the case of Awards paid in the form of Stock, restrictions on transfer and forfeiture provisions. Further, payment of Awards may be made in the form of a lump sum, or in installments, as determined by the Committee; provided, however, that no payment of Awards shall be made earlier than the first date that such payment may be made without causing a violation of Section 409A of the Code.
PAYMENT OF AWARDS
14.2. . No right or interest of a Participant in any unexercised or restricted Award may be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to or in favor of any party other than the Company or an Affiliate, or shall be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of such Participant to any other party other than the Company or an Affiliate. No unexercised or restricted Award shall be assignable or transferable by a Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution; provided, however, that the Committee may (but need not) permit other transfers (other than transfers for value) where the Committee concludes that such transferability (i) does not result in accelerated taxation, (ii) does not cause any Option intended to be an Incentive Stock Option to fail to be described in Code Section 422(b), and (iii) is otherwise appropriate and desirable, taking into account any factors deemed relevant, including without limitation, state or federal tax or securities laws applicable to transferable Awards.
LIMITS ON TRANSFER
14.3. . All Stock issuable under the Plan is subject to any stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee deems necessary or advisable to comply with federal or state
STOCK TRADING RESTRICTIONS
 
securities laws, rules and regulations and the rules of any national securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Stock is listed, quoted, or traded. The Committee may place legends on any Stock certificate or issue instructions to the transfer agent to reference restrictions applicable to the Stock.
14.4. . Except as otherwise provided in the Award Notice or any special Plan document governing an Award, upon the termination of a person's Continuous Status as a Participant by reason of death or Disability, (i) all of such Participant's outstanding Options and SARs shall become fully exercisable, (ii) all time-based vesting restrictions on the Participant's outstanding Awards shall lapse, and (iii) the target payout opportunities attainable under all of such Participant's outstanding performance-based Awards shall be deemed to have been fully earned as of the date of termination based upon (A) an assumed achievement of all relevant performance goals at the "target" level if the date of termination occurs during the first half of the applicable performance period, or (B) the actual level of achievement of all relevant performance goals against target, if the date of termination occurs during the second half of the applicable performance period, and, in either such case, there shall be a prorata payout to the Participant or his or her estate within thirty (30) days following the date of termination (or, if later, the first date that such payment may be made without causing a violation of Section 409A of the Code) based upon the length of time within the performance period that has elapsed prior to the date of termination. Any Awards shall thereafter continue or lapse in accordance with the other provisions of the Plan and the Award Notice. To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to exceed the dollar limitation set forth in Code Section 422(d), the excess Options shall be deemed to be Nonstatutory Stock Options.
ACCELERATION UPON DEATH OR DISABILITY
14.5. . The provisions of this Section 14.5 shall apply in the case of a Change in Control, unless otherwise provided in the Award Notice or any special Plan document or separate agreement with a Participant governing an Award.
EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN CONTROL
(a) . Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, and except with respect to any Awards assumed by the Surviving Entity or otherwise equitably converted or substituted in connection with the Change in Control in a manner approved by the Committee or the Board: (i) outstanding Options and SARs shall become fully exercisable, (ii) time-based vesting restrictions on outstanding Awards shall lapse, and (iii) the target payout opportunities attainable under outstanding performance-based Awards shall be deemed to have been fully earned as of the effective date of the Change in Control based upon (A) an assumed achievement of all relevant performance goals at the "target" level if the Change in Control occurs during the first half of the applicable performance period, or (B) the actual level of achievement of all relevant performance goals against target, if the Change in Control occurs during the second half of the applicable performance period, and, in either such case, subject to Section 17.3, there shall be prorata payout to Participants within thirty (30) days following the Change in Control (or, if later, the first date that such payment may be made without causing a violation of Section 409A of the Code) based upon the length of time within the performance period that has elapsed prior to the Change in Control. Any Awards shall thereafter continue or lapse in accordance with the other provisions of the Plan and the Award Notice. To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to exceed the dollar limitation set forth in Code Section 422(d), the excess Options shall be deemed to be Nonstatutory Stock Options.
Awards not Assumed or Substituted by Surviving Entity
(b) . With respect to Awards assumed by the Surviving Entity or otherwise equitably converted or substituted in connection with a Change in Control: if within two years after the effective date of the Change in Control, a Participant's employment is terminated without Cause or the Participant resigns for Good Reason, then (i) all of that Participant's outstanding Options and SARs shall become fully exercisable, (ii) all time-based vesting restrictions on the his or her outstanding Awards shall lapse, and (iii) the target payout opportunities attainable under all outstanding of that Participant's performance-based Awards shall be deemed to have been fully earned as of the date of termination based upon (A) an assumed achievement of all relevant performance goals at the "target" level if the date of termination occurs during the first half of the applicable performance period, or (B) the actual level of achievement of all relevant performance goals against target, if the date of termination occurs
Awards Assumed or Substituted by Surviving Entity
 
during the second half of the applicable performance period, and, in either such case, there shall be prorata payout to such Participant within thirty (30) days following the date of termination of employment (or, if later, the first date that such payment may be made without causing a violation of Section 409A of the Code) based upon the length of time within the performance period that has elapsed prior to the date of termination of employment. With regard to each Award, a Participant shall not be considered to have resigned for Good Reason unless either (i) the Award Notice includes such provision or (ii) the Participant is party to an employment, severance or similar agreement with the Company or an Affiliate that includes provisions in which the Participant is permitted to resign for Good Reason. Any Awards shall thereafter continue or lapse in accordance with the other provisions of the Plan and the Award Notice. To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to exceed the dollar limitation set forth in Code Section 422(d), the excess Options shall be deemed to be Nonstatutory Stock Options.
14.6. . If an Award is accelerated under Section 14.5, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide (i) that the Award will expire after a designated period of time after such acceleration to the extent not then exercised, (ii) that the Award will be settled in cash rather than Stock, (iii) that the Award will be assumed by another party to a transaction giving rise to the acceleration or otherwise be equitably converted or substituted in connection with such transaction, (iv) that the Award may be settled by payment in cash or cash equivalents equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock, as of a specified date associated with the transaction, over the exercise price of the Award, or (v) any combination of the foregoing. The Committee's determination need not be uniform and may be different for different Participants whether or not such Participants are similarly situated. To the extent that such acceleration causes Incentive Stock Options to exceed the dollar limitation set forth in Code Section 422(d), the excess Options shall be deemed to be Nonstatutory Stock Options.
EFFECT OF ACCELERATION
14.7. . The Committee may specify in an Award Notice that the Participant's rights, payments and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events shall include, but shall not be limited to, termination of employment for cause, violation of material Company or Affiliate policies, breach of non-competition, confidentiality or other restrictive covenants that may apply to the Participant, or other conduct by the Participant that is detrimental to the business or reputation of the Company or any Affiliate.
FORFEITURE EVENTS
14.8. . The Committee may grant Awards under the Plan in substitution for stock and stock-based awards held by employees of another entity who become employees of the Company or an Affiliate as a result of a merger or consolidation of the former employing entity with the Company or an Affiliate or the acquisition by the Company or an Affiliate of property or stock of the former employing corporation. The Committee may direct that the substitute awards be granted on such terms and conditions as the Committee considers appropriate in the circumstances.
SUBSTITUTE AWARDS
15.1. . In the event of a nonreciprocal transaction between the Company and its stockholders that causes the per-share value of the Stock to change (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, spin-off, rights offering, or large nonrecurring cash dividend), the authorization limits under Section 5.1 and 5.4 shall be adjusted proportionately, and the Committee shall make such adjustments to the Plan and Awards as it deems necessary, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights immediately resulting from such transaction. Action by the Committee may include: (i) adjustment of the number and kind of shares that may be delivered under the Plan; (ii) adjustment of the number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Awards; (iii) adjustment of the exercise price of outstanding Awards or the measure to be used to determine the amount of the benefit payable on an Award; and (iv) any other adjustments that the Committee
MANDATORY ADJUSTMENTS
 
determines to be equitable. Without limiting the foregoing, in the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Stock (stock-split), a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, or a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Stock into a lesser number of Shares, the authorization limits under Section 5.1 and 5.4 shall automatically be adjusted proportionately, and the Shares then subject to each Award shall automatically, without the necessity for any additional action by the Committee, be adjusted proportionately without any change in the aggregate purchase price therefor.
15.2 . Upon the occurrence or in anticipation of any corporate event or transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any merger, reorganization, recapitalization, combination or exchange of shares, or any transaction described in Section 15.1), the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide (i) that Awards will be settled in cash rather than Stock, (ii) that Awards will become immediately vested and exercisable and will expire after a designated period of time to the extent not then exercised, (iii) that Awards will be assumed by another party to a transaction or otherwise be equitably converted or substituted in connection with such transaction, (iv) that outstanding Awards may be settled by payment in cash or cash equivalents equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock, as of a specified date associated with the transaction, over the exercise price of the Award, (v) that performance targets and performance periods for Performance Awards will be modified, consistent with Code Section 162(m) where applicable, or (vi) any combination of the foregoing. The Committee's determination need not be uniform and may be different for different Participants whether or not such Participants are similarly situated.
DISCRETIONARY ADJUSTMENTS
15.3 . Any discretionary adjustments made pursuant to this Article 15 shall be subject to the provisions of Section 16.2. To the extent that any adjustments made pursuant to this Article 15 cause Incentive Stock Options to cease to qualify as Incentive Stock Options, such Options shall be deemed to be Nonstatutory Stock Options.
GENERAL
16.1. . The Board or the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, amend, modify or terminate the Plan without stockholder approval; provided, however, that if an amendment to the Plan would, in the reasonable opinion of the Board or the Committee, either (i) materially increase the number of Shares available under the Plan, (ii) expand the types of awards under the Plan, (iii) materially expand the class of participants eligible to participate in the Plan, (iv) materially extend the term of the Plan, or (v) otherwise constitute a material change requiring stockholder approval under applicable laws, policies or regulations or the applicable listing or other requirements of an Exchange, then such amendment shall be subject to stockholder approval; and provided, further, that the Board or Committee may condition any other amendment or modification on the approval of stockholders of the Company for any reason, including by reason of such approval being necessary or deemed advisable (i) to comply with the listing or other requirements of an Exchange, or (ii) to satisfy any other tax, securities or other applicable laws, policies or regulations.
AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION
16.2. . At any time and from time to time, the Committee may amend, modify or terminate any outstanding Award without approval of the Participant; provided, however:
AWARDS PREVIOUSLY GRANTED
(a) Subject to the terms of the applicable Award Notice, such amendment, modification or termination shall not, without the Participant's consent, reduce or diminish the value of such Award determined as if the Award had been exercised, vested, cashed in or otherwise settled on the date of such amendment or termination (with the per-share value of an Option or SAR for this purpose being calculated as the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value as of the date of such amendment or termination over the exercise or base price of such Award);
(b) The original term of an Option or SAR may not be extended without the prior approval of the stockholders of the Company;
 
(c) Except as otherwise provided in Article 15, the exercise price of an Option or SAR may not be reduced, directly or indirectly, without the prior approval of the stockholders of the Company; and
(d) No termination, amendment, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant affected thereby. An outstanding Award shall not be deemed to be "adversely affected" by a Plan amendment if such amendment would not reduce or diminish the value of such Award determined as if the Award had been exercised, vested, cashed in or otherwise settled on the date of such amendment (with the per-share value of an Option or SAR for this purpose being calculated as the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value as of the date of such amendment over the exercise or base price of such Award).
17.1. .
RIGHTS OF PARTICIPANTS
(a) No Participant or any Eligible Participant shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan. Neither the Company, its Affiliates nor the Committee is obligated to treat Participants or Eligible Participants uniformly, and determinations made under the Plan may be made by the Committee selectively among Eligible Participants who receive, or are eligible to receive, Awards (whether or not such Eligible Participants are similarly situated).
(b) Nothing in the Plan, any Award Notice or any other document or statement made with respect to the Plan, shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate any Participant's employment or status as an officer, or any Participant's service as a director, or any Participant's engagement as a consultant, at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue as an employee, officer, director or consultant of the Company or any Affiliate, whether for the duration of a Participant's Award or otherwise.
(c) Neither an Award nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall constitute an employment contract with the Company or any Affiliate and, accordingly, subject to Article 16, this Plan and the benefits hereunder may be terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee without giving rise to any liability on the part of the Company or an of its Affiliates.
(d) No Award gives a Participant any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company unless and until Shares are in fact issued to such person in connection with such Award.
17.2. . The Company or any Affiliate shall have the authority and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum payment of federal, state, and local taxes (including the Participant's FICA obligation) required by law to be withheld with respect to any exercise, lapse of restriction or other taxable event arising as a result of the Plan. With respect to withholding required upon any taxable event under the Plan, the Committee may, at the time the Award is granted or thereafter, require or permit that any such withholding requirement be satisfied, in whole or in part, by withholding from the Award Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of withholding equal to the minimum amount (and not any greater amount) required to be withheld for tax purposes, all in accordance with such procedures as the Committee establishes. All such elections shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.
WITHHOLDING
17.3. .
SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO SECTION 409A OF THE CODE
(a) Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or in any Award Notice to the contrary, to the extent that any amount or benefit that would constitute "deferred compensation" for purposes of Section 409A of the Code would otherwise be payable or distributable under the Plan or any Award Notice by reason the occurrence of a Change in Control or the Participant's Disability or separation from service, such amount or benefit will not be payable or distributable to the Participant by reason of such circumstance unless (i) the circumstances giving rise to such Change in Control, Disability or separation from service meet the description or
 
definition of "change in control event", "disability" or "separation from service", as the case may be, in Section 409A of the Code and applicable proposed or final regulations, (ii) the payment or distribution of such amount or benefit to any person who is a "key employee" is delayed for such period of time, if any, as may be required to avoid a violation of Code Section 409A, or (iii) the payment or distribution of such amount or benefit would be exempt from the application of Section 409A of the Code by reason of the short-term deferral exemption or otherwise. This provision does not prohibit the vesting of any Award or the vesting of any right to eventual payment or distribution of any amount or benefit under the Plan or any Award Notice.
(b) Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or in any Award Notice to the contrary, to the extent necessary to avoid the application of Section 409A of the Code, (i) the Committee may not amend an outstanding Option, SAR or similar Award to extend the time to exercise such Award beyond the later of the 15
th
day of the third month following the date at which, or December 31 of the calendar year in which, the Award would otherwise have expired if the Award had not been extended, based on the terms of the Award at the original Grant Date (the "Safe Harbor Extension Period"), and (ii) any purported extension of the exercise period of an outstanding Award beyond the Safe Harbor Extension Period shall be deemed to be an amendment to the last day of the Safe Harbor Extension Period and no later.
17.4. . The Plan is intended to be an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award Notice shall give the Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company or any Affiliate. This Plan is not intended to be subject to ERISA.
UNFUNDED STATUS OF AWARDS
17.5. . No payment under the Plan shall be taken into account in determining any benefits under any pension, retirement, savings, profit sharing, group insurance, welfare or benefit plan of the Company or any Affiliate unless provided otherwise in such other plan.
RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BENEFITS
17.6. . The expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Company and its Affiliates.
EXPENSES
17.7. . The titles and headings of the Sections in the Plan are for convenience of reference only, and in the event of any conflict, the text of the Plan, rather than such titles or headings, shall control.
TITLES AND HEADINGS
17.8. . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.
GENDER AND NUMBER
17.9. . No fractional Shares shall be issued and the Committee shall determine, in its discretion, whether cash shall be given in lieu of fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares shall be eliminated by rounding up or down.
FRACTIONAL SHARES
17.10. .
GOVERNMENT AND OTHER REGULATIONS
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, no Participant who acquires Shares pursuant to the Plan may, during any period of time that such Participant is an affiliate of the Company (within the meaning of the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the 1933 Act), sell such Shares, unless such offer and sale is made (i) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the 1933 Act, which is current and includes the Shares to be sold, or (ii) pursuant to an appropriate exemption from the registration requirement of the 1933 Act, such as that set forth in Rule 144 promulgated under the 1933 Act.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if at any time the Committee shall determine that the registration, listing or qualification of the Shares covered by an Award upon any Exchange or under any
 
foreign, federal, state or local law or practice, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of such Award or the purchase or receipt of Shares thereunder, no Shares may be purchased, delivered or received pursuant to such Award unless and until such registration, listing, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any condition not acceptable to the Committee. Any Participant receiving or purchasing Shares pursuant to an Award shall make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee may request to assure compliance with the foregoing or any other applicable legal requirements. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for Shares under the Plan prior to the Committee's determination that all related requirements have been fulfilled. The Company shall in no event be obligated to register any securities pursuant to the 1933 Act or applicable state or foreign law or to take any other action in order to cause the issuance and delivery of such certificates to comply with any such law, regulation or requirement.
17.11. To the extent not governed by federal law, the Plan and all Award Notices shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
GOVERNING LAW.
17.12. . Each Award Notice may contain such other terms and conditions as the Committee may determine; provided that such other terms and conditions are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan.
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
17.13. . The grant of any Award shall not in any way affect the right or power of the Company to make adjustments, reclassification or changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. The Plan shall not restrict the authority of the Company, for proper corporate purposes, to draft or assume awards, other than under the Plan, to or with respect to any person. If the Committee so directs, the Company may issue or transfer Shares to an Affiliate, for such lawful consideration as the Committee may specify, upon the condition or understanding that the Affiliate will transfer such Shares to a Participant in accordance with the terms of an Award granted to such Participant and specified by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.
NO LIMITATIONS ON RIGHTS OF COMPANY
17.14. Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, or an officer of the Company to whom authority was delegated in accordance with Article 4 shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf, unless such loss, cost, liability, or expense is a result of his or her own willful misconduct or except as expressly provided by statute. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's charter or bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
INDEMNIFICATION.
The foregoing is hereby acknowledged as being the Torchmark Corporation 2007 Long-Term Compensation Plan as adopted by the Board on February 20, 2007 and by the stockholders on April 26, 2007.
 
 

STATE OF TEXAS
Exhibit 99.2
COLLIN COUNTY
TORCHMARK CORPORATION, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state of Delaware (the "Company"), does hereby grant and give unto (the "Optionee"), the following non-qualified stock option (the "Option") upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
[Insert Name]
1. . The Option is granted under the provisions of the Torchmark Corporation 2007 Long-Term Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as a non-qualified option and is subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Plan which is incorporated by reference herein.
Stock Incentive Plan
2. . The Optionee is hereby granted an option to purchase from the Company shares (the "Shares") of the company's common capital stock.
Number of Shares
[Insert Number]
3. . The option price for each Share subject to the Option shall be , the closing price of the Stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape on , which is the "Grant Date".
Option Price Per Share
[Insert $Price]
[Insert Date]
 
4. . The Option shall be and become first exercisable to the extent of 50% of the Shares on and after . The remaining Shares shall become exercisable on and after . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if the Option is not exercised with respect to all Shares prior to seven (7) years from the Grant Date, it shall terminate and the parties hereto shall have no further rights or obligations hereunder. For the purposes of this agreement, "Option Period" shall mean the seven (7) year period commencing on the Grant Date.
Option Period
[Insert Date]
[Insert Date]
5. . The Option may be exercised in whole or in part at any time during the Option Period, by giving written notice of exercise to the Company specifying the number of Shares to be purchased, accompanied by payment in full of the purchase price, in cash, by check or such other instrument as may be acceptable to the Compensation Committee of the Torchmark Board of Directors (the "Committee"). Payment in full or in part may also be made in the form of unrestricted stock already owned by the Optionee (based on the fair market value of the stock on the date the Option is exercised). The Optionee shall have the rights to dividends or other rights of a stockholder with respect to the Shares subject to the option when the Optionee has given written notice of exercise and has paid in full for such Shares.
Method of Exercise
6. . The Option may be transferred by the Optionee to members of his or her Immediate Family (the children, grandchildren or spouse of the Optionee), to one or more trusts for the benefit of such Immediate Family members or to one or more partnerships where such Immediate Family members are the only partners if (i) the Optionee has received express written approval of such transfer from the Committee and (ii) the Optionee does not receive any consideration in any form whatsoever for said transfer. Except as provided in the foregoing sentence, the Option shall not be transferable by the Optionee other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Transferability of Option
 
7. . If the Optionee's employment with the Company, any Subsidiary and/or any Affiliate terminates by reason of death (or if Optionee dies following termination of employment by reason of disability or retirement at or after age 65), the Option shall become immediately exercisable and may thereafter be exercised by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of the Optionee under the will of the Optionee, during the period ending on the expiration of the stated term of the Option or the first anniversary of the Optionee's death, whichever is later.
Termination by Death
8. . If the Optionee's employment with the Company, any Subsidiary, and/or any Affiliate terminates by reason of Disability, the Option shall be immediately exercisable and may thereafter be exercised during the period ending on the expiration of the stated term of the Option.
Termination by Reason of Disability
9. . If the Optionee's employment with the Company, any Subsidiary, and/or any Affiliate terminates by reason of retirement at or after age 65, the Option shall become immediately exercisable and may thereafter be exercised during the period ending on the expiration of the stated term of the Option.
Termination by Reason of Retirement
If the Optionee's employment with the Company, any Subsidiary, and/or any Affiliate terminates by reason of retirement at or after age 60, the Option shall terminate five (5) years from the date of such retirement or upon the expiration of the stated term of the Option, whichever is shorter. If the Optionee's employment with the Company, any Subsidiary and/or any Affiliate terminates by reason of retirement at or after age 55, the Option shall terminate three (3) years from the date of such retirement or upon the expiration of the stated term of the Option, whichever is shorter. In the event of retirement at or after ages 55 or 60, there shall be no acceleration of vesting of the Option and the Option may only be exercised to the extent it is or becomes exercisable prior to the termination of the Option.
 
10. . If the Optionee's employment with the Company, any Subsidiary and/or any Affiliate is terminated for Cause, or the Committee determines that the Optionee has engaged in conduct that would be grounds for termination with cause, the Option shall be immediately forfeited to the Company upon the giving of notice of termination of employment.
Termination for Cause
11. . If the Optionee's employment with the Company, any Subsidiary and/or any Affiliate is involuntarily terminated by the Optionee's employer without Cause, the Option shall terminate three (3) months from the date of termination of employment or upon the expiration of the stated term of the Option, whichever is shorter. If the Optionee's employment with the Company, any Subsidiary and/or any Affiliate is voluntarily terminated for any reason, the Option shall terminate one (1) month from the date of termination of employment or upon the expiration of the stated term of the Option, whichever is shorter. In the event of involuntary termination without Cause or voluntary termination, there shall be no acceleration of vesting of the Option and the Option may only be exercised to the extent it is or becomes exercisable prior to such termination.
Other Termination
12. . The Shares for which the Option is hereby granted shall have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange at the time the Option is exercised.
Shares Listed on the Exchange
13. . The Shares to be delivered upon exercise of the Option shall be made available, at the discretion of the Company, either from authorized but previously unissued Shares or from Shares held in the treasury of the Company.
Shares May be Newly Issued or Purchased
14. . In the event of any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, stock dividend, or other change in corporate structure affecting the Stock, a substitution or adjustment shall be made in the number and price of Shares.
Adjustment of Shares for Recapitalization
 
15. . The Optionee shall, no later than the date as of which the value of any portion of the Option first becomes includable in his/her gross income for Federal income tax purposes, pay to the Company, or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Committee, in its sole discretion, regarding payment of, the minimum Federal, state, local or FICA taxes of any kind required by the law to be withheld with respect to the Option. The obligations of the Company under this Agreement shall be conditional on such payment or arrangements.
Payment of Taxes
The Optionee may elect, subject to the approval of the Committee, to satisfy his/her minimum Federal, and where applicable, FICA, state and local tax withholding obligations arising from all awards by the reduction in an amount necessary to pay any such minimum withholding tax obligations, of the number of Shares of stock or amount of cash otherwise issuable or payable to said Optionee upon the issuance of Shares or payment of cash in respect of an Option. The Company and, where applicable, its Subsidiaries and Affiliates shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such minimum withholding taxes owed by an Optionee who is not subject to Section 16 of the 1934 Act from any payment of any kind otherwise due to said Optionee.
16. . The headings contained herein are for convenience of reference only, do not constitute a part of this Grant Agreement and shall not be deemed to limit or affect any of the provisions hereof.
Headings
17. . Any notices required by or permitted to be given to the Company under this Agreement shall be made in writing and addressed to the Secretary of the Company in care of the Company's Legal Department, 2001 Third Avenue South, Birmingham, Alabama 35233. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given when received by the Company.
Notices
 
18. . This Option has been executed this day of , 20__, effective as of .
Effective Date of Stock Option
            
            
[Insert Date]
 

STATE OF TEXAS
Exhibit 99.3
COLLIN COUNTY
This Agreement, entered into this , by and between Torchmark Corporation (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation and (the "Executive"), an individual.
            
day of , 20__
            
[Insert Name]
WHEREAS, under the terms of the Torchmark Corporation 2007 Long-Term Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") is authorized to award shares of common stock of the Company to certain executives of the Company and its subsidiaries, subject to such restrictions and other criteria as the Board shall in its sole discretion determine; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is in the best interest of the Company to grant to the Executive shares of restricted common stock of the Company upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. . Under the terms of the Plan, the Board has awarded to the Executive, on (the "Grant Date") a bonus payable in the form of of the Company's common stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Restricted Stock") subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in this Agreement. The Restricted Stock shall be issued from common stock reserved and available for distribution under the Plan.
Grant of Restricted Stock
[Insert Date]
[Insert Number] restricted shares
 
2. . The shares covered by the Restricted Stock shall vest in accordance with the schedule set forth below, provided that the Executive is still employed by the Company or a subsidiary on the Vesting Date:
Restrictions
 
The Board may, however, in its sole discretion, provide for the lapse of any of the restrictions placed upon the Restricted Stock and may accelerate or waive any of such restrictions in whole or in part at any time, based upon performance and/or such other factors as the Board may determine, in its sole discretion.
Upon the vesting of any part of the Restricted Stock by virtue of the lapse of the restriction period set forth above or under Paragraph 3 or 4 of the Agreement, the Company shall deliver a stock certificate covering the requisite number of shares to the Executive, whereupon the Executive shall be free to hold or dispose of such stock at will.
During the restriction period, the shares covered by the Restricted Stock not already vested are not transferable by the Executive by means of sale, assignment, exchange, hypothecation, pledge or other encumbrance.
The restrictions imposed under this Section 2 shall apply as well to all shares or other securities which shall be issued in respect of Restricted Stock hereunder in connection with any stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reclassification, spin-off, merger, consolidation, reorganization or other change in corporate structure affecting the common stock.
3. . If the Executive's employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries terminates during the restriction period by reason of death or normal retirement as defined in the Plan, the shares covered by the Restricted Stock, to the extent not already vested, shall vest in full as of the date of such death or date of retirement. If the Executive's employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries terminates by reason of retirement at or after age 60, 75% of any shares covered by the
Employment Termination
remaining Restricted Stock not already vested shall vest in full as of the Executive's retirement date. Termination of the Executive's employment with the Company for any other reason during the restriction period shall result in forfeiture of all shares covered by this Restricted Stock Award Agreement which remain subject to restriction on the date of termination, unless the Board in its sole discretion shall determine otherwise.
4. . All restrictions remaining on the Restricted Stock shall terminate upon the occurrence of a Terminating Event and the value of all outstanding Restricted Stock shall, to the extent determined by the Committee at or after grant, be settled on the basis of the "Change of Control Price" as defined in the Plan, subject to the terms and conditions of said Plan. As used herein, a "Terminating Event" shall be:
Terminating Event
(a) The dissolution or liquidation of the Company;
(b) A "Change of Control" of the Company as defined in the Plan, as it may be from time to time amended.
5. . The stock certificate(s) evidencing the shares covered by the Restricted Stock Award Agreement shall be registered on the Company's books in the name of the Executive as of the Grant Date. Physical possession or custody of such stock certificate(s) together with a stock power, endorsed in blank, relating thereto shall be retained by the Company until such time as the shares of stock are fully vested. While in its possession, the Company reserves the right to place a legend on the stock certificate(s) restricting the transferability of such certificate(s) and referring to the terms and conditions (including forfeiture) approved by the Board and applicable to the Restricted Stock.
Stock Certificate(s)
During the restriction period, except as otherwise provided below in this paragraph and as provided in Paragraph 2 of this Agreement, the Executive shall be entitled to all rights of a stockholder of the Company, including the right to vote the shares covered by the Restricted Stock Award Agreement and to receive dividends and/or other distributions declared on such shares.
6. . Nothing set forth in this Agreement nor in any action of the Company or the Board shall be held or construed to confer upon the Executive any legal right to be continued in the employ of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, which expressly reserve the right to
No Right of Continued Employment
discharge the Executive at any time, without prior notice, for any or no reason without liability to the Company and its subsidiaries or to the Board.
7. . Upon issuance of the Restricted Stock hereunder, the Executive may make an election to be taxed upon such award under Section 83(b) of the Code. The Executive will, no later than the date as of which any amount related to the Restricted Stock first become includable in the Executive's gross income for federal income tax purposes, pay to the Company, or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Board regarding payment of, any federal, state and local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to such amount. The Board hereby approves the Executive's surrender to the Company of the number of shares of Restricted Stock from this award necessary to pay the minimum applicable withholding tax obligation. The obligations of the Company under this Agreement will be conditional on such payment or arrangements, and the Company, and, where applicable, its subsidiary will, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment of any kind otherwise due to the Executive.
Payment of Taxes
8. . The value of the Restricted Stock (either on the Grant Date or at the time the shares are vested) shall not be includable as compensation or earnings for purposes of any other benefit plans offered by the Company.
Impact on Other Benefits
9. . The Board shall have full authority and discretion (subject only to the express terms of the Plan) to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement. All such Board determinations shall be final, conclusive and binding upon the Company, the Executive and any and all interested parties.
Administration
10. . The terms contained in the Plan are incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement and this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Plan. In the event of any actual or alleged conflict between the provisions of the Plan and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall be controlling and determinative.
Plan Controls
11. . The Executive understands that the Board may, in its sole discretion, specify that certificates for the Restricted Stock may bear the following legend and/or be held in the custody of the Company, together with a stock power, endorsed in blank, relating to the Restricted Stock:
Securities Legend
 
"The transferability of this certificate and the shares of stock represented hereby are subject to the terms and conditions (including forfeiture) of the Torchmark Corporation 2007 Long-Term Compensation Plan and a Restricted Stock Award Agreement entered into between the registered owner and Torchmark Corporation. Copies of such Plan and Agreement are on file in the offices of Torchmark Corporation, 2001 Third Avenue South, Birmingham, Alabama 35233."
12. . All questions pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity and effect of the provisions of this Agreement shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas.
Governing Law
13. . This Agreement may not be amended except in writing, signed by the parties hereto.
Amendment
14. . This Agreement contains the entire agreement and understanding of the parties hereto with respect to the matters covered hereby.
Entire Agreement
15. . In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be determined to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Severability
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day first above written.
 


