FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20070116125312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
Torchmark Corporation issued a press release dated January 16, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference and attached hereto as an exhibit, announcing the closing of its acquisition of the assets of Direct Marketing and Advertising Distributors, Inc.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
McKinney, Texas, January 16, 2007Torchmark Corporation (NYSE: TMK) announced today that a subsidiary of Globe Life And Accident Insurance Company has acquired the assets of Direct Marketing Advertising Distributors, Inc. (DMAD), Hicksville, New York, for $47 million. For more than ten years, DMAD has provided advertising and targeted marketing for the portion of Globe's direct response insurance business that is distributed through mailed coupon packets and publication inserts. At the time of the acquisition, Globe was DMAD's only insurance client.
Mark S. McAndrew, Chairman and CEO of Torchmark, will host a conference call at 10:00 a.m. (Eastern) on Wednesday, January 17, 2007, for investors, analysts and other interested parties who may have questions about this transaction. To participate, call 719-457-2680 shortly before 10:00, password "Torchmark." The call will also be webcast live and in replay at
www.torchmarkcorp.com
on the Investor Relations page, at the Conference Calls on the Web icon, or at
www.prnewswire.com/news
at the Multimedia Menu at Conference Calls on the Web.
Torchmark Corporation is a holding company specializing in life and supplemental health insurance for "middle income" Americans marketed through multiple distribution channels including direct response, and exclusive and independent agencies. Torchmark has several nationally recognized insurance subsidiaries. Globe Life And Accident is a direct-response provider of life insurance known for its administrative efficiencies. American Income Life provides individual life insurance to labor union members. Liberty National Life, one of the oldest traditional life insurers in the Southeast, is the largest life insurer in its home state of Alabama. United American is a consumer-oriented provider of supplemental health insurance.
 


