FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20070827103658.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
The Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of December 21, 1999, as amended and restated as of March 31, 2000, among AILIC Receivables Corporation (AILIC Receivables), American Income Life Insurance Company (AIL), Chariot Funding LLC, successor by assignment to Preferred Receivables Funding Company, LLC (Chariot), certain financial institutions (which financial institutions together with Chariot are Purchasers) and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, Successor by Merger to Bank One, N.A. (Chicago, Illinois) as Agent for Purchasers was amended on August 24, 2007. Torchmark Corporation, parent company of AILIC Receivables and AIL, has issued a performance guaranty on the Receivables Purchase Agreement and that performance guaranty was also reaffirmed on August 24, 2007.
The material change in the amendment was the establishment of August 22, 2008 as the new liquidity termination date.
JPMorgan Chase and subsidiaries, including J.P. Morgan Securities, also serve as (a) one of three dealers for Torchmark's commercial paper program and as the issuing and paying agent for such commercial paper; (b) indenture trustee for certain of Torchmark's publicly-traded debt securities and (c) co-syndication agent of Torchmark's Five-year Credit Agreement.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 8 (this "Amendment") dated as of August 24, 2007 is entered into among:
 
 
 
 
 
A. Reference is made to that certain Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of December 21, 1999 as amended and restated as of March 31, 2000 (as the same may have been further amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified since such date, the "") among the Seller, AIL, Chariot, certain financial institutions and the Agent. Unless defined elsewhere herein, capitalized terms used in this Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
Receivables Purchase Agreement
B. The parties thereto have agreed to amend the Receivables Purchase Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises set forth above and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Seller Parties, Chariot, the Financial Institutions and the Agent hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1. . The Receivables Purchase Agreement is, effective the date hereof and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 2 hereof, hereby amended to
Amendments to the Receivables Purchase Agreement
1.1 Delete in their entirety the definition of "" set forth in thereof and to substitute the following new definitions therefor:
Liquidity Termination Date
Exhibit I
"" means August 22, 2008.
Liquidity Termination Date
SECTION 2. . This Amendment shall become effective and be deemed effective as of the date hereof upon receipt by the Agent of
Conditions Precedent
(i) counterparts of this Amendment executed by each of the Seller Parties, the Purchasers and the Agent; and
(ii) a reaffirmation of guaranty executed by Torchmark, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto;
SECTION 3. .
Covenants, Representations and Warranties of the Seller Parties
3.l Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, each of the Seller Parties hereby reaffirms all covenants, representations and warranties made by it in the Receivables Purchase Agreement and agrees that all such covenants, representations and warranties shall be deemed to have been re-made as of the effective date of this Amendment.
3.2 Each of the Seller Parties hereby represents and warrants to the Purchasers and the Agent that: (a) this Amendment has been duly authorized by proper corporate proceedings of each Seller Party and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of such Person, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, and (b) after giving effect to the amendment contained herein, no Amortization Event or Potential Amortization Event exists or will result from the execution of this Amendment.
SECTION 4. .
Reference to and Effect on the Receivables Purchase Agreement
4.l Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, each reference in the Receivables Purchase Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof", "herein" or words of like import shall mean and be a reference to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, as amended hereby, and each reference to the Receivables Purchase
Agreement in any and all other documents, instruments, agreements, notes, certificates and other writings of every kind and nature shall mean and be a reference to the Receivables Purchase Agreement as amended hereby.
4.2 Except as specifically amended above, the Receivables Purchase Agreement and all other documents, instruments and agreements executed and/or delivered in connection therewith shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed.
4.3 The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of any Purchaser or the Agent under the Receivables Purchase Agreement or any other document, instrument or agreement executed in connection therewith, nor constitute a waiver of any provision contained therein, except as specifically set forth herein.
4.4 Each party hereto agrees and acknowledges that this Amendment constitutes a "Transaction Document" under and as defined in the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
SECTION 5. . THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS (AND NOT THE LAW OF CONFLICTS) OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
GOVERNING LAW
SECTION 6. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute but one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of this Amendment by facsimile shall be deemed as effective as delivery of an originally executed counterpart. Any party delivering an executed counterpart of this Amendment by facsimile will also deliver an original executed counterpart, but the failure of any party to so deliver an original executed counterpart of this Amendment will not affect the validity or effectiveness of this Amendment.
Execution in Counterparts
SECTION 7. . This Amendment shall be binding upon each of the Seller Parties, the Purchasers and the Agent and their respective successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of each of the Seller Parties, the Purchasers and the Agent.
Successors and Assigns
SECTION 8. . Section headings in this Amendment are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Amendment for any other purpose.
Headings
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written.
 
The undersigned, TORCHMARK CORPORATION ("Torchmark"), hereby:
(a) acknowledges, and consents to, the execution of that certain Amendment No. 8 dated as of August 24, 2007 to the Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of December 21, 1999 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Receivables Purchase Agreement") among AILIC RECEIVABLES CORPORATION ("Seller"), AMERICAN INCOME LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY ("AIL"), as the initial Servicer, CHARIOT FUNDING LLC, SUCCESSOR BY ASSIGNMENT TO PREFERRED RECEIVABLES FUNDING COMPANY LLC ("Chariot"), the financial institutions party thereto as "Financial Institutions" and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., SUCCESSOR BY MERGER TO BANK ONE, NA (with headquarters in Chicago, Illinois), as "Agent";
(b) reaffirms all of its obligations under that certain Performance Guaranty (the "Performance Guaranty") dated as of December 21, 1999 and amended and restated as of March 31, 2000 made by Torchmark in favor of the Agent; and
(c) acknowledges and agrees that such Performance Guaranty remains in full force and effect (including, without limitation, with respect to the "Guaranteed Obligations" and "Obligations" (each as defined in the Performance Guaranty) after giving effect to the Amendment Documents), and such Performance Guaranty is hereby ratified and confirmed.
Dated: August 24, 2007
 


