FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20071219111847.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On December 13, 2007, the Board of Directors of Torchmark Corporation approved the Torchmark Corporation Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (the "Director Plan"), as a sub-plan of the Torchmark Corporation 2007 Long-Term Compensation Plan. The Director Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
SECTION 1. GENERAL PURPOSE OF PLAN; DEFINITIONS.
The name of this plan is the Torchmark Corporation Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). The purpose of the Plan is to enable Torchmark Corporation (the "Company") and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates to attract and retain directors who contribute to the Company's success by their ability, ingenuity and industry, and to enable such directors to participate in the long-term success and growth of the Company through an equity interest in the Company. The Plan is adopted to be effective as of January 1, 2008, and is intended to replace and supersede the Company's Amended and Restated 2005 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan.
The Plan is a subplan of the Torchmark Corporation 2007 Long-Term Compensation Plan (the "2007 Compensation Plan"). Capitalized terms used in the Plan but not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given such terms in the 2007 Compensation Plan. In addition, the following terms shall be defined for purposes of the Plan as set forth below:
"Annual Compensation" means the annual cash retainer and meeting fees payable by the Company to a Non-Employee Director for services as a director (and, if applicable, as the member or chairman of a committee of the Board) of the Company, as such amount may be changed from time to time. For purposes of an election under Section 6(c), (d) or (e) to receive Stock Options, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units in lieu of Annual Compensation, meeting fees will be estimated and deemed to be earned at the beginning of the year for all scheduled meetings during the year, whether or not the Grantee later attends such meetings.
"Award Notice" means a written award notice to a Non-Employee Director from the Company evidencing an award of Stock Options, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
"Beneficiary" means any person or persons designated by a Participant, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee or Plan Administrator, to receive benefits hereunder in the event of the Participant's death. If any Participant shall fail to designate a Beneficiary or shall designate a Beneficiary who shall fail to survive the Participant, the Beneficiary shall be the Participant's surviving spouse, or, if none, the Participant's surviving descendants (who shall take per stirpes) and if there are no surviving descendants, the Beneficiary shall be the Participant's estate.
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Business Day" shall mean a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or any national securities exchange or over-the-counter market on which the Stock is traded is open for business.
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor thereto.
"Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board. If at any time no Committee shall be in office, then the functions of the Committee specified in the Plan shall be exercised by the Board.
"Company" means Torchmark Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware (or any successor corporation).
"Election Date" means the date by which a Non-Employee Director must submit a valid Election Form to the Plan Administrator in order to participate under Section 6 of the Plan for a calendar year. For
each calendar year, the Election Date is December 31 of the preceding calendar year; provided, however, that the Election Date for a newly eligible Participant shall be the 30th day following the date on which such individual becomes a Non-Employee Director.
"Election Form" means an Election Form for Annual Compensation, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, pursuant to which a Non-Employee Director elects to defer Annual Compensation under the Plan or to convert Annual Compensation into Stock Options, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any successor thereto.
"Grantee" means a Non-Employee Director to whom a Stock Option, Restricted Stock, or Restricted Stock Unit has been granted.
"Interest Account" means the account established by the Company for each Non-Employee Director for Annual Compensation deferred pursuant to the Plan and which shall be credited with interest on the last day of each calendar quarter (or such other day as determined by Plan Administrator).
"Non-Employee Director" means a director of the Company who is not an employee of the Company or of any Subsidiary or Affiliate (as determined by the Committee).
"Participant" means any Non-Employee Director.
"Plan" means this Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan.
"Plan Administrator" means one or more agents to whom the Board shall have delegated administrative duties under the Plan or the Committee if no such delegation shall have occurred.
"Restricted Stock" means shares of Stock granted to a Participant under Section 6 that are subject to certain restrictions and to risk of forfeiture.
"Restricted Stock Unit" means the right granted to a Participant under Section 6 to receive shares of Stock in the future, which right is subject to certain restrictions and to risk of forfeiture.
"Stock" means the common stock of the Company.
"Stock Option" means any option to purchase shares of Stock granted pursuant to Section 5 or 6.
SECTION 2. ADMINISTRATION.
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have the discretionary authority to adopt, alter and repeal such administrative rules, guidelines and practices governing the Plan as it shall, from time to time, deem advisable; to construe and interpret the terms and provisions of the Plan and any award issued under the Plan (and any agreements relating thereto); and to otherwise supervise the administration of the Plan. The Committee will not have the authority to award Stock Options pursuant to Section 5(b) of the Plan; only the Board shall have this authority.
The Committee may delegate administrative duties under the Plan to one or more agents as it shall deem necessary or advisable. No member of the Committee or the Board or the Plan Administrator shall be personally liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Options, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, or to any settlement of any dispute between a Non-Employee Director and the Company.
 
All decisions made by the Board or the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final and binding on all persons, including the Company and Participants.
SECTION 3. SOURCE OF SHARES FOR THE PLAN.
The shares of Stock that may be issued pursuant to the Plan shall be issued under the 2007 Compensation Plan, subject to all of the terms and conditions of the 2007 Compensation Plan. The terms contained in the 2007 Compensation Plan are incorporated into and made a part of this Plan with respect to Stock Options, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant hereto and any such Stock Options, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the 2007 Compensation Plan. In the event of any actual or alleged conflict between the provisions of the 2007 Compensation Plan and the provisions of this Plan, the provisions of the 2007 Compensation Plan shall be controlling and determinative. This Plan does not constitute a separate source of shares for the grant of the equity awards described herein.
SECTION 4. ELIGIBILITY.
All Non-Employee Directors are eligible to participate in the Plan.
SECTION 5. STOCK OPTIONS.
Stock Options granted under the Plan are non-qualified Stock Options. Such Stock Options will be granted pursuant to the pre-established formula contained herein or may, in the sole discretion of the entire Board, be granted as to such number of shares and upon such terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Board. In addition, Non-Employee Directors may elect to receive Stock Options in lieu of Annual Compensation as provided in Section 6.
Stock Options granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Notice in such form as the Committee shall from time to time approve, which agreements shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 6. ELECTION TO RECEIVE STOCK OPTIONS, RESTRICTED STOCK OR RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS IN LIEU OF ANNUAL COMPENSATION OR TO DEFER ANNUAL COMPENSATION.
 
 
 
 
 
A = the dollar amount which the Non-Employee Director has elected to convert to Stock Options; and
B = the per share value of a Stock Option on the Option Grant Date, as determined by the Committee using any recognized option valuation model selected by the Board in its discretion (such value to be expressed as a percentage of the Fair Market Value per Share on the Option Grant Date).
In determining the number of shares subject to a Stock Option, (A) the Board may designate the assumptions to be used in the selected option valuation model, and (B) any fraction of a Share will be rounded up to the next whole number of Shares.
 
 
 
 
A = the dollar amount which the Non-Employee Director has elected to convert to shares of Restricted Stock; and
B = the Fair Market Value per Share on the Restricted Stock Grant Date.
 
In determining the number of shares of Restricted Stock, any fraction of a Share will be rounded up to the next whole number of Shares.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A = the dollar amount which the Non-Employee Director has elected to convert to Restricted Stock Units; and
B = the Fair Market Value per Share on the Restricted Stock Unit Grant Date.
In determining the number of Restricted Stock Units, any fraction of a Share will be rounded up to the next whole number of Shares.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 7. AMENDMENTS AND TERMINATION.
The Board may amend, alter, or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration, or discontinuation shall be made which would impair the right of a Participant or a Grantee of an award of Stock Options, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units heretofore granted, without the Participant's or Grantee's consent.
Amendments may be made without stockholder approval except as required to satisfy stock exchange listing requirements or other regulatory requirements.
The Board may amend the terms of any Stock Option, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit award (other than a Stock Option granted pursuant to Section 5(a) hereof) theretofore granted, prospectively or retroactively; provided, however, (a) no such amendment shall impair the rights of any holder without his/her consent; (b) the original term of a Stock Option may not be extended without prior approval of the stockholders of the Company; and (c) the exercise price of a Stock Option may not be reduced, directly or indirectly, without prior approval of the stockholders of the Company.
SECTION 8. UNFUNDED STATUS OF PLAN.
The Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant or Grantee by the Company, nothing set forth herein shall give any such Participant or Grantee any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company. In its sole discretion, the Committee may authorize the creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations created under the Plan to deliver Stock or payments in lieu of or with respect to awards hereunder, provided, however, that the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent with the unfunded status of the Plan.
SECTION 9. CHANGE IN CONTROL.
In the event of a "Change in Control," unless otherwise determined by the Board in writing at or after grant, but prior to the occurrence of such Change in Control, any Stock Options awarded under the Plan not previously exercisable and vested shall become fully exercisable and vested, and any Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units awarded under the Plan not previously vested shall become fully vested.
SECTION 10. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 11. EFFECTIVE DATE OF PLAN.
The Plan shall be effective as of January 1, 2008.
SECTION 12. TERM OF PLAN.
No Stock Options, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall be granted pursuant to the Plan on or after January 1, 2015, but awards theretofore granted may extend beyond that date.
 


