FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20081010163555.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 10, 2008, Torchmark Corporation issued a press release pre-announcing its third quarter 2008 financial results and disclosing the level of other than temporary impairment for its holdings in AIG, Lehman Brothers, Washington Mutual and Fannie Mae. A copy of the press release is incorporated herein by reference and is provided as Exhibit 99.1.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information included or incorporated in this report (including Exhibit 99.1) shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
(99.1) Torchmark Corporation Press Release dated October 10, 2008.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
McKinney, Texas, October 10, 2008Torchmark Corporation (NYSE: TMK) announced today its expected results for the third quarter of 2008.
Net income is expected to be approximately $63 million, or $.72 per share, compared to $1.41 for the third quarter of 2007. The decline in 2008 is due to a $70 million charge related to the other than temporary impairment of certain investments as discussed below.
Net operating income for the third quarter of 2008 is expected to be approximately $132 million, or $1.51 per share, slightly above street estimates, and a 9% increase over $1.38 for the year ago quarter. Net operating income is a non-GAAP financial measure commonly used by insurance companies to evaluate operating performance. It excludes certain non-operating items such as realized investment gains and losses and non-recurring items that are included in net income.
Other than temporary impairment
As indicated in its September 18, 2008 press release, Torchmark has holdings in debt issued by AIG, Lehman Brothers, and Washington Mutual of approximately $209 million, along with $2 million of preferred stock issued by Fannie Mae. Torchmark has determined that a portion of these investments are other than temporarily impaired, resulting in a writedown of approximately $93 million ($70 million after tax). In spite of this impairment, cash flows remain strong and Torchmark's capital is sufficient to support its current operations.
This impairment is computed in accordance with current mark-to-market accounting requirements, under which investments determined to be other than temporarily impaired are marked to their current fair value. We currently expect that the ultimate recovery value for these investments will exceed current fair value, and as a result, that the ultimate loss will be less than the current charge to income.
Torchmark will release third quarter earnings after the market closes on Wednesday, October 22, 2008, and will host its conference call at 11:00 a.m. on Thursday, October 23,
.
2008.
Torchmark Corporation is a holding company specializing in life and supplemental health insurance for "middle income" Americans marketed through multiple distribution channels including direct response, and exclusive and independent agencies. Torchmark has several nationally recognized insurance subsidiaries. Globe Life And Accident is a direct-response provider of life insurance known for its administrative efficiencies. American Income Life provides individual life insurance to labor union members. Liberty National Life, one of the oldest traditional life insurers in the Southeast, is the largest life insurer in its home state of Alabama. United American is a consumer-oriented provider of supplemental health insurance.
CAUTION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These prospective statements reflect management's current expectations, but are not guarantees of future performance. Accordingly, please refer to Torchmark's cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements, and the business environment in which the Company operates, contained in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission and on the Company's website at on the Investor Relations page. Torchmark specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement because of new information, future developments or otherwise.
www.torchmarkcorp.com
 
 


