FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20091204142437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors (the "Board") of Torchmark Corporation ("Torchmark"), in its continuing review of corporate governance matters, approved on October 22, 2009, subject to submission to Torchmark's stockholders for their approval at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, amendments to Torchmark's Restated By-Laws ("By-Laws") and Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"). If approved by Torchmark's stockholders, the amendments would (i) eliminate the supermajority voting provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws that currently require the approval of holders of 80% of Torchmark's outstanding common stock to amend Article II of the By-Laws (relating to stockholder meetings) and Article III of the By-Laws (relating to directors) and (ii) repeal in its entirety the "fair price" provisions set forth in Article TENTH of the Certificate of Incorporation which currently require the approval of holders of 80% of Torchmark's outstanding common stock for certain transactions involving Torchmark and persons owning 10% or more of Torchmark's voting stock unless certain conditions are satisfied. These proposed amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws were considered and approved, and recommended to the Board for approval, by the Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board.
In order to be approved, these proposed amendments to the By-Laws and Certificate of Incorporation require the affirmative vote of 80% of the voting power of Torchmark's shares of common stock entitled to vote in the election of directors. The full text of the proposed changes to the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws, along with a more detailed description of such changes, will be included in Torchmark's proxy statement with respect to the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
If Torchmark's stockholders approve the elimination of the supermajority voting provisions, the principal effect would be that Articles II and III of the By-Laws could be amended, altered or repealed upon approval either by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board or the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Torchmark stock entitled to vote at a stockholders meeting, as is currently the case with respect to all provisions of the By-Laws other than Articles II and III. If the supermajority provisions are eliminated, the Board may consider making further changes to the By-Laws which the Board believes represent improvements in Torchmark's corporate governance, such as, but not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
In connection with the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, Torchmark will be filing a proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Pursuant to the proxy statement, Torchmark's Board of Directors will be soliciting proxies from Torchmark's stockholders in order to approve, among other things, the proposed amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws. STOCKHOLDERS ARE ADVISED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE BECAUSE IT WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. The proxy statement (when it becomes available) and other relevant documents may be obtained free of charge by accessing the SEC's web site at , from Torchmark's website, , or by directing a request to Torchmark, Investor Relations, 3700 South Stonebridge Drive, McKinney, Texas 75070.
http://www.sec.gov
http://www.torchmarkcorp.com/investment.html
Torchmark and certain persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies relating to the proposed amendments to Torchmark's Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws. The participants in such
 
solicitation may include Torchmark's executive officers and directors. Further information regarding persons who may be deemed participants is set forth in the proxy statement for Torchmark's 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on March 18, 2009, and will be available in Torchmark's proxy statement to be filed with the SEC in connection with the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
This Current Report on Form 8-K may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These prospective statements reflect management's current expectations, but are not guarantees of future results, performance or achievements. Accordingly, please refer to Torchmark's cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements, and the risk factors applicable to Torchmark's business, that are contained in Torchmark's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 25, 2009 and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the SEC and on the Investor Relations page of Torchmark's website at . Torchmark specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement because of new information, future developments or otherwise.
http://www.torchmarkcorp.com/investment.html
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


