FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20100505170443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(b) Director Joseph L. Lanier, Jr. reached the mandatory director retirement age of 78 and retired from the Board of Directors on April 29, 2010.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or By-Laws; Changes in Fiscal Year
Amendments to Torchmark's Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws removing the "supermajority voting" provisions and to its Certificate of Incorporation deleting in their entirety the "fair price" provisions were approved by the requisite shareholder vote on April 29, 2010. The amendments to the By-Laws removing the "supermajority voting" provisions became effective upon the shareholder approval. A Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on April 29, 2010 and became effective upon its filing. Thereafter, a Restated Certificate of Incorporation was also filed on April 29, 2010 with the Delaware Secretary of State and became effective on its filing. The Torchmark Corporation Board of Directors reaffirmed on April 29, 2010, amendments to the By-Laws providing for a phased declassification of the Board of Directors (the Declassification Amendment) and the Declassification Amendment to the Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company became effective April 30, 2010.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
None.
 
None.
 
None.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1.1
Torchmark Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), does hereby certify as follows:
1. The below amendments to the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and stockholders of the Corporation in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
2. Article SIXTH of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended, of the Corporation is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
SIXTH: The Board of Directors is expressly authorized and empowered to make, alter, amend and repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation.
3. Article TENTH of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended, of the Corporation is hereby deleted in its entirety.
4. Article ELEVENTH of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended, of the Corporation is hereby renumbered as Article TENTH.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Torchmark Corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be executed by its duly authorized officer, this 29th day of April, 2010.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1.2
The present name of the corporation is Torchmark Corporation. The corporation was incorporated under the name of Liberty National Insurance Holding Company by the filing of its original Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on November 29, 1979. A Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on November 3, 1987. This Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation only restates and integrates and does not further amend the provisions of the corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation as heretofore amended or supplemented, and there is no discrepancy between the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation as heretofore amended and supplemented and the provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation. This Restated Certificate of Incorporation was duly adopted by the corporation's Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and reads as follows:
FIRST: The name of the corporation (which is hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation") is:
SECOND: The registered office of the Corporation is to be located at the Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, in the county of New Castle, in the State of Delaware (19801). The name of the Corporation's registered agent at that address is The Corporation Trust Company.
THIRD: The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
FOURTH: The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue shall be three hundred twenty-five million (325,000,000), of which five million (5,000,000) shares are to be Preferred Stock of the par value of one dollar ($1.00) each; and three hundred twenty million (320,000,000) shares are to be Common Stock, of the par value of one dollar ($1.00) each.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH, the following series of Preferred Stock have been designated, each such series consisting of such number of shares, with such voting powers and with such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions therefor as are stated and expressed in Exhibit A and Exhibit B attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference:
 
 
FIFTH: Unless and except to the extent that the By-Laws of the Corporation shall so require, the election of directors of the Corporation need not be by written ballot.
SIXTH: The Board of Directors is expressly authorized and empowered to make, alter, amend and repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation.
SEVENTH: Any director or any officer of the Corporation elected or appointed by the stockholders of the Corporation or by its Board of Directors may be removed at any time in such manner as shall be provided in the By-Laws of the Corporation.
EIGHTH: No holder of Preferred Stock or Common Stock of the Corporation shall have any preemptive right as such holder (other than such right, if any, as the Board of Directors in its discretion may by resolution determine pursuant to this Article Eighth) to purchase, subscribe for or otherwise acquire any shares of stock of the Corporation of any class now or hereafter authorized, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for any such shares, or any warrants or any instruments evidencing rights or options to subscribe for, purchase or otherwise acquire any such shares, whether such shares, securities, warrants or other instruments are now, or shall hereafter be, authorized, unissued or issued and thereafter acquired by the Corporation.
NINTH:
Section 1. Elimination of Certain Liability of Directors.
A director of the Company shall not be personally liable to the Company or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Company or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit.
Section 2. Indemnification and Insurance.
(a) Right to Indemnification. Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer, of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another company or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other
 
capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Company to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Company to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that, except as provided in paragraph (b) hereof, the Company shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Company. The right to indemnification conferred in this Section shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Company the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Company of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section or otherwise. The Company may, by action of its Board of Directors, provide indemnification to employees and agents of the Company with the same scope and effect as the foregoing indemnification of directors and officers.
(b) Right of Claimant to Bring Suit. If a claim under paragraph (a) of this Section is not paid in full by the Company within thirty days after a written claim has been received by the Company, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Company to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Company) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the Delaware General Corporation Law for the Company to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Company. Neither the failure of the Company (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Company (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
 
(c) Non-Exclusivity of Rights. The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Section shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
(d) Insurance. The Company may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or another company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any such expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
TENTH: The Corporation reserves the right at any time from time to time to amend, alter, change, or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation, and other provisions authorized by the laws of the State of Delaware at the time in force and not inconsistent with the provisions in this Certificate of Incorporation or in the By-Laws may be added or inserted in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by law. All rights, preferences, privileges of whatsoever nature conferred upon stockholders, directors or any other persons whosoever by and pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation in its present form or as hereafter amended are granted subject to the rights reserved in this Article.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Torchmark Corporation has caused this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this 30th day of April, 2010.
 
 
Exhibit A
Section 1. .
Designation and Amount
The shares of such series shall be designated as "6
 1
/
2
 % Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series "A"(the "Preferred Stock") and shall have a face value of $1,000.00 per share. The number of shares constituting such series shall be 330,000.
Section 2. .
Dividends and Distributions
Holders of Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board of Directors of the Company out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, cumulative cash dividends at the rate of 6
 1
/
2
% of the face value per share per annum from the date of issuance to and including perpetuity. Dividends on the Preferred Stock will accrue from the date of issuance and will be payable semi-annually on June 30 and December 31 of each year (or, if such day is not a business day, then the next preceding business day) to the holders of record on such respective dates, not exceeding 30 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be determined by the Board of Directors. The first dividend will be payable June 30, 1998. The dividends payable on the Preferred Stock for the period from the date of issuance to and including perpetuity and for any period less than a full semi-annual dividend period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months and the actual number of days elapsed in the period for which the dividends are payable. The dividends payable for each full semi-annual period commencing after June 30, 1998 shall be computed by dividing the annual dividend rate for such dividend period by four and applying the resulting rate against the face value per share of the Preferred Stock.
No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on the preferred stock of any series ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with the Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been, or contemporaneously are, declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart for such payment on the Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full upon the Preferred Stock and any other preferred stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Preferred Stock, all dividends declared and paid or set aside for payment upon shares of Preferred Stock and any other preferred stock ranking on a parity as to dividends shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared and paid or set aside for payment per share on the Preferred Stock and such other preferred stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of Preferred Stock and such other preferred stock bear to each other.
 
Except as provided in Section 3 hereof, in the event that full cumulative semi-annual dividends on the Preferred Stock have not been declared and paid or set apart for payment, the Company may not declare or pay any dividend on, or make any distribution on, or payment on account of the purchase, redemption or other retirement of, its Common Stock or any other stock of the Company ranking as to dividends junior to the Preferred Stock, except that dividends may be declared and paid, and distributions and payments may be made, in shares of, or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or other stock ranking as to dividends and upon distribution of assets junior to the Preferred Stock. No interest shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment which may be in arrears.
Section 3. .
Liquidation Preference
Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of all of the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock shall have preference and priority over the Common Stock, or any other class of stock of the Company ranking upon liquidation junior to the Preferred Stock, for payment out of the assets of the Company or proceeds thereof, of $1,000.00 per share plus an amount equal to all dividends accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution to such holders, and after such payment the holders of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to no other payments. If, in the case of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, the assets of the Company or proceeds thereof shall be insufficient to make the full liquidation payment of $1,000.00 per share plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends on the Preferred Stock and the full liquidation payments on any other preferred stock ranking as to liquidation on a parity with the Preferred Stock, then such assets and proceeds shall be distributed among the holders of the Preferred Stock and any such other preferred stock ratably in accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable on such shares of Preferred Stock and any such other preferred stock if all amounts thereon were to be paid in full. A consolidation or merger with, or sale or lease of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to, one or more corporations shall not be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.
Section 4. .
Redemption
The Company, at is option, may redeem shares of Preferred Stock, as a whole or in part in multiples of $1,000,000 on or after the date of issuance at a price of $1,000.00 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends to the date fixed for redemption, upon not less than 30 days' notice. The Company may not redeem less than all the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock unless full cumulative dividends have been paid for all-outstanding shares of Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods.
In the event the Company shall redeem shares of Preferred Stock, notice of such redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 days prior to the redemption date, to each holder of record of the shares to be redeemed, at such holder's address as the same appears on the stock register of the Company. Each such notice shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; (4) the place or places where certificates
 
for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (5) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date. Notice having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the redemption date (unless default shall be made by the Company in providing money for the payment of the redemption price) dividends on the shares of the Preferred Stock so called for redemption shall cease to accrue, and said shares shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holders thereof as stockholders of the Company (except the right to receive from the Company the redemption price) shall cease. Upon surrender in accordance with said notice of the certificates for any shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Company at the redemption price aforesaid. If less than all the outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, shares to be redeemed shall be selected by the Company from outstanding shares of Preferred Stock not previously called for redemption by lot or pro rata (as nearly as may be) or by any other method determined by the Company in its sole discretion to be equitable. A new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without cost to the holder thereof.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 4, if any dividends on the Preferred Stock are in arrears, no shares of the Preferred Stock shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock are simultaneously redeemed, and the Company shall not purchase or otherwise acquire any shares of such Series; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or however, that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of the Preferred Stock pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same terms to holders of all outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock.
All shares of the Preferred Stock redeemed by the Company shall be retired and cancelled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued.
Notwithstanding the Company's right to redeem the Preferred Stock, the Company shall have no obligation to repurchase or retire the Preferred Stock by sinking fund or otherwise.
Section 5. .
Conversion, Preemptive Rights, Exchange
The holders of shares of the Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such shares into or exchange such shares for shares of any other class or classes or of any other series of any class or classes of capital stock of the Company. The holders of the Preferred Stock shall not have any preemptive rights.
Section 6. .
Voting Rights
Holders of the Preferred Stock will not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law. If, on the date used to determine stockholders of record for any meeting of stockholders of the Company at which directors are to be elected, dividends on the Preferred Stock or any other series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock as to dividends shall be in arrears in an amount equal to at least three semi-annual dividends (whether or not consecutive) the holders of the Preferred Stock (voting
 
separately as a class with all other affected series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) will be entitled to vote and elect two directors of the Company. Such right to elect directors shall remain in effect until all dividend payments on the Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or set apart for payment. Until the default in payments of all dividends which permitted the election of said directors shall cease to exist, any director who shall have been so elected pursuant to the next preceding sentence may be removed at any time, either with or without cause, only by the affirmative vote of the holders of the shares at the time entitled to cast a majority of the votes entitled to be cast for the election of any such director at a special meeting of such holders called for that purpose, and any vacancy thereby created may be filled by the vote of such holders. The right of the holders of the Preferred Stock to elect directors shall remain in effect until all dividends payable on the Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or set apart for payment. The term of office of all directors so elected shall terminate immediately upon the termination of the right to vote for directors of the holders of the Preferred Stock and of the holders of all other such series of preferred stock. Each holder of Preferred Stock will have one vote for each share held.
Without the consent or affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class with all other affected series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock either as to dividends or upon liquidation, the Company shall not authorize, create or issue, or increase the authorized amount of, any class or series of stock ranking prior to the Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class with all other shares of the same class, will be required for any amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger or consolidation or otherwise, of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or any certificate supplemental thereto if the amendment, alteration or repeal adversely affects the preferences, rights, powers or privileges of the Preferred Stock and any other shares of the same class; provided, however, that in any case in which one or more, but not all, series of such class would be adversely affected as to the preferences, rights, powers or privileges thereof, the affirmative vote of the holders of shares entitled to cast at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the shares of all series that would be adversely affected, voting as a class, shall be required, and the holders of shares of any series that would not be adversely affected shall not be entitled to vote thereon. The Company's Certificate of Incorporation may be amended to increase the number of authorized shares of common or preferred stock ranking on a parity with or junior to the Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of Preferred Stock.
 
Exhibit B
Section 1. .
Designation and Amount
The shares of such series shall be designated as 7.15% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series "A" (the "Preferred Stock") and shall have a face value of $1,000.00 per share. The number of shares constituting such series shall be 100,000.
Section 2. .
Dividends and Distributions
Holders of Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive when and as declared by the Board of Directors of the Company out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, cumulative cash dividends at the rate of 7.15% of the face value per share per annum from the date of issuance to and including perpetuity. Dividends on the Preferred Stock will accrue from the date of issuance and will be payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year (or, if such day is not a business day, then the next preceding business day) to the holders of record on such respective dates, not exceeding 30 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be determined by the Board of Directors. The first dividend will be payable November 15, 2000. The dividends payable on the Preferred Stock for the period from the date of issuance to and including perpetuity and for any period less than a full semi-annual dividend period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months and the actual number of days elapsed in the period for which the dividends are payable. The dividends payable for each full semi-annual period commencing after November 15, 2000 shall be computed by dividing the annual dividend rate for such dividend period by four and applying the resulting rate against the face value per share of the Preferred Stock.
No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on the preferred stock of any series ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with the Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been, or contemporaneously are, declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart for such payment on the Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full upon the Preferred Stock and any other preferred stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Preferred Stock, all dividends declared and paid or set aside for payment upon shares of Preferred Stock and any other preferred stock ranking on a parity as to dividends shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared and paid or set aside for payment per share on the Preferred Stock and such other preferred stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of Preferred Stock and such other preferred stock bear to each other.
 
Except as provided in Section 3 hereof, in the event that full cumulative semi-annual dividends on the Preferred Stock have not been declared and paid or set apart for payment, the Company may not declare or pay any dividend on, or make any distribution on, or payment on account of the purchase, redemption or other retirement of, its Common Stock or any other stock of the Company ranking as to dividends junior to the Preferred Stock, except that dividends may be declared and paid, and distributions and payments may be made, in shares of, or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or other stock ranking as to dividends and upon distribution of assets junior to the Preferred Stock. No interest shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment which may be in arrears.
Section 3. .
Liquidation Preference
Upon any litigation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of all of the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock shall have preference and priority over the Common Stock, or any other class of stock of the Company ranking upon liquidation junior to the Preferred Stock, for payment out of the assets of the Company or proceeds thereof, of $1,000.00 per share plus any amount equal to all dividends accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution to such holders, and after such payment the holders of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to no other payments. If, in the case of any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, the assets of the Company or proceeds thereof shall be insufficient to make the full liquidation payment of $1,000.00 per share plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends on the Preferred Stock and the full liquidation on a parity with the Preferred Stock, then such assets and proceeds shall be distributed among the holders of the Preferred Stock and any such other preferred stock ratably in accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable on such shares of Preferred Stock and any such other preferred stock if all amounts thereon were to be paid in full. A consolidation or merger with, or sale or lease of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to, one or more corporations shall not be deemed to be liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.
Section 4. .
Redemption
The Company, at its option, may redeem shares of Preferred Stock, as a whole or in part in multiples or $1,000,000 on or after the date of issuance at a price of $1,000.00 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends to the date fixed for redemption, upon not less than 30 days notice. The Company may not redeem less than all the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock unless full cumulative dividends have been paid for all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods.
In the event the Company shall redeem shares of Preferred Stock notice of such redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 days prior to the redemption date, to each holder of record of the shares to be redeemed, at such holder's address as the same appears on the stock register of the Company. Each such notice shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (5) that dividends
 
on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date. Notice having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the redemption date (unless default shall be made by the Company in providing money for the payment of the redemption price) dividends on the shares of the Preferred Stock so called for redemption shall cease to accrue, and said shares shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holders thereof as stockholders of the Company (except the right to receive from the Company the redemption price) shall cease. Upon surrender in accordance with said notice of the certificates for any shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Company at the redemption price aforesaid. If less than all the outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, shares to be redeemed shall be selected by the Company from outstanding shares of Preferred Stock not previously called for redemption by lot or pro rata (as nearly as may be) or by any other method determined by the Company in its sole discretion to be equitable. A new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without cost to the holder thereof.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 4, if any dividends on the Preferred Stock are in arrears, no shares of the Preferred Stock shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock are simultaneously redeemed, and the Company shall not purchase or otherwise acquire any shares of such Series; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of the Preferred Stock pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same terms to holders of all outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock.
All shares of the Preferred Stock redeemed by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status or authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued.
Notwithstanding the Company's right to redeem the Preferred Stock, the Company shall have no obligation to repurchase or retire the Preferred Stock by sinking fund or otherwise.
Section 5. .
Conversion, Preemptive Rights, Exchange
The holders of shares of the Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such shares into or exchange such shares for shares of any other class or classes or of any other series of any class or classes of capital stock of the Company. The holders of the Preferred Stock shall not have any preemptive rights.
Section 6. .
Voting Rights
Holders of the Preferred Stock will not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law. If, on the date used to determine stockholders of record for any meeting of stockholders of the Company at which directors are to be elected, dividends on the Preferred Stock or any other series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock as to dividends shall be in arrears in an amount equal to at least three semi-annual dividends (whether or not consecutive) the holders of the Preferred Stock (voting separately as a class with all other affected series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the
 
Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) will be entitled to vote and elect two directors of the Company. Such right to elect directors shall remain in effect until all dividend payments on the Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or set apart for payment. Until the default in payments of all dividends which permitted the election of said directors shall cease to exist, any director who shall have been so elected pursuant to the next preceding sentence may be removed at any time, either with or without cause, only by the affirmative vote of the holders of the shares at the time entitled to case a majority of the votes entitled to be cast for the election of any such director at a special meeting of such holders called for that purpose, and any vacancy thereby created may be filled by the vote of such holders. The right of the holders of the Preferred Stock to elect directors shall remain in effect until all dividends payable on the Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or set apart for payment. The term of office of all directors to elected shall terminate immediately upon the termination of the right to vote for directors of the holders of the Preferred Stock and of the holders of all other such series of preferred stock. Each holder of Preferred Stock will have one vote for each share held.
Without the consent or affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class with all other affected series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock either as to dividends or upon liquidation, the Company shall not authorize, create or issue, or increase the authorized amount of, any class or series of stock ranking prior to the Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation. The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class with all other shares of the same class, will be required for any amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger or consolidation or otherwise, of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or any certificate supplemental thereto if the amendment, alteration or repeal adversely affects the preferences, rights, powers or privileges of the Preferred Stock and any other shares of the same class; provided, however, that in any case in which one or more, but not all, series of such class would be adversely affected as to the preferences, rights, powers or privileges thereof, the affirmative vote of the holders of shares entitled to case at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be case by the holders of shares of any series that would not be adversely affected shall not be entitled to vote to increase the number of authorized shares of common or preferred stock ranking on a parity with or junior to the Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation without the vote of the holders of outstanding shares of Preferred Stock.
 

Exhibit 3.2
As amended April 30, 2010
Section 1. Registered Office:
The registered office shall be established and maintained at the office of the The Corporation Trust Company, in the city of Wilmington, in the County of New Castle, in the State of Delaware, and said Corporation shall be the registered agent of this Corporation in charge thereof.
Section 2. Other Offices:
The Corporation may have other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, at such place or places as the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint or the business of the Corporation may require. The principal place of business of the Corporation shall be in McKinney, Texas.
Section 1. Stockholder Action:
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such stockholders. Special meetings of stockholders of the Corporation may be called only by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, upon not less than ten nor more than sixty days' written or electronic notice.
Section 2. Annual Meetings:
Annual meetings of stockholders for the election of directors and for such other business as may be stated in the notice of the meeting, shall be held at such place, either within or without the state of Delaware, or by means of remote communication, and at such time and date as the Board of Directors, by resolution, shall determine and as set forth in the notice of the meeting. In the event the Board of Directors fails to so determine the time, date and place of meeting, if any, the annual meeting of stockholders shall be held at the principal executive offices of the Corporation in Texas on the last Thursday of April.
If the date of the annual meeting shall fall upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held on the next succeeding business day. At each annual meeting, the stockholders entitled to vote shall elect members of the Board of Directors, and they may transact such other corporate business as may properly come before the meeting.
Section 3. Voting:
Each stockholder entitled to vote in accordance with the terms of the Certificate of Incorporation and in accordance with the provisions of these By-Laws shall be entitled to one vote, in person or by proxy, for each share of stock entitled to vote held by such stockholder, but no proxy shall be voted after eleven (11) months from its date unless such proxy provides for a longer period. Any stockholder proxy may be prepared, transmitted and delivered in any manner permitted by applicable law. Such proxy shall be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation before or at the time of the meeting. Upon the demand of any stockholder, the vote for directors and the vote upon any question before the meeting shall be by ballot, and if authorized by the Board of Directors, the ballot may be submitted by electronic transmission in the manner provided by law. All elections for directors shall be decided by a plurality vote; all other questions shall be decided by a majority vote except as otherwise provided by these By-Laws, the Certificate of Incorporation or the laws of the State of Delaware.
A complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the ensuing election, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of each, and the number of shares held by each, shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either on a reasonably accessible electronic network as permitted by law (provided that the information required to gain access to the list is provided with the notice of the meeting) or at the principal place of business of the Corporation. If the meeting is held at a place, the list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. If the meeting is held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access the list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting.
Section 4. Quorum:
A majority of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at meetings of stockholders. In determining whether a quorum is present, shares held by a subsidiary corporation owned by this Corporation, and treasury shares, shall not be counted. If less than a majority of the outstanding shares are represented, a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice, but until a quorum is secured no other business may be transacted. The stockholders present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until an adjournment notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum. At any duly organized meeting, except as otherwise provided by these By-Laws or in the Certificate of Incorporation, a vote of a majority of the stock represented thereat shall decide any question brought before the meeting.
Section 5. Notice of Meetings:
Notice, stating the place, if any, date and time of the meeting, the means of remote communication, if any, by which the stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, and the general nature of the business to be considered, shall be given in writing or by electronic transmission in the manner provided by law (including without limitation, as set forth in Article VI, Section 10 of these By-laws) to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting. No business other than that stated in the notice shall be transacted at any meeting without the unanimous consent of all the stockholders entitled to vote thereat.
 
Section 6. Order of Business:
The order of business at the annual meeting and, as far as practicable, at all other meetings of the stockholders shall be as follows:
1. Calling of roll.
2. Proof of due notice of meeting.
3. Reading and disposal of any unapproved minutes.
4. Reports of officers and committees.
5. Election of directors.
6. Unfinished business.
7. New business.
8. Adjournment.
Section 1. Number, Election and Terms:
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of not less than seven nor more than 15 persons. The exact number of directors within the minimum and maximum limitations specified in the preceding sentence shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. Commencing at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, directors whose terms have expired shall be elected annually for terms expiring at the next annual meeting following their election and shall remain in office until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified, except that any director in office at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders whose term expires at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 2012 or 2013 shall serve the remainder of the term for which such director was elected and shall remain in office until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified. Accordingly, at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders and shall remain in office until such directors' successors shall have been elected and qualified. At the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders and shall remain in office until such directors' successors shall have been elected and qualified. At each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and shall remain in office until such directors' successors shall have been elected and qualified.
Section 2. Resignations:
Any director, member of a committee or other officer may resign at any time. Such resignation shall be made in writing, and shall take effect at the time of its receipt by the Chief Executive Officer or Secretary or at such other time as may be specified therein. The acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Section 3. Newly Created Directorships and Vacancies:
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred stock then outstanding, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause shall be filled by a majority vote of the directors then in office, or if all of the directors shall
 
have been removed, by a majority vote of the stockholders, and any director so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders following the filling of such vacancy and shall remain in office until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified; provided that a director appointed to fill such a vacancy on or before the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders shall serve for the remainder of the term of such director's predecessor and shall remain in office until such director's successor is elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
If the office of any member of a committee or other officer becomes vacant, the directors in office, by a majority vote, may appoint any qualified person to fill such vacancy, who shall hold office for the unexpired term and until his successor shall be duly chosen.
Subject in each case to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, (a) any director serving a term that does not expire at the next annual meeting of stockholders following such director's election by stockholders or appointment to fill a vacancy may be removed from office only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon and (b) any other director may be removed from office, with or without cause, upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon.
If the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding are entitled to elect one or more directors, these provisions shall not apply, in respect to the removal of a director or directors so elected, to the vote of the holders of the outstanding shares of that series and the rights of the holders of such shares shall be as set out in the Certificate of Designations, Preferences & Rights for such shares.
Section 4. Powers:
The Board of Directors shall exercise all the powers of the Corporation except such as are by law, or by the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or by these By-Laws conferred upon or reserved to the stockholders.
Section 5. Election of Committee Members:
At each regular annual meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors may, by resolution or resolutions passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate directors to serve as members of the executive committee, the compensation committee, and the audit committee until the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors and until their successors are duly designated. At any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors may elect additional advisors for these committees. Such advisors may or may not be members of the Board of Directors and shall serve until the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors or for the period of time designated by the Board. The Board of Directors may from time to time provide for such other committees as may be deemed necessary and assign to such committees such authority and duties as are appropriate and allowed by Delaware law.
Section 6. Meetings:
The directors may hold their annual meeting for the purpose of organization and the transaction of business, if a quorum be present, immediately after the annual meeting of the stockholders; or the time and place of such meeting may be fixed by consent in writing of all the directors.
Regular meetings of the directors may be held without notice at such places and times as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the directors.
 
Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chief Executive Officer at any time or by the Secretary on the written request of any two directors upon at least twelve hours personal notice to each director. For purposes of this paragraph, personal notice shall be deemed given if telephonic notice is given to the business office of a director during normal business hours (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.) in the respective time zone in which the director's office is located. Such special meetings shall be held at such place or places as may be determined by the Chief Executive Officer or the directors calling the meeting, and shall be stated in the notice of the call of the meeting.
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
Section 7. Quorum:
A majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum is obtained, and no further notice thereof need be given other than by announcement at the meeting which shall be so adjourned.
Section 8. Compensation:
Directors shall not receive any stated salary for their services as directors or as members of committees, except that by resolution of the Board of Directors, retainer fees, meeting fees, expenses of attendance at meetings and other benefits and payments may be authorized. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent or otherwise, and receiving compensation therefore.
Section 9. Action without Meeting:
Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting, if prior to such action a written consent thereto is signed by all members of the Board of Directors, or of such committee as the case may be, and such written consent is filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Section 1. Compensation Committee:
The Board of Directors may elect from its own membership a compensation committee of not less than three nor more than eight members whose chairman shall also be named by the directors. The compensation committee shall prescribe the compensation of all persons who are deemed to be "executive officers" (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and any employees of the Corporation or its subsidiaries who earn a salary and bonus totaling $500,000 or more per year. The compensation of all other officers of the Corporation shall be determined by the Chief Executive Officer. The compensation committee shall also perform such other duties not inconsistent with the spirit and purpose of the committee as are delegated to it by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 2. Audit Committee:
The audit committee shall consist of not less than three nor more than eight members elected by the directors from among their own number. The audit committee shall appoint the firm to be employed by the Corporation as its external auditor; shall consult with the persons chosen to be the external auditors with regard to the plan of audit; shall review and approve the fees of the external auditors for audit and non-audit services; shall review, in consultation with the external auditors, their report of audit, or proposed report of audit, and the accompanying management letter, if any; shall review with management and the external auditor before publication or issuance, the annual financial statement, and any annual reports to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; shall consult with the external auditors (periodically, as appropriate, out of the presence of management) with regard to the adequacy of the internal auditing and general accounting functions of the Corporation; shall consult with the internal auditors (periodically, as appropriate, out of the presence of management) with regard to cooperation of corporate divisions with the internal auditing and accounting departments and the adequacy of corporate systems of accounting and controls; shall serve as a communications liaison between the Board of Directors, the external auditors, and the internal auditors; and shall perform such other duties not inconsistent with the spirit and purpose of the committee as are delegated to it by the Board of Directors.
Section 3. Governance and Nominating Committee:
The governance and nominating committee shall consist of not less than three members elected by the directors from among their own number. The governance and nominating committee shall receive and evaluate the names and qualifications of potential director candidates, identify individuals qualified to become members of the Board of Directors consistent with criteria set by the Board of Directors and recommend director nominees to the Board of Directors, recommend the directors to be appointed to committees of the Board of Directors and to be appointed as the committee chairs, develop and recommend to the Board of Directors a set of governance guidelines for the Corporation, monitor and annually evaluate how effectively the Board of Directors and the Corporation have implemented the corporate governance guidelines, oversee evaluations of the Board of Directors and management, and perform such other duties not inconsistent with the spirit and purpose of the committee as are delegated to it by the Board of Directors.
Section 4. Meetings:
Meetings of the compensation committee, the audit committee and the governance and nominating committee shall be held on call of the chairman of the board or any committee member. Meetings may be held informally, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting. A majority of the members of a committee shall constitute a quorum.
Section 5. Action without Meeting:
Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of a committee of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if, prior to such action, all of the members of the committee consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the committee.
 
Section 1. Officers:
The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chief Executive Officer, such Vice-Presidents as shall from time to time be deemed necessary, a Secretary, and such other officers as may be deemed appropriate. A Chairman of the Board and a Vice Chairman of the Board may also be elected. All such officers shall be elected by the Board of Directors and shall hold office until their successors are elected and qualified. None of the officers of the Corporation need be directors. More than one office may be held by the same person.
Section 2. Chairman of the Board:
The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and stockholders. He shall have and perform such duties as usually devolve upon his office and such other duties as are prescribed by the By-Laws and by the Board of Directors.
Section 3. Vice Chairman of the Board:
The Vice Chairman of the Board shall in the absence or inability to act of the Chairman of the Board preside at all meetings of the stockholders and directors, and exercise and discharge the responsibilities and duties of the Chairman of the Board. He shall have and perform such other duties as may be prescribed or assigned by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board.
Section 4. Chief Executive Officer:
Subject to the control of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer shall be vested with authority to act for the Corporation, and shall have general and active management of the business of the Corporation and such other general powers and duties of supervision and management as usually devolve upon such office and as may be prescribed by the By-Laws and from time to time by the Board of Directors. In the absence or inability to act of the Chairman of the Board and the Vice Chairman of the Board or if the offices of Chairman of the Board and Vice Chairman of the Board shall be vacant, the Chief Executive Officer shall have and exercise all the powers and duties of such office. If the Chairman of the Board, Vice Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer is absent from any meeting of the Board of Directors or stockholders where either was to have presided, the other directors shall elect one of their number to preside at the meeting.
Section 5. Vice Presidents:
The Vice Presidents shall perform such duties as may be assigned to them from time to time by the By-Laws, the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 6. Secretary:
The Secretary shall keep minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors unless otherwise directed by those bodies. He/She shall have custody of the corporate seal, and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary shall affix the same to all instruments or papers requiring the seal of the corporation. The Secretary, or in his/her absence, any Assistant Secretary, shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the Corporation. He/She shall perform all the duties incident to the office of Secretary, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, and shall do and perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Board of Directors, the Chairman, or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
Section 7. Other Officers and Agents:
The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers and agents as it may deem advisable, who shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Section 8. Election and Term:
The officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the first meeting held after each annual meeting of stockholders. Each officer shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Directors until his death, resignation, retirement, or removal. Any officer may be elected by the Board of Directors at other than annual meetings to serve until the first meeting of the Board of Directors held after the annual meeting of stockholders next following his election.
Section 1. Certificates of Stock:
The shares of stock of the Corporation may be either represented by certificates or uncertificated shares. Certificates representing shares of the Corporation shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. Any certificate of stock shall be signed by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board, the President or Vice-President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and shall certify the number of shares owned by the stockholder in the Corporation. Any or all of the signatures may be facsimiles.
Section 2. Lost Certificates:
The Board of Directors may order a new certificate or certificates of stock to be issued in the place of any certificate or certificates of the Corporation alleged to have been lost or destroyed, but in every such case the owner of the lost certificate or certificates shall first cause to be given to the Corporation or its authorized agent a bond in such sum as said Board may direct, as indemnity against any loss that the Corporation may incur by reason of such replacement of the lost certificate or certificates; but the Board of Directors may, at their discretion refuse to replace any lost certificate of stock save upon the order of some court having jurisdiction in such matter and may cause such legend to be inscribed on the new certificate or certificates as in the Board's discretion may be necessary to prevent loss to the Corporation.
Section 3. Transfer of Shares:
The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be transferable only upon its books by the holders thereof in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives, and upon such transfer the old certificates shall be surrendered to the Corporation by the delivery thereof to the person in charge of the stock and transfer books, and ledgers, or to the authorized agent of the Corporation, by whom they shall be cancelled, and new certificates shall thereupon be issued. A record shall be made of each transfer and whenever a transfer shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer. The Corporation may decline to register on its stock books transfers of stock standing in the name of infants, unless (a) the law of the state of which the infant is a resident relieves the Corporation of all liability therefore in case the infant or anyone acting for him thereafter elects to rescind such transfer, or (b) a court having jurisdiction of the infant and the subject matter enters a valid decree authorizing such transfer.
Section 4. Fractional Shares:
No fractional part of a share of stock shall ever be issued by this Corporation.
 
Section 5. Stockholders Record Date:
In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Section 6. Dividends:
Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may, out of funds legally available therefore at any regular or special meeting, declare dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation as and when they deem expedient. Before declaring any dividend there may be set apart out of any fund of the Corporation available for dividends, such sum or sums as the directors from time to time in their discretion deem proper for working capital or as a reserve fund to meet contingencies or for equalizing dividends or for such other purposes as the directors shall deem conducive to the interests of the Corporation.
The corporation may decline to pay cash dividends to infant stockholders except where full and valid release may be granted by the infant or under a decree of court of competent jurisdiction.
Section 7. Seal:
The corporate seal shall consist of two concentric circles between which shall be "TORCHMARK CORPORATION DELAWARE" with a representation of the Corporate Logogram in the center.
Section 8. Fiscal Year:
The Fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 9. Checks:
All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or agents of the Corporation, and in such manner as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 10. Notice and Waiver of Notice:
Whenever any notice is required by these By-Laws to be given, personal notice is not meant unless expressly so stated, and any notice so required shall be deemed to be sufficient if given by depositing the same in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the person entitled thereto at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, and such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the date of such mailing. Stockholders not entitled to vote shall not be entitled to receive notice of any meetings except as otherwise provided by statute.
 
Any notice of a meeting required to be given under the provisions of any law, or under the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or these By-Laws, may be waived in writing, either before or after such meeting, and, to the extent permitted by law, will be waived by a person by his attendance thereat, in person or by proxy. Any person so waiving notice of such meeting shall be bound by the proceedings of any such meeting in all respects as if due notice thereof had been given.
Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders, any notice to stockholders given by the Corporation under any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these By-laws shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the stockholder to whom the notice is given. Any such consent shall be revocable by the stockholder by written notice to the Corporation. Notice given pursuant to this Article VI, Section 10 shall be deemed given: (i) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (ii) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (iii) if by a posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice; and (iv) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the stockholder.
An affidavit of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or of the transfer agent or other agent of the Corporation that the notice has been given in writing or by a form of electronic transmission shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
These By-Laws may be altered or repealed and By-Laws may be adopted at any annual meeting of the stockholders, or at any special meeting thereof if notice of the proposed alteration or repeal or By-Law or By-Laws to be adopted is contained in the notice of such special meeting, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, or by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors, at any regular meeting of the Board of Directors, or at a special meeting of the Board of Directors, if notice of the proposed alteration or repeal, or By-Law or By-Laws to be adopted, is contained in the notice of such special meeting.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Torchmark Corporation's directors are compensated on the following basis:
 
 
 
 
 


