FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20110304155935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Explanatory Note
This Amendment No. 1 is being filed to amend and restate in its entirety, this Form 8-K in order to furnish unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements of Torchmark Corporation specified in Article 11 of Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Regulation S-X, which were omitted in error from the original filing dated January 5, 2011.
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
On December 31, 2010, Liberty National Life Insurance Company ("Liberty National"), a subsidiary of Torchmark Corporation ("Torchmark"), completed and closed the sale of all the issued and outstanding common stock of its subsidiary, United Investors Life Insurance Company ("United Investors"), to Protective Life Insurance Company ("Protective"), a subsidiary of Protective Life Corporation, for approximately $343 million in cash, subject to post-closing adjustments provided for in the Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of September 13, 2010 among the parties, which Stock Purchase Agreement had been previously filed as an exhibit to the Form 8-K dated September 14, 2010. Prior to closing, approximately $305 million of assets, at fair value, were distributed from United Investors to Liberty National. The combined total of the purchase price and the pre-closing distributions to Liberty National was approximately $648 million.
Torchmark classified United Investors as a discontinued operation in the third quarter of 2010. This classification is reflected in Torchmark's Unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009 and Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three month and nine month periods ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, as set forth in Torchmark's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010. Torchmark's unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements and related descriptions of pro-forma adjustments and notes are attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This pro forma information is intended to provide investors with information about how the sale of United Investors might have affected Torchmark's historical financial position and results of operations. However, the unaudited pro forma financial information is not intended to represent and may not be indicative of the consolidated results of operations or financial position that would have occurred had the sale of United Investors been completed as of the dates presented nor the future results of operations or financial position of Torchmark.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
None.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements of Torchmark Corporation specified in Article 11 of SEC Regulation S-X are attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
None.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
On December 31, 2010, Torchmark, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Liberty National, completed the disposition of United Investors, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Liberty National. Consideration for the sale included cash proceeds of $337 million, net of transactions costs, as well as $21 million of post-closing adjustments.
The accompanying unaudited pro forma financial information reflects the impact of the disposition of United Investors on Torchmark's financial position and operating results. The Unaudited Condensed Pro Forma Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2010 is based on the historical Balance Sheet of Torchmark as of September 30, 2010, adjusted to reflect the impact of the disposition of United Investors' operations as if it had occurred on September 30, 2010. The Unaudited Condensed Pro Forma Statements of Operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 are based on the historical Statements of Operations of Torchmark for such periods after giving effect to the United Investors' disposition as if it had occurred on January 1, 2007. The unaudited pro forma financial information should be read in conjunction with Torchmark's consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Torchmark's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2010, and Torchmark's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, filed on November 8, 2010.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by management. They are provided for illustrative purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that might have occurred had the transaction been completed on the respective dates presented, nor are they necessarily indicative of Torchmark's future operating results. However, the pro forma adjustments reflected in the accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements reflect estimates and assumptions that Torchmark's management believes to be reasonable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


