FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20111215104133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 12, 2011, Torchmark Corporation issued a press release announcing the election of Steve DiChiaro as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of its subsidiary, Liberty National Life Insurance Company. Torchmark also announced that Roger Smith, who currently serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of American Income Life Insurance Company, another Torchmark subsidiary, will become President and Chief Executive Officer of Liberty National and continue to serve as Chief Executive Officer of American Income. Scott Smith has been appointed President of American Income. This information is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
MCKINNEY, Texas Dec. 12, 2011Torchmark Corporation (NYSE:TMK) announced today the appointment of Steve DiChiaro as Executive Vice President and Chief Agency Officer of Liberty National Life Insurance Company (Liberty National). Mr. DiChiaro has a strong agency background, having been with American Income Life Insurance Company (American Income) since 2003 as an agent, managing general agent, and most recently as the State General Agent for Colorado. Under his leadership, the Colorado agency has been one of American Income's fastest growing offices in 2011.
Torchmark also announced that Roger Smith has been named President and Chief Executive Officer of Liberty National. Mr. Smith has been President and Chief Executive Officer of American Income since 2003 and will continue to serve as Chief Executive Officer of American Income.
In addition, Scott Smith was promoted to President of American Income. Mr. Smith has been Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of American Income since 2004.
Torchmark Corporation is a holding company specializing in life and supplemental health insurance for "middle income" Americans marketed through multiple distribution channels including direct response, and exclusive and independent agencies. Torchmark has several nationally recognized insurance subsidiaries. Globe Life And Accident is a direct-response provider of life insurance known for its administrative efficiencies. American Income Life provides individual life insurance to labor union members. Liberty National Life is one of the oldest traditional life insurers in the Southeast. United American is a consumer-oriented provider of supplemental life and health insurance.
 


