FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20121106110253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01   Other Events.
On November 1, 2012, Torchmark Corporation (Torchmark) completed and closed its previously-announced purchase of Family Heritage Life Insurance Company of America (Family Heritage), a privately-held supplemental health insurance provider.
The press release announcing the closing of the Family Heritage acquisition issued by Torchmark on November 2, 2012 is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01   Financial Statement and Exhibits.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
MCKINNEY, Texas Nov 2, 2012  Torchmark Corporation (NYSE:TMK ) is pleased to announce that it closed the previously announced purchase of Family Heritage Life Insurance Company of America (Family Heritage), a privately-held supplemental health insurance provider, on November 1, 2012 for approximately $232 million, subject to final post-closing adjustments. This transaction is expected to be immediately accretive to net operating earnings per share with minimal impact, if any, on Torchmark's free cash flow available for stock repurchases or the RBC ratios of the insurance subsidiaries.
"We look forward to working with the Family Heritage team to ensure a seamless transition" said Torchmark co-CEO's Gary Coleman and Larry Hutchison. "We have complete confidence in the Family Heritage management, agents and employees".
Wells Fargo acted as financial advisor to Torchmark, while Locke Lord LLP served as legal advisor.
Torchmark Corporation is a holding company specializing in life and supplemental health insurance for "middle income" Americans marketed through multiple distribution channels including direct response, and exclusive and independent agencies. Torchmark has several nationally recognized insurance subsidiaries. Globe Life And Accident is a direct-response provider of life insurance known for its administrative efficiencies. American Income Life provides individual life insurance to working families. Liberty National Life is one of the oldest traditional life insurers in the Southeast. United American is a consumer-oriented provider of supplemental life and health insurance.
Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These prospective statements reflect management's current expectations, but are not guarantees of future performance. Accordingly, please refer to Torchmark's cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements, and the business environment in which the Company operates, contained in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission and on the Company's website at on the Investor Relations page. Torchmark specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement because of new information, future developments or otherwise.
www.torchmarkcorp.com
 


