FILE:TMK/TMK-8K-20120725161504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 25, 2012, Torchmark Corporation issued a press release announcing its second quarter 2012 financial results. A copy of the press release is incorporated herein by reference and is provided as Exhibit 99.1.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information included or incorporated in this report (including Exhibit 99.1) shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statement and Exhibits.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
(99.1) Torchmark Corporation Press Release dated July 25, 2012.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
McKinney, TX, July 25, 2012Torchmark Corporation (NYSE: TMK) reported today that for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, net income was $1.32 per share, compared with $1.27 per share for the year-ago quarter. Net operating income for the quarter was $1.30 per share, compared with $1.09 per share for the year-ago quarter.
Reconciliations between net income and net operating income, GAAP ROE and management ROE, and GAAP book value and management book value are shown in the Financial Summary below.
HIGHLIGHTS:
 
 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Net operating income, a non-GAAP financial measure, has long been consistently used by Torchmark's management to evaluate the operating performance of the Company, and is a measure commonly used in the life insurance industry. It differs from net income primarily because it excludes certain non-operating items such as realized investment gains and losses and nonrecurring items which are included in net income. Management believes that an analysis of net operating income is important in understanding the profitability and operating trends of the Company's business.
 
 
Note: Tables in this news release may not foot due to rounding
 
 
 
INSURANCE OPERATIONS  comparing the second quarter 2012 with second quarter 2011:
Life insurance accounted for 72% of the Company's insurance underwriting margin for the quarter and 64% of total premium revenue.
Health insurance, excluding Medicare Part D, accounted for 23% of Torchmark's insurance underwriting margin for the quarter and 25% of total premium revenue. Medicare Part D accounted for 5% of insurance underwriting margin and 11% of total premium revenue.
Net sales of life insurance increased 4%, while health sales, excluding Medicare Part D, were flat.
Insurance Premium Revenue
 
Insurance Underwriting Income
Insurance underwriting margin is management's measure of profitability of its life, health and annuity segments' underwriting performance, and consists of premiums less policy obligations, commissions and other acquisition expenses.
Insurance underwriting income is the sum of the insurance underwriting margins of the life, health and annuity segments, plus other income, less insurance administrative expenses. It excludes the investment segment, parent company expense and income taxes.
 
 
Insurance Results by Distribution Channels
Total premium, underwriting margins, first-year collected premium and net sales by all distribution channels are shown at on the Investor Relations page at Financial Reports.
www.torchmarkcorp.com
was Torchmark's leading contributor to total underwriting margin ($63 million), on premium revenue of $184 million. Life premiums of $164 million were up 9% and life insurance underwriting margin of $54 million was up 12%. As a percentage of life premium, life underwriting margin was 33%, up from 32% and the highest of the major life distribution channels at Torchmark. Producing agents grew to 5,318, up 23% from a year ago, and up 4% during the quarter. Net life sales were $40 million, up 10%.
American Income Agency
was Torchmark's second leading contributor to total underwriting margin ($38 million), on premium revenue of $172 million. Life premiums of $158 million were up 5% and the life underwriting margin was $35 million, down 1%. As a percentage of life premium, life underwriting margin was 22%, down from 24%. Net life sales were $38 million, up 4%.
Direct Response
was Torchmark's third leading contributor to total underwriting margin ($32 million), on premium revenue of $138 million. Life premiums of $71 million were down 2% and life underwriting margin of $18 million was up 21%. As a percentage of life premium, life underwriting margin was 25%, up from 20%. Net life sales for the LNL Agency were $8 million, down 18% from a year ago.
LNL Agency
LNL Agency was Torchmark's second leading contributor to health underwriting margin ($14 million), on health premium of $67 million. Health underwriting margin as a percentage of health premium was 21%, same as a year ago. Net health sales were $4 million, down 12%.
LNL Agency producing agent count was 1,355, down 24% from a year ago, but up 6% during the quarter.
was Torchmark's leading contributor to health underwriting margin ($15 million), on health premium of $76 million. Health underwriting margin as a percentage of premium was 20%, up from 19%. Net health sales were $6 million, up 19%.
UA Independent Agency
is distributed by Direct Response and the UA agencies. Second quarter premium revenue was $78 million, up 60%. Underwriting margin for second quarter 2012 was $8 million, up 47%. Torchmark developed a new lower cost Part D plan for 2012 which has resulted in significant additions of low-income auto-enrollees. The new plan was priced with the same targeted profit margin as our other Part D plan.
Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan
For GAAP reporting, Medicare Part D premiums are recognized evenly throughout the year when they become due, and benefit costs are recognized when the costs are incurred. Due to the design of the product, premiums are evenly distributed throughout the year, but benefit costs are higher earlier in the year. As a result, under GAAP, benefit costs can exceed premiums in the first part of the year but be less than premiums during the remainder of the year. For net operating income purposes, Torchmark defers excess benefits incurred in earlier interim periods to later periods in order to more closely match the benefit cost with the associated revenue. For the full year, the total premiums and benefits are the same under this alternative method as they are under GAAP. The Company reports this difference between GAAP and management's non-GAAP disclosures, net of tax, as a reconciling item for the interim periods in the Financial Summary shown on page 1 of this release. A chart reconciling the Company's non-GAAP financial presentation to a GAAP presentation may be viewed on the Company's website at www.torchmarkcorp.com on the Investor Relations page at Financial Reports.
 
were $40 million, down 1% from the year-ago quarter.
Administrative Expenses
INVESTMENTS
Excess Investment Income  comparing the second quarter 2012 with the second quarter 2011:
Management uses excess investment income as the measure to evaluate the performance of the investment segment. It is net investment income reduced by required interest. Required interest includes interest credited to net policy liabilities and interest on debt.
 
Net investment income was up 2%, less than the 3% increase in average invested assets due to lower new money yields. Required interest on net policy liabilities increased 7%, while the average liabilities increased 5% due to changes in the mix of inforce business. The weighted average discount rate for the entire inforce block increased to 5.65% from 5.55% a year ago.
Investment Portfolio
The composition of the investment portfolio at June 30, 2012 is as follows:
 
 
Fixed maturities at amortized cost by asset class are as follows:
 
The market value of Torchmark's fixed maturity portfolio was $12.3 billion; $1.2 billion higher than amortized cost of $11.1 billion. The $1.2 billion of net unrealized gains compares to $873 million at March 31, 2012. Net unrealized gains were comprised of gross unrealized gains of $1.4 billion and gross unrealized losses of $158 million.
The investment portfolio contains no securities backed by sub-prime mortgages. Torchmark has no counterparty risk as it is not a party to any credit default swaps or other derivatives contracts and does not participate in securities lending.
At amortized cost, 93% of fixed maturities (95% at market value) were rated "investment grade."
The fixed maturity portfolio earned an annual effective yield of 6.43% during the second quarter of 2012, compared to 6.56% in the year-ago quarter.
Acquisitions of fixed maturity investments during the quarter totaled $197 million at cost. Comparable information for acquisitions of fixed maturity investments is as follows:
 
 
Realized Capital Gains on Investments  during the quarter ended June 30, 2012:
Torchmark had a net realized capital gain of $4.7 million ($3.0 million after tax) resulting primarily from dispositions of fixed maturities. Year-to-date, the Company has had net capital gains of $9.7 million ($6.3 million after tax).
SHARE REPURCHASE  during the quarter ended June 30, 2012:
During the quarter, the Company repurchased 3.9 million shares of Torchmark Corporation common stock at a total cost of $184.0 million at an average price per share of $47.42.
LIQUIDITY/CAPITAL:
Torchmark's operations consist primarily of writing basic protection life and supplemental health insurance policies which generate strong and stable cash flows.
Capital at the insurance companies is sufficient to support current operations. In addition, the parent company had $58 million of liquid assets at June 30, 2012.
EARNINGS GUIDANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2012:
Torchmark projects that for the year ending December 31, 2012, net operating income per share will be in a range of $5.08 to $5.26. Net investment income for the year will be lower than previously projected due to earlier than anticipated calls in July of certain of our hybrid fixed maturity investments and new money yields expected to be lower in the last half of the year than previously projected.
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
More detailed financial information including various GAAP and Non-GAAP ratios and financial measurements are located at on the Investor Relations page under "Financial Reports and Other Financial Information."
www.torchmarkcorp.com
CAUTION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These prospective statements reflect management's current expectations, but are not guarantees of future performance. Accordingly, please refer to Torchmark's cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements, and the business environment in which the Company operates, contained in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and any subsequent Forms 10-Q on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission and on the Company's website at on the Investor Relations page. Torchmark specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement because of new information, future developments or otherwise.
www.torchmarkcorp.com
EARNINGS RELEASE CONFERENCE CALL WEBCAST:
Torchmark will provide a live audio webcast of its second quarter 2012 earnings release conference call with financial analysts at 11:00 a.m. (Eastern) tomorrow, July 26, 2012. Access to the live webcast and replay will be available at on the Investor Relations page, at the Conference Calls on the Web icon. Immediately following this press release, supplemental financial reports will be available before the conference call on the Investor Relations page menu of the Torchmark website at "Financial Reports and Other Financial Information."
www.torchmarkcorp.com
 
 


