FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20041213170037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
               On December 7, 2004, Joseph J. Lhota, Executive Vice President, Corporate Administration, of Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision"), entered into a letter agreement with Rainbow Media Enterprises, Inc. ("RME"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision, pursuant to which he will transfer his employment to RME and become its Executive Vice President, Co-Chief Financial Officer.
               The letter agreement between RME and Mr. Lhota provides for employment at will. Under the agreement, Mr. Lhota is to receive an annual salary of not less than $725,000. Mr. Lhota is also entitled to an annual bonus, starting in 2005, established in the discretion of the compensation committee of the board of directors of RME with a target of 70% of his annual base salary and a possible range of 0% to 140% of that salary. The agreement provides severance benefits if Mr. Lhota's employment is terminated by the Company (other than for cause) prior to December 2, 2007. These severance benefits include payment of an amount to Mr. Lhota equal to two times the sum of his annual base salary plus his target bonus, payable over the two year period following termination of employment.
               Mr. Lhota will also be eligible, subject to his continued employment by RME, to participate in all long-term incentive and equity incentive plans of RME at the level available to similarly situated executives. In particular, subject and subsequent to RME becoming a stand-alone publicly traded company on the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. Lhota will be eligible to receive (i) a grant of restricted shares of common stock of RME having a face value on the date of grant of not less than $500,000 and subject to four year cliff vesting and (ii) either an award of options to purchase common shares of RME vesting over a three year period with a Black-Sholes valuation on the date of grant of not less than $500,000, or (B) a contingent performance award of $500,000 to be earned over a three year period based upon performance criteria to be established by management and subject to the approval of the compensation committee of the board of directors of RME.
               Mr. Lhota will be entitled to participate in RME's health, welfare and retirement benefit programs, subject to the eligibility and other terms of those plans.
               The letter agreement terminates on December 2, 2007.
               On December 7, 2004, Mr. Lhota resigned his position as Executive Vice President, Corporate Administration of Cablevision.
 
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 13, 2004
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 13, 2004
 
 
 


