FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20041123204333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
                On November 22, 2004, the Rainbow DBS subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrants") entered into a satellite procurement contract with Lockheed Martin Corporation, pursuant to which Lockheed Martin will construct five Ka-band satellites and provide related tracking, telemetry and control equipment, satellite simulators and other equipment, software and training. The satellites are intended to use FCC frequency licenses held by Rainbow DBS at 62W, 71W, 77W, 119W and 129W. Under the satellite procurement contract, the satellites are to be delivered over the period from 38 months to 50 months following the execution of the contract and the aggregate cost to Rainbow DBS for the five satellites is expected to be approximately $740 million, subject to certain adjustments. This amount does not include launch costs. Rainbow DBS has the right to terminate the agreement at any time for convenience either in its entirety or with respect to individual satellites, subject to making a required termination payment. While existing cash on hand will be sufficient to make all required payments under the contract through the first year, which are expected to aggregate $48 million, Rainbow DBS has not identified the funding sources it will use for the payments due thereafter. Neither of the Registrants has guaranteed any of Rainbow DBS' obligations under the satellite procurement contract.
 
 
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 23, 2004
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 23, 2004
 
 
 


