FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20050603215605.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
   
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On November 21, 2004, the Company's Rainbow DBS subsidiary entered into a contract (the "Contract") with Lockheed Martin Commercial Space Systems for the construction of up to five satellites designed to use Ka-band licenses obtained by Rainbow DBS in connection with its VOOM satellite television business.  The Company has previously announced its decision to shut down the satellite television distribution business of Rainbow DBS.  On June 1, 2005, the Company entered into an amendment to the Contract pursuant to which all activities under the Contract are suspended, other than certain minimal non-recurring work which may be mutually agreed by the parties and which will not result in any additional payment obligations by Rainbow DBS.  Rainbow DBS will have the right, in its sole discretion, to terminate or restart activity under the Contract.  Its decision must be made on or before November 21, 2005.  Unless Rainbow DBS decides to restart activity under the Contract (either in its current form or in a modified form) Rainbow DBS will not be required to make any further on-going payments to Lockheed Martin (other than in respect of currently outstanding payables) or incur any increase in its termination liability.
 
Item 2.05.  Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
In connection with the shutdown of the Company's Rainbow DBS distribution business, the Company anticipates incurring significant costs relating to early termination of various contracts, other contractual obligations, employee termination benefits and other costs.  These costs are currently estimated to range from $100 million to $130 million.  The current estimated range of costs associated with our shutdown and exit from the Rainbow DBS distribution business is based on facts and assumptions currently known to us, but actual future shutdown and exit related costs may deviate from the current range of estimate and such deviations could be significant.  The estimated shutdown costs do not include the settlement of liabilities of the Rainbow DBS distribution business recorded on our balance sheet at March 31, 2005 of $45.8 million.  The Company does not expect the shutdown costs to have a material impact on its liquidity position as it is expected that these costs will be funded by the proceeds from the sale of the Rainbow 1 direct broadcast satellite to Echostar for $200 million.
Item 8.01.  Other Events
 
This Form 8-K hereby amends the combined Annual Report on Form 10-K as separately filed by Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, Inc. (collectively with Cablevision, the "Company"), as originally filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on March 16, 2005 (the "Original Filing") to reclassify the transactions discussed in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as assets and liabilities held for sale on the consolidated balance sheets and as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented and to reflect changes to our reportable segments in Note 20.
 
This Form 8-K only amends and reclassifies Items 6, certain sections of Item 7 and Item 8 of the Original Filing, in each case, solely as a result of, and to reflect the reclassifications discussed above, and no other Items in the Original Filing are amended hereby. In addition, pursuant to rules of the SEC, Item 15 of Part IV of the Original Filing has been amended to contain the consents of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm.  The consents of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.4 and Exhibit 99.5.
 
On May 9, 2005, Madison Square Garden and Time Warner reached a multiyear agreement on key rate and positioning terms for carriage of MSG Network and FSN New York.  Time Warner is now carrying MSG Network and FSN New York, and the parties are working on the definitive documentation reflecting the May 9, 2005 agreement.  There can be no assurance that the parties will be able to conclude a definitive written document.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Exhibits.
(c)
          
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.56
 
 
Contract No. 11182004
 
 
This contract and the information contained herein is proprietary and confidential to Rainbow DBS Company LLC and LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION ACTING THROUGH LOCKHEED MARTIN COMMERCIAL SPACE SYSTEMS and shall not be published, reproduced, copied, disclosed, or used for other than its intended purpose without the express written consent of a duly authorized representative of Rainbow DBS Company LLC and LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION ACTING THROUGH LOCKHEED MARTIN COMMERCIAL SPACE SYSTEMS.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
 
ATTACHMENTS
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
THIS CONTRACT (the "Contract") is entered into this 21 day of November, 2004, (the "Effective Date of Contract" or "EDC"), by and between Lockheed Martin Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of Maryland, acting through Lockheed Martin Commercial Space Systems, with its principal place of business located at 100 Campus Drive, Newtown, Pennsylvania ("Contractor"), and RAINBOW DBS COMPANY LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, with its principal place of business located at 200 Jericho Quadrangle, Jericho, New York 11753, U.S.A. ("Customer").
st
 
WHEREAS Customer desires to procure five (5) Ka-band satellites, associated launch services and ground equipment subject to the terms and conditions hereof; and
 
WHEREAS Contractor desires to supply such satellites, associated launch services and ground equipment in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof;
 
NOW THEREFORE THIS CONTRACT WITNESSETH THAT, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the Parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.
DEFINITIONS
            
 
As used in this Contract:
 
"" with respect to any Deliverable Item other than a Spacecraft shall be as defined in Paragraph 7.5. "" with respect to a Spacecraft shall be as defined in Paragraph 7.4.
Acceptance
Acceptance
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Article 29.
Authorized Representative
 
"" means a bill of sale in the form of Attachment 11 attached hereto.
Bill of Sale
 
"" means a Day on which Customer and Contractor are open for business, excluding Saturday, Sunday and a Day on which banking institutions in New York City are required or authorized to be closed.
Business Day
 
"" means a certification to be provided to Customer by Contractor upon Delivery of each Spacecraft and other Deliverable Item in the form of Attachment 10 attached hereto.
Certification
 
"CFE" means Customer furnished equipment.
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 27.3.
Company Restricted Information
 
"" means (i) that a Spacecraft does not meet the criteria for Unconditional Acceptance, but such Spacecraft is not a Total Loss or a Constructive Total Loss, and (ii) that Customer has accepted the Spacecraft in accordance with Paragraph 7.4.3(b).
Conditional Acceptance
 
"" means that at the time of Acceptance: (i) less than*** of the Frequencies on a Spacecraft are Successfully Operating Communications Channels, (ii) the Orbital Maneuver Life of a Spacecraft is less than*** Days, (iii) it is predictable that there will be continuously available during the Service Life less than*** of the power allocated for communications payload operations (including during eclipse periods) with simultaneous operations of all Spacecraft functions in a mode reasonably required to maintain the health and other performance parameters of the Spacecraft or, (iv) any combination of the foregoing rendering the Spacecraft unable to operate at least*** of its contemplated capacity for its Service Life.
Constructive Total Loss
 
"" means this document, including any amendments made pursuant to Paragraph 33.9, herein embodying the agreement between Contractor and Customer and including the Attachments which are annexed hereto and made a part of this Contract.
Contract
 
"" means all Information other than Contract Foreground Data, including Information which is generated by the Contractor primarily at its own expense in connection with the design, or research and development of its standard baseline products or "off-the-shelf" items for other programs, or for other non-Customer projects to the extent such Information is incorporated in, utilized in, or useful to the performance of Work and/or relating to any Deliverable Items and/or used in connection with or useful to the Contract Foreground Data.
Contract Background Data
 
"" means a notice proposing a change in any requirement of this Contract as described in the Statement of Work and in accordance with Article 12.
Contract Change Notice
 
"" means all Information, including Deliverable Data, directly generated or developed in the performance of Work and/or relating to any Deliverable Items or which is generated as a result of (i) significant design, research or development efforts under this Contract or (ii) routine engineering of
Contract Foreground Data
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
Contractor's standard baseline products or other items incorporated into the Work.
 
"" means all Patents, patent applications and patent disclosures; all patentable or unpatentable inventions, discoveries, improvements, and innovations; all trademarks, trademark applications, and all registrations and recordings thereof; all U.S. and foreign service marks, service mark applications, and all registrations and recordings thereof; trade names; all copyrights, copyright registrations, and applications to register copyrights; confidential or proprietary technical information and trade secrets; know-how; show-how; licenses (including in the form of an immunity from suit) to use the intellectual property of third parties (to the extent that the licensee can sublicense); software; technical manuals and documentation used in connection with the foregoing; and other intellectual property and proprietary information generated, developed and/or utilized in the performance of the Work hereunder.
Contract Intellectual Property
 
"" means any and all Contract Foreground Data and Contract Background Data and such Contract Intellectual Property that is incorporated in, utilized in, or useful to the performance of Work and/or relating to any Deliverable Items and/or used in connection with or useful to the Contract Foreground Data.
Contract Technology
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Contractor
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Customer
 
"" in the context of Performance Incentives, means a continuous twenty-four (24) hour period commencing at 0001 Greenwich Mean Time. For all other purposes it means a twenty four (24) hour period commencing at the occurrence of an event.
Day
 
"" means, with respect to any Deliverable Item and any and all components thereof, any deficiency or nonconformance in design, material or workmanship, or failure to perform in accordance with the specifications and requirements set out or referred to in this Contract.
Defect
 
"" means all data and documentation required to be delivered to Customer under this Contract, as set forth in the Statement of Work, Attachment 3 and Attachment 5.
Deliverable Data
 
"" means all property other than Deliverable Data required to be delivered to Customer under this Contract, including, without limitation, Spacecraft and the tangible media on which Deliverable Data is delivered.
Deliverable Hardware
 
"" means any and all Deliverable Hardware and Deliverable Data.
Deliverable Items
"" for Deliverable Items other than a Spacecraft shall occur upon Acceptance as described in Paragraph 6.2. "" for a Spacecraft shall be as described in Paragraph 6.1.
Delivery
Delivery
 
"" means the Launch Vehicle providers selected in accordance with Article 8 hereof to Launch the Spacecraft into geostationary transfer orbit and provide the Launch Vehicles, the Designated Launch Sites and related facilities and equipment necessary to accomplish such Launches.
Designated Launch Agencies
 
"" means the Launch facilities provided by the Designated Launch Agencies including any off-site processing facilities.
Designated Launch Sites
 
"" means the 62, 71, 77, 119 and 129 west longitude positions in geostationary earth orbit at which Customer intends to locate and operate the Spacecraft, or any alternative orbital positions obtained by Customer in lieu of the foregoing.
Designated Orbital Positions
o
o
o
o
o
 
"" or "" means a dollar of United States currency.
Dollar
$
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 3.3.
Export Laws
 
"" means the program described in Attachment 9 that Contractor has implemented to obtain or amend, as applicable, all United States or other Governmental Approvals necessary to provide Customer, its employees, representatives and consultants, and the Designated Launch Agencies, insurance brokers and underwriters, with access to the Spacecraft, facilities and information as described herein and as necessary to enter into and perform their obligations under the Launch Agreements and the Insurance Agreements.
Export Laws Compliance Program
 
"' or "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Effective Date of Contract
EDC
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 13.3.4.
Escrow Agreement
 
"" means the U.S. Federal Communications Commission and any successor agency.
FCC
 
is a unit of 38 MHz of usable bandwidth on a Spacecraft.
""
Frequency
 
"" means any permit, license or approval of any government, governmental department or agency or relevant regulatory authority required for the performance of this Contract.
Governmental Approvals
 
"" means the date of Acceptance of a Spacecraft.
In Service Date
 
"" means all data and information, including, without limitation, data and information of a technical, business or financial nature which has been documented on any tangible media, including, without limitation, writings,
Information
drawings, sound recordings, software, pictorial representations and graphs. Except as otherwise provided in the Contract, Information shall not include the Contractor's financial reports, cost analyses and other data and internal information incidental to contract administration.
 
" means a Frequency that does not meet the standards of a Successfully Operating Communications Channel (i) for***, (ii) for a cumulative total of***, or (iii) during any eclipse period.
"
Inoperative Frequency
 
"" mean the agreements providing for insurance of the Spacecraft between Customer and insurance underwriters as described in Article 9.
Insurance Agreements
 
"" means the intentional ignition by a Designated Launch Agency of the main or first stage engines of a Launch Vehicle or such other definition as is contained in the relevant Launch Agreement.
Intentional Ignition
 
"" means in orbit tests as specified in the Statement of Work and Attachment 3.
IOT
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 10.2.
Key Subcontract
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 10.2.
Key Subcontractor
 
"" means the launch of a Spacecraft as defined in the relevant Launch Agreement.
Launch
 
"" means the agreement(s) providing for the Launch of the Spacecraft between Customer and the Designated Launch Agencies as described in Article 8.
Launch Agreement(s)
 
"" means Contractor's activities at the Designated Launch Sites in support of the Launches, as specified in the Statement of Work.
Launch Support
 
"" mean the launch vehicles selected for the Launch of the Spacecraft, in accordance with Article 8.
Launch Vehicles
 
"" means the letter of credit that may be established by Customer in favor of Contractor in accordance with Paragraphs 5.1.2 (b) through (d), inclusive and Attachment 15.
Letter of Credit
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
"" means a right to use, lease, offer for sale, market, advertise, promote, sell, dispose of and otherwise practice, subject to the terms and conditions contained herein.
License to Practice
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 7.3.
Major Subcontractor
 
"" means the milestone payment plan for each Spacecraft and the TT&C and Pilot Uplink Station Equipment attached hereto as Attachment 7.
Milestone Payment Plan
 
"" means Deliverable Items that are not separately priced hereunder.
NSP
 
"" means any of the options described in Attachment 12.
Option
 
"" means the period of time following the In Service Date of a Spacecraft for which such Spacecraft has sufficient fuel to be operated at its Designated Orbital Position, in accordance with the requirements and standards set forth in the Spacecraft Performance Requirements and allowing sufficient fuel to de-orbit such Spacecraft at the end of its life in accordance with applicable governmental requirements.
Orbital Maneuver Life
 
"" means a patent for an invention or a similar form of statutory protection such as a utility model or registered design.
Patent
 
"" or "" means Customer and/or Contractor, who are the principals to this Contract.
Party
Parties
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 5.1.1.
Payment Due Date
 
"" means the monies that may be earned by Contractor, as specified in item 6 of Tables 4.1.1 - 4.1.5, based on the performance of the Spacecraft, which monies shall be payable to Contractor under the conditions set forth in Paragraph 5.2.
Performance Incentives
 
"" mean the dates promised for Delivery of the Spacecraft or for Delivery of other Deliverable Items (as applicable) pursuant to Article 3.
Promised Delivery Dates
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 27.1.
Proprietary Information
 
" means a Frequency that has become an Inoperative Frequency and has subsequently been restored to operate in full compliance with the standards of a Successfully Operating Communications Channel for a period of***.
"
Restored Communications Channel
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
"" means a right to copy, duplicate, reproduce, modify and otherwise use, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein.
Right to Use
 
"" means the dynamic satellite simulators to be delivered by Contractor to Customer as defined in the Statement of Work.
Satellite Simulators
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 5.1.2(e).
Security Agreement
 
"" for a Spacecraft means the five thousand four hundred seventy-nine (5,479) Day period following final Acceptance of the Spacecraft.
Service Life
 
"" means one (1) or more of the satellites to be constructed and launched as provided hereunder and delivered in-orbit to Customer by Contractor.
Spacecraft
 
"" means the spacecraft performance specifications for each Spacecraft attached hereto as Attachment 2.
Spacecraft Performance Requirements
 
"" or "" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 7.4.1.
Spacecraft Pre-Shipment Review
SPSR
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 4.1.
Spacecraft System Price
 
"" means the spacecraft product assurance plan attached hereto as Attachment 4.
Spacecraft Product Assurance Requirements
 
"" means the statement of work attached hereto as Attachment 1.
Statement of Work
 
"" means a subcontract, including purchase orders, memoranda of understanding and all similar forms of agreement between Contractor and any Subcontractor at any tier, to provide a portion of the Work under this Contract.
Subcontract
 
"" means a person, firm, corporation or business entity which has been awarded a Subcontract by Contractor to provide a portion of the Work covered by this Contract.
Subcontractor
 
"" means that at the time of separation of a Spacecraft from the Launch Vehicle,***. Damage to the Spacecraft following separation from the Launch Vehicle but caused by the Launch Vehicle shall be deemed to have occurred prior to separation from the Launch Vehicle.
Successful Injection
 
" means ***.
"
Successfully Operating Communications Channel
 
" means ***:
"
Successfully Operating Spacecraft
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
"" means the ground equipment as defined in the Statement of Work hereinafter referred to as "TT&C Station Equipment".
TT&C and Pilot Uplink Station Equipment
 
"" of a Spacecraft means (i) the complete loss, destruction or failure of such Spacecraft or (ii)***.
Total Loss
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 17.2.
Total Verified Termination Expense
 
"" means that the Spacecraft meets the criteria for unconditional acceptance specified in Paragraph 7.4.3(a), and that Customer has accepted the Spacecraft in accordance with Paragraph 7.4.3(a).
Unconditional Acceptance
 
"" means all acts, including tests to be performed, and materials, articles, data, documentation, and developments, equipment, matters and things to be furnished and rights to be transferred by Contractor or Subcontractor(s) under this Contract, or any contract or subcontract entered into by Contractor or Subcontractor(s).
Work
 
2.
SCOPE OF WORK
            
 
2.1
 
Elements of Work
 
2.1.1  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Contract (including any Options as specified in Attachment 12), Contractor shall sell and Customer shall purchase five (5) Spacecraft, to be designated Rainbow Ka 1, Rainbow Ka 2, Rainbow Ka 3, Rainbow Ka 4, and Rainbow Ka 5, and Contractor shall furnish and perform all the elements of the Work for the purpose of such sale. Contractor shall furnish the Work in accordance with the provisions of this Contract, including all Attachments listed in Paragraph 2.2. The major elements of the Work include the following:
  General Scope.
 
.  Design, manufacture, in-plant test, prepare each Spacecraft for Launch, integrate each Spacecraft with the applicable Launch Vehicle, and following Successful Injection, in-orbit test and place each Spacecraft into its Designated Orbital Position and present each Spacecraft to Customer for Acceptance;
(a)
Spacecraft
          
 
  Deliver, install and test the TT&C Station Equipment, for each Spacecraft, including all necessary equipment to monitor and control the five (5) Spacecraft simultaneously and independently in accordance with Attachments 5 and 6;
(b)
TT&C Station Equipment.
          
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
  Deliver two (2) Satellite Simulators per Spacecraft, as specified in the Statement of Work, meeting the performance requirements specified in Section 5 of Attachment 5, Satellite Control And Operations Requirements;
(c)
Simulators.
          
 
  Provide satellite databases as specified in Section 3 of Attachment 5, Satellite Control and Operations Requirements;
(d)
Satellite Database.
          
 
  Manage the program and conduct program reviews;
(e)
Management.
          
 
  Prepare and provide to Customer data and documentation in accordance with the Statement of Work, Attachment 3 and Attachment 5;
(f)
Data and Documentation.
           
 
  Provide (as necessary) the temporary use of containers for shipping and storage of the Spacecraft;
(g)
Containers.
          
 
  Provide reasonable, full-time office accommodations for up to*** Customer resident technical representatives at Contractor's facilities and reasonable accommodations for up to*** Customer representatives visiting Contractor's facilities for periodic meetings;
(h)
Offices.
          
 
  Assist Customer in entering into the Insurance Agreements, and in making any claims under any of the foregoing Insurance Agreements;
(i)
Insurance Support.
           
 
Provide initial satellite control operations of each Spacecraft using the Contractor's own facilities and the Customer's TT&C Station Equipment, starting from Delivery of such Spacecraft, and continuing for a period of***, as outlined in Section 11 of Attachment 5;
(j)
Initial Operations. 
           
 
Provide Spacecraft Operator Training for each Spacecraft as outlined in Attachment 1; and
(k)
Training. 
          
 
  Obtain all Governmental Approvals necessary to fulfill its obligations hereunder.
(l)
Governmental Approvals.
           
 
2.1.2  If any items, materials, or services not specifically described in this Contract are an inherent, necessary or customary part of the Work and/or Deliverable Items or are reasonably required for proper performance or provision of the Work and/or Deliverable Items in accordance
  Inherent, Necessary, Customary Work.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
with this Contract, they shall be deemed to be included within the scope of the Work and /or Deliverable Items to be delivered as provided herein, as if such items, materials, or services were specifically described in this Contract; provided however that the foregoing shall not expand the scope of Contractor's obligations under the Statement of Work.
 
2.2
 
Attachments
 
The Work to be performed by Contractor under this Contract shall include, and be governed by, the Attachments listed below which are attached hereto and made a part hereof. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency among the provisions of the various parts of this Contract, including the Attachments attached to and incorporated into this Contract, such conflict or inconsistency shall be resolved by giving precedence to the terms and conditions of this Contract without the Attachments and then to the Attachments in the order listed below:
 
 
 
2.3
Options
 
Customer shall have the options to procure additional items specified in Attachment 12 which may be acquired from time to time under the terms and conditions set forth therein.
 
3.
DELIVERABLE ITEMS AND DELIVERY SCHEDULE
            
 
 
3.1
Deliverable Items/Promised Delivery Dates
 
All Deliverable Items to be delivered and the corresponding Promised Delivery Dates and points of Delivery are set forth below:
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
 
 
3.2
Time of the Essence
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Contract, Contractor understands and agrees that the times for the Promised Delivery Dates of the Spacecraft (Items 1 (a) through (e) set forth above are of the essence to this Contract. Contractor shall perform its obligations under this Contract in a timely manner. Contractor will support Customer requests in making necessary filings with and explanations to the FCC regarding the status of Spacecraft construction and Launch as it applies to required milestones.
 
3.3
 
Contractor Responsibility
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Contract, including payments of the amounts due by Customer hereunder, delivery of all Deliverable Items under this Contract shall be at Contractor's expense. Contractor shall be responsible for securing
any necessary Governmental Approvals, including any relating to import of items to be delivered to the Contractor by the Subcontractors and export of the Deliverable Items, in a timely manner, as necessary to perform its obligations under this Contract. All Governmental Approvals of any country required for compliance with Contractor's obligations under this Contract shall be referred to as "Export Laws". Customer agrees to cooperate with Contractor in executing such documents as shall be necessary for compliance with Governmental Approvals under the Export Laws.
 
3.4
 
Customer Responsibility
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Contract, including payments of the amounts due to Contractor hereunder, Customer shall be responsible for securing all FCC and ITU approvals (on ground and in-orbit), including frequency coordination for IOT and on-station operations. In addition to the above, Customer is responsible for providing TT&C facilities as specified in the TT&C facilities ICD referenced in the Statement of Work, Attachment 1.
 
4.
PRICES
            
 
4.1
  ***
 
4.2
 
Taxes
 
Each Spacecraft System Price and the prices for all other deliverables (including Options deliverables) under this Contract include all taxes, duties, transportation, insurance and all other costs and charges associated with the performance of all Work. Contractor shall be responsible for payment of all taxes and duties which may be required under any laws which become due by reason of performance of the Work, and Contractor shall comply with all requirements of said laws, including payment of any interest or penalties related to or arising from such taxes and duties.
 
4.3
 
***
 
4.3.4    Nothing contained in this Paragraph 4.3 shall affect any right or remedy available to Customer, under this Contract, for delay exceeding the number of Days stated in Paragraph 4.3.1.
Other Remedies.
 
4.3.5    Contractor shall immediately notify Customer of any circumstance that will cause or threaten to cause a delay in Delivery. Contractor shall provide Customer no less frequently than monthly with Contractor's best estimate of when Delivery will occur (liquidated damages shall only be assessed for actual delays, not anticipated delays).***
Contractor Notice.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
4.3.7    Contractor acknowledges and agrees that its failure to keep Customer informed of reasonably predictable delays in Delivery may cause damages to Customer related to the failure to give notice. In such a case, Customer may seek recovery for the damages caused by Contractor's failure to give notice of such delay within a reasonable period after Contractor knows that such a delay will occur. Contractor's damages under this provision shall be limited to the actual damages incurred by Customer proximately caused by the lack of notice, and such damages shall be capped at ***.
Failure to Notify.
 
5.
METHOD OF PAYMENT
            
 
 
5.1
Spacecraft
 
  Payment by Customer to Contractor of the amount due for each Spacecraft (less Performance Incentives) and other Deliverable Items as specified in items 1 through 5, 8 and 9 in Tables 4.1.1 - 4.1.5 of this Contract (as may be adjusted pursuant to Paragraph 4.3.1) shall be made in accordance with the Milestone Payment Plan for such Spacecraft and the conditions specified therein. The amounts specified in the Milestone Payment Plan for each Spacecraft and its related Deliverable Items shall in each case be paid by Customer to Contractor within thirty (30) Days after receipt by Customer of an invoice from Contractor (the "Payment Due Date"), accompanied by a certification from Contractor's Authorized Representatives, that the particular milestone events for which payment is being claimed in each case have been completed and enclosing any other documentation necessary to demonstrate the completion of such milestones. Contractor shall submit no more than one (1) invoice per calendar month per Spacecraft, which shall list all completed milestones with respect to such Spacecraft for that month. Contractor shall not submit invoices for a Spacecraft, the amounts of which, when paid, will cause the total amount paid under the Contract with respect to such Spacecraft to exceed the aggregate sum scheduled to be paid with respect to such Spacecraft to that point in time as provided in the Milestone Payment Plan. In accordance with Article 12, if a change is accepted and implemented, the Milestone Payment Plan will be modified to reflect the change in Spacecraft Price within thirty (30) Days following initial implementation of said change.
5.1.1
 
Milestones.
 
5.1.2  .***
Further Assurances
 
  In lieu of committing to a cash payment, Letter of Credit or Security Agreement under Paragraphs 5.1.2(a), (b), (c), (d), or (e), Customer may provide financial information, which, in the sole discretion of Contractor, is satisfactory for Contractor to allow Customer to make payments under the Milestone Payment Plan set forth in Attachment 7. Should such financial information not be available or satisfactory, Customer
(f)
Financial Information.
           
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
shall provide further assurances under either Paragraphs 5.1.2(a), (b), (c), (d), or (e). If, after doing so, Customer financial information becomes available, which, in the sole discretion of Contractor, provides Contractor satisfactory payment assurance, then Contractor may at that time elect to waive any other further assurance requirements hereunder.
 
 
5.2
Performance Incentives
 
***
 
 
5.3
Invoices
 
All Contractor invoices shall be submitted in three (3) copies to:
 
RAINBOW DBS COMPANY LLC
200 Jericho Quadrangle
Jericho, New York 11753 U.S.A.
 
ATTN: Tom Greco
 
5.4
 
Disputed Payments
 
If Customer concludes that an item for which an invoice has been submitted is not payable in accordance with the terms of this Contract, or that any milestone or condition established by this Contract as a prerequisite to payment has not been fulfilled, Customer shall so notify Contractor within twenty (20) Days of receipt of the applicable invoice. Such notification shall state the areas, which are considered not to be in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Contract and state what is required to be submitted or performed to satisfy the discrepancy. Upon correction of the noted discrepancy(ies), the invoice shall be resubmitted for payment within ten (10) Days. Customer shall pay any undisputed amount of invoices within the payment terms in this Contract. If the Parties cannot agree that a discrepancy(ies) has been resolved, Contractor and Customer will utilize the dispute provision in accordance with Article 21.
 
5.5
 
Currency/Place of Payment
 
  All payments and/or refunds due from either Party to the other shall be made in Dollars. Payments and/or refunds to a Party shall be made by wire transfer of funds, with reference to the invoice number being paid in the detail section of the payment, to such place for payments and/or refunds as the receiving Party's Authorized Representative may designate from time to time in writing. All payments and/or refunds due from either Party to the other shall be
5.5.1 
Currency/Method and Receipt of Payment.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
deemed to have been made when the bank account of the receiving Party, as specified in Paragraph 5.5.2 or 5.5.3, has been credited with such payment, in the currency specified herein for such payment.
 
5.5.2    Unless Contractor otherwise notifies Customer, all payments of Contractor's invoices shall be made by Customer to:
Payments to Contractor.>
 
 
5.5.3    Unless Customer otherwise notifies Contractor, all refunds, credits or other amounts due Customer hereunder shall be made by Contractor to:
Payments to Customer.
 
 
5.6
 
Late Payment
 
  In the event either Party fails to pay any amounts due by it to the other Party within the times specified in this Contract, which amounts are not the subject of a good faith dispute, the receiving Party may impose a late payment charge of ***, assessable from the first Day the payment is late. Amounts that are disputed in good faith will not be subject to late payment charges so long as any undisputed portion is paid within the time period required.
5.6.1 
Late Payment Charge.
 
5.6.2    In no way limiting the terms of Paragraph 5.6.1, in the event that Customer fails to pay any amounts due by it to the Contractor within the times specified in this Contract, which amounts are not the subject of a good faith dispute as set forth in Paragraph 5.6.1, Contractor may, by written notice to Customer, if such failure is not corrected by Customer within ten (10) Business Days after written notice is given by Contractor (or such longer period as Contractor may agree to in writing) stop Work under the Contract with respect to the Spacecraft for which payment is late until such failure is corrected. Contractor shall immediately resume Work under this Contract when the failure is corrected, and the Parties shall negotiate in good faith an equitable adjustment to schedule and price and any other affected terms and conditions to reflect the reasonable impacts on Contractor resulting from such Work stoppage. The Milestone Payment Plan will be modified to reflect the increase of Spacecraft Price within thirty (30) Days. If Customer's failure to pay has not been cured within thirty (30) Days after commencement of such Work stoppage, then Contractor shall be entitled to terminate this Contract pursuant to Paragraph 18.3.
Work Stoppage.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
6.
            
DELIVERY, TITLE AND RISK OF LOSS OR DAMAGE
 
6.1
 
Spacecraft Delivery
 
Risk of loss for each Spacecraft shall pass at the time of Intentional Ignition. Title to each Spacecraft and its components shall transfer to Customer upon Acceptance. Delivery of each Spacecraft shall occur upon either Unconditional Acceptance in writing by Customer, Conditional Acceptance in writing by Customer or declaration of Total Loss or Constructive Total Loss, each pursuant to Paragraph 7.4.3, and delivery of a Bill of Sale for the Spacecraft.
 
6.2
 Delivery of Other Deliverable Items
 
Risk of loss or damage and title to all Deliverable Items other than the Spacecraft shall transfer from Contractor to Customer upon Delivery. Delivery of such Deliverable Items shall occur upon Acceptance in writing by Customer pursuant to Paragraph 7.5. Contractor shall deliver a Bill of Sale with respect to the Deliverable Items set forth in Paragraph 3.1, Items 4(a) through 4 (e).
 
6.3
 
Title
 
Contractor warrants that title to all Deliverable Items delivered or transferred hereunder shall be good, marketable and rightfully conveyed, and shall be delivered free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, pledges and other interests whatsoever, other than those incurred by Customer. Furthermore, Contractor agrees to execute and deliver a Bill of Sale and all other instruments required, in Customer's reasonable discretion, to perfect or evidence such title in Customer.
 
7.
            
CERTIFICATION, INSPECTION, ACCEPTANCE, WAIVERS
 
7.1 
General Requirements
 
Contractor is responsible for testing, demonstrating, delivering, and certifying to Customer that each Spacecraft, and all other Deliverable Hardware and Deliverable Data as specified in Paragraph 3.1, Items 4(a) through 4(e), meet all of the requirements of this Contract, including the Spacecraft Performance Requirements. Customer's right of inspection or acceptance shall not be deemed a waiver of any Defect, except as may be expressly agreed in writing by Customer in accordance with Paragraph 7.2 below. Prior to asking Customer to accept any Deliverable Items and prior to Delivery, Contractor shall, subject to Paragraph 7.2 below, certify, in writing, in the form set forth in Attachment 10, that the Deliverable Items conform to all Contract requirements.
 
7.2 
Waivers
 
Contractor shall, in a timely manner, notify Customer at such time that Contractor determines that it will not be able to meet a particular Contract requirement or specification and shall seek a waiver from Customer. Nothing herein shall be deemed to require Customer to grant a waiver, but, if it is willing to consider doing so, Customer
may grant the waiver. No waiver granted by Customer and no denial of a waiver by Customer shall affect the Promised Delivery Date of any Deliverable Item unless Customer expressly so agrees. Any waiver approved by Customer shall be deemed an amendment to the applicable performance specification for such Deliverable Item for all purposes hereunder, from and after such approval date; provided that a waiver granted with respect to a particular Spacecraft of other Deliverable Item shall not be deemed to apply to any other Spacecraft or Deliverable Item unless the waiver expressly includes such other Spacecraft or Deliverable Item.
 
7.3 
Inspections
 
***
 
7.4 
Spacecraft Acceptance Procedure
 
  Contractor shall conduct a review (a "Spacecraft Pre-Shipment Review" or "SPSR") of each Spacecraft prior to Contractor's shipment of such Spacecraft to its Designated Launch Site. The SPSR shall be conducted in accordance with the terms of this Paragraph 7.4 and Section 4.3.17 of the Statement of Work.
7.4.1
  SPSR.
 
  Each SPSR shall take place at Contractor's facility. Contractor shall notify Customer in writing approximately thirty (30) Days prior to the date that each Spacecraft shall be available for SPSR, which shall be the scheduled date for commencement of such SPSR. If Customer cannot commence such SPSR on such scheduled date, Contractor shall make reasonable efforts to accommodate Customer's reasonable re-scheduling requests provided that any delay in completion of SPSR resulting directly from such rescheduling shall be deemed an excusable delay and such excusable delay period shall be excluded from any calculation of excusable delay Days set forth in Paragraph 18.1.
(a)
Time, Place and Notice of SPSR.
          
 
  The purpose of the SPSR shall be to review test data and analyses for each Spacecraft to determine whether such Spacecraft meets the applicable Spacecraft Performance Requirements and is therefore ready for shipment to its Designated Launch Site.
(b)
Conduct and Purpose of SPSR.
          
 
  Any pending waiver requests, or any circumstances which Contractor reasonably believes will result in a Contractor request for waiver or deviation from, provisions(s) of the performance specifications applicable to a Spacecraft or other related Deliverable Item shall be submitted to Customer and
(c)
Pending Waivers.
          
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
resolved prior to the commencement of the applicable SPSR.
 
'  Customer may cause any representatives designated by Customer to observe each SPSR; provided, however, that the provisions of Article 27 shall apply to any such representatives.
(d)
Customer
          
s Inspection Representatives.
 
  At completion of the SPSR for each Spacecraft, Contractor shall submit to Customer the SPSR results. Within ten (10) Business Days of its receipt of such results, Customer shall notify Contractor in writing of Customer's concurrence or disagreement with the results of the SPSR. In the event that Contractor and Customer concur that such SPSR demonstrates conformity of the applicable Spacecraft to the applicable requirements of the Spacecraft Performance Requirements (including any waivers or deviations previously approved by Customer), the Spacecraft shall be prepared and shipped to its Designated Launch Site for Launch. In the event that such SPSR discloses any non-conformance of the Spacecraft to the requirements of the Spacecraft Performance Requirements (not the subject of any prior waivers or deviations approved by Customer), Customer's notice shall state each such non-conformance (with reference to the applicable requirement of the Spacecraft Performance Requirements deemed not met), and Contractor shall correct or repair (in the manner determined by Contractor) each such non-conformance (except as may be subsequently waived by Customer), and resubmit the Spacecraft for SPSR in accordance with this Paragraph 7.4.1 as to each corrected or repaired element.
(e)
SPSR Results.
          
 
  All costs and expenses incurred by Customer and its representatives in connection with their activities under this Paragraph 7.4.1, including travel and living expenses, shall be borne solely by Customer.
(f)
Inspection Costs Borne by Customer.
           
 
  If at any time following the SPSR for any Spacecraft, and prior to Intentional Ignition, such Spacecraft fails to meet the Spacecraft Performance Requirements (as may be modified or waived by Customer), Contractor shall promptly undertake to correct such deficiencies prior to Intentional Ignition at its own cost and expense.
(g)
Correction of Deficiencies After SPSR.
          
 
7.4.2  Following a successful completion of the SPSR for each Spacecraft, Contractor shall ship such Spacecraft to its Designated Launch Site and proceed with the further testing and Launch of the Spacecraft and Launch Support in accordance with the Statement of Work and Attachment 3. Contractor shall notify Customer of the IOT schedule for each Spacecraft at least thirty (30) Days prior to the Launch of such Spacecraft. Each IOT shall be conducted in accordance with the
  Transport.
Statement of Work and Attachment 3, and in accordance with Article 14, Customer's representatives shall be permitted to observe all phases of the IOT.
 
7.4.3  When each IOT is completed, Contractor shall submit to Customer the test results and shall hold an acceptance review with Customer. At the conclusion of the acceptance review, including the resolution of any outstanding Spacecraft performance issues, Contractor shall deliver to Customer the final IOT report together with a Certification of one of Contractor's officers or the President or Senior Executive responsible for the Contractor's performing business unit that the applicable Spacecraft meets the criteria for Unconditional Acceptance as described in Paragraph 7.4.3(a) or for Conditional Acceptance as described in Paragraph 7.4.3(b), with if necessary, an explanation of the criteria that the Spacecraft does not meet, or that the Spacecraft is a Total Loss or a Constructive Total Loss. Within five (5) Business Days following receipt of such Certification, Customer shall either accept the Spacecraft in accordance with Paragraph 7.4.3(a) or Paragraph 7.4.3(b) hereof, or reject the Spacecraft and provide Contractor with a documented statement of reasons for any rejection. Upon either Conditional Acceptance or Unconditional Acceptance of the Spacecraft, Contractor shall be entitled to commence earning its Performance Incentives, as may be adjusted, pursuant to Paragraph 5.2.
  Final Acceptance.
 
  Customer shall be obligated to accept, in writing, without conditions, a Spacecraft when it has been verified at the acceptance review that (i) the Spacecraft has successfully passed the tests specified in the Attachment 1 and Attachment 3, (ii) it has been verified that the Spacecraft's Orbital Maneuver Life will be at least, (iii) the Spacecraft satisfies all the requirements specified in the Spacecraft Performance Requirements, as may have been amended or modified at or before SPSR with Customer's written consent, and (iv) ***:
(a)
Unconditional Acceptance.
          
***
 
***, a Defect in the Spacecraft that can be satisfactorily corrected by a switch to a redundant unit in the Spacecraft will not be deemed to affect the Spacecraft's ability to meet the criteria for Unconditional Acceptance.
 
  Customer shall be obligated to accept, in writing, a Spacecraft when it has been verified at the acceptance review that, although such Spacecraft does not meet the criteria for Unconditional Acceptance, the Spacecraft is not a Total Loss or a Constructive Total Loss. Upon Conditional Acceptance of a Spacecraft, the Performance Incentives for such Spacecraft shall be adjusted in accordance with Paragraph 5.2.
(b)
Conditional Acceptance.
          
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
  If a Spacecraft is a Total Loss or a Constructive Total Loss prior to Acceptance and has not been destroyed, Customer may accept such Spacecraft, or reject such Spacecraft and direct Contractor either to dispose of the Spacecraft or to transfer title to the Spacecraft to a third party designated by Customer.
(c)
Total Loss/Constructive Total Loss.
          
 
7.5 
Acceptance Procedures for Other Deliverable Items
 
Acceptance of Deliverable Items specified in Paragraph 3.1, Items 4(a) through (e) to be Delivered under the Contract shall occur in accordance with the requirements of this Paragraph 7.5. Contractor shall deliver test results and provide a Certification to Customer of the results of its inspection and tests of all such Deliverable Items in a form acceptable to Customer. Based upon this Certification, upon which Customer shall be entitled to rely, and any inspection or testing that Customer may conduct, upon Delivery, Customer shall either accept the Deliverable Item(s) in writing or notify Contractor in writing of those particulars in which the Deliverable Items are unacceptable. Should Customer fail to notify Contractor in writing of those particulars in which the Deliverable Items are unacceptable within ten (10) Business Days of Delivery, the Deliverable Items shall be deemed accepted by Customer. Upon receipt of a notice that any Deliverable Item is unacceptable to Customer, which notice shall state the particulars relating to such unacceptability, Contractor shall remedy such Deliverable Item. Upon Customer's satisfaction that such particulars have been remedied to conform to all applicable requirements of this Contract, the Deliverable Item shall be accepted by Customer in writing.
 
7.6 
Remedy of Defects
 
Remedy of any Defects in a Deliverable Item including the Spacecraft, but only prior to Launch, shall be accomplished by Contractor at its expense, promptly upon receipt of notice thereof. Contractor and Customer shall mutually agree on the level of retest of the Deliverable Item (together with any other potentially affected parts or systems) or an appropriate analysis, reasonably necessary to demonstrate that the Defects have been corrected and meet the requirements of the Contract.
 
7.7 
Post Launch Remedies
 
After Launch of a Spacecraft, and as provided in Section 11.10 of the Statement of Work, Contractor shall fully cooperate with Customer and Contractor shall use its best efforts at Customer's reasonable request under the circumstances, to investigate and assist Customer,, in conducting anomaly investigations and make recommendations for potential corrective action (including, without limitation, through changes in operational procedures, software, or, where possible, Spacecraft
***
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
configurations) until ***. If, due to a Launch Vehicle anomaly or other cause not attributable to Contractor, a Spacecraft is declared a Total Loss or a Constructive Total Loss, then Contractor shall be entitled to earn the Performance Incentives to the extent provided in Paragraph 5.2 related to such Spacecraft, which may be pre-paid by Customer.*** In the instance where Customer has self insured for Total Loss and/or Constructive Total loss of the Spacecraft due to a Launch Vehicle anomaly or other cause not attributable to Contractor, Customer and Contractor, at Customer's request, shall negotiate a reasonable period for payment of Performance Incentives under Paragraph 5.2, subject to the same assurances and terms specified in Paragraph 5.1.2.
 
***
 
8.
LAUNCH VEHICLE SELECTION
            
 
8.1 
Customer Responsibility.
 
Customer is responsible for providing a Launch Vehicle for each Spacecraft Launch and shall advise Contractor *** prior to each scheduled Launch of the selected Designated Launch Agency and Launch Vehicle. Customer shall enter into all Launch Agreements directly with the applicable Designated Launch Agencies. *** Prior to the SPSR for each Spacecraft, Customer may elect to change the Launch Vehicle for such Spacecraft and any additional costs of Contractor resulting from such change shall be subject to a change notice under Article 12.
 
8.2 
Launch Vehicle Availability Date.
 
Customer shall be responsible to make the Launch Vehicle for each Spacecraft available for Contractor to begin operations at the Designated Launch Site and to Launch in accordance with the schedule set forth below. Failure to provide such Launch Vehicles by these dates, and, once launch operations begin, delays that are attributable to the Designated Launch Agency, except for circumstances attributable to the Contractor, will result in excusable delays under Article 19.
 
***
 
9.
INSURANCE
            
 
9.1
 
Launch and On-Orbit Insurance
 
The Contractor shall support the Customer with all reasonably necessary presentations (oral, written, or otherwise) and provide all reasonably necessary technical information for the purpose of the Customer purchasing insurance directly from the space insurance industry. The Contractor agrees to provide the information,
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
subject to obtaining any necessary approvals under the Export Laws, to Customer consistent with the requisite insurance meeting dates.***
 
9.2
 
Insurance Claims
 
In the event of a total or partial Launch failure or a total or partial failure of the Spacecraft in orbit, Contractor shall cooperate with Customer and the applicable insurance brokers and underwriters, in connection with the investigation, preparation, filing and administration of any insurance claim pertaining to such Launch or Spacecraft failure.
***
 
9.3
  ""
Work-in-Progress
Insurance
 
At all times prior to Launch of a Spacecraft, Contractor shall maintain*** an insurance policy or policies***, which policy or policies shall name Customer as an additional loss payee, with payment under the policy to become due in the event the Spacecraft is damaged or destroyed such that Customer will have the right to terminate Contract with respect to the damaged Spacecraft. Contractor shall provide Customer with a certificate of insurance within thirty (30) Days after receipt of a written request from Customer.
 
Customer will pass through to the Contractor any third-party launch liability insurance provided for the benefit of the Contractor by each Designated Launch Agency, in accordance with the Commercial Space Launch Act and the applicable Launch license for Launches occurring in the United States, or in accordance with the amount of liability insurance required by any foreign government in the country of Launch. Customer will use best reasonable efforts to assure that the Launch Vehicle provider adds the Contractor as an additional insured to the applicable launch liability insurance policy prior to Launch of each Spacecraft.
 
10.
SUBCONTRACTS
         
 
10.1 
Subcontracts
 
Within ninety (90) Days after the Effective Date of Contract, Contractor shall provide a list of all Subcontracts with a value in excess of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) per Spacecraft and shall identify the work to be provided in each such Subcontract. Changes to this list shall be detailed in each quarterly report, to be provided by Contractor pursuant to the Statement of Work. Contractor shall supply to Customer copies of all Subcontracts with Major Subcontractors, which are placed specifically for each Spacecraft. Contractor shall ensure that all Subcontracts will permit Contractor to perform its obligations under this Contract, including meeting all Promised Delivery Dates.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
10.2 
Key Subcontracts
 
Contractor agrees to enter into major Subcontracts (hereinafter referred to as "Key Subcontracts") for the Work specified below with the persons or entities (hereinafter referred to as "Key Subcontractors") listed below. Contractor further agrees that the Key Subcontractors are necessary for the successful completion of the Work to be performed hereunder. Contractor shall not change its Key Subcontractors without Customer's prior written consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.
 
 
10.3 
Indemnification/Release
 
Contractor shall ensure that all Subcontractors release Customer from any claims arising under any Subcontract or otherwise in connection with this Contract. Contractor shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Customer from and against all claims made by any Subcontractor against Customer.
 
11.
PROPERTY ACCOUNTING
         
 
11.1 
Identification and Control
 
Contractor shall be directly responsible for and accountable for all supplies, parts, materials, components, subsystems or systems (whether in its possession or the possession of any of its Subcontractors) which are to become the property of Customer pursuant to the terms of this Contract, and which are part of the Deliverable Items to be Delivered under this Contract. For this purpose, Contractor shall (i) use commercially reasonable efforts to protect and preserve all of the Customer's Deliverable Items until Acceptance under this Contract and (ii) establish and maintain a system to control and identify, at all times and until the Delivery and Acceptance of the last Deliverable Item to be delivered hereunder, all of the aforementioned property in its possession or the possession of its Subcontractors.
 
11.2  '
Use of Inventory Parts/Use of Customer
s Parts
 
*** To the extent that Contractor uses any parts or components from its inventory such parts and components shall meet the reliability standards set forth in the Spacecraft Product Assurance Requirements. Any failures or anomalies on such items shall be reviewed and consented to by Customer.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
12.
CHANGES REQUESTED BY CONTRACTOR OR CUSTOMER
         
 
12.1 
Contract Change Notice
 
Any changes requested during the performance of this Contract which will add or delete Work, affect the design of any Spacecraft before its Delivery, change the method of shipment or packing, or place or time of any Delivery, or will affect any other requirement of this Contract, whether proposed by Contractor or Customer, shall be reflected by Contractor in writing as a contract change notice in accordance with the Statement of Work ("Contract Change Notice") issued at least thirty (30) Days prior to the proposed date of the change except for such shorter periods mutually agreed upon by the Parties which are reasonably necessary under the circumstances. If Customer requests a change, Contractor shall submit the Contract Change Notice within thirty (30) Days of Customer's request. The time periods specified in this Article and in the Statement of Work for proposing and approving changes may be shortened as necessary by mutual agreement to accommodate exigent circumstances.
 
12.2 
Acceptance of Change
 
Customer shall notify Contractor as soon as practicable under the circumstances after receipt of a Contract Change Notice whether or not it agrees with and accepts such change. If Customer agrees with and accepts the change in writing, Contractor shall proceed with the performance of the Contract as changed and an amendment to the Contract reflecting such change, and price adjustment and schedule adjustment, if any, shall be issued. If Customer does not agree to implement the change or the Parties are unable to reach any other agreement regarding such change, Contractor shall proceed with the performance of the Contract, as unchanged.
 
12.3 
Non Refusal
 
Contractor may not refuse any change that may be requested by Customer during the performance of this Contract as long as the Customer-requested change is within the general scope of this Contract and is technically feasible utilizing existing and reasonably available technology, and Customer agrees to the price adjustment and schedule adjustment, if any, proposed by Contractor in accordance with Paragraph 12.4.
 
12.4 
Price of Changes
 
***
 
12.5  
Changes To Meet Specifications
 
***
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
12.6
 
Change of Designated Orbital Position of Satellite Ka-5
 
Customer will have until EDC + six (6) months to change the Designated Orbital Position of Rainbow Ka-5 to another Western US orbital position between 110 West Longitude and 140 West Longitude at no cost or schedule impact, provided the change in orbital position does not impact the Spacecraft design other than the antenna optimization. Spacecraft performance at the new orbital position will be as mutually agreed by the Parties within thirty (30) Days after Customer's notice to make such change.
o
o
 
13.
         
CONTRACT TECHNOLOGY
 
13.1 
Disclosure of Contract Technology
 
For all purposes, Contractor shall become or remain the owner of all Contract Technology. From the EDC, and during the Orbital Maneuver Life of each Spacecraft Contractor shall retain and maintain copies of all Contract Technology (including any Contract Foreground Data or Contract Background Data previously delivered to Customer hereunder). During such period Customer may, in writing, request copies of such Contract Technology to the extent reasonably required for testing, maintaining, operating, using or marketing capacity on or services that employ any of the Spacecraft. Within seven (7) Days after receipt of such request, Contractor shall furnish copies of the requested Contract Technology, subject to governmental restrictions. If Contractor cannot supply Customer with copies of requested Contract Technology due to governmental restrictions, Contractor must document the applicable restrictions in writing to Customer and, at Customer's request, Contractor must use reasonable efforts to have such governmental restrictions amended or waived to permit Customer to obtain copies of requested Contract Technology at Customer's cost and expense. The cost of furnishing copies of such Contract Technology shall be borne by the Customer and shall include the cost of collecting, editing, duplicating, assembling and shipping, to the extent not included in the Spacecraft System Price, but shall not include any amount associated with the value of such Contract Technology. Contractor may, by appropriate marking on Contract Technology, indicate that such shall be used only in accordance with the terms of this Contract, including restrictions contained herein on the use and disclosure of Deliverable Data. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Paragraph 13.1, "Disclosure of Contract Technology", in the event Customer's request includes Contract Technology comprising software in source code format, Contractor shall not be obligated to furnish copies of such software in source code format, but instead shall be obligated to provide, subject to governmental restrictions, Customer access only to such software in source code format owned by Contractor, at Contractor's facility, provided that Customer shall not have the right to disclose to any third party or to reproduce, or copy, in whole or in part, any such software in source code format, and use of such software in source code format by Customer shall be solely in connection with testing, maintaining, operating, using or marketing capacity on or services that employ any of the Spacecraft, to the extent required. In the event Customer requests software in source code format that has been licensed to Contractor by a third party software licensor, Contractor shall only be required to use reasonable
efforts to obtain from such third party software licensor such software in source code format.
 
13.2 
R
ights Granted in Contract Technology
 
  Subject to Article 13.1, "Disclosure of Contract Technology," Contractor hereby grants to Customer (a) an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty free, worldwide Right to Use Contract Foreground Data in connection with testing, maintaining, operating, using, and marketing capacity on or services that employ any of the Spacecraft, (b) an irrevocable (except upon termination of this Contract under Articles 17 and 18), non-exclusive, royalty free, worldwide Right to Use Contract Background Data solely in connection with testing, maintaining, operating, using, and marketing capacity on or services that employ any of the Spacecraft, and (c) the right to reproduce (together with all copyright and other restrictive markings) and disclose to customers and potential customers of Customer reasonably selected portions of the Deliverable Data and Spacecraft Performance Requirements for the purpose of marketing capacity and services on any of the Spacecraft, provided that such customers and potential customers agree to be bound by restrictions contained herein on the use and disclosure of Deliverable Data. In no event shall Customer disclose, distribute, transfer, or otherwise provide Contract Foreground Data, Contract Background Data, Deliverable Data or Spacecraft Performance Requirements, in whole or in part, to any entity in the business of designing and/or manufacturing spacecraft.
13.2.1
  Contract Foreground Data and Contract Background Data.
 
13.2.2  For all Contract Intellectual Property owned by Contractor or under which Contractor has rights, Contractor hereby grants to Customer an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty free, worldwide License to Practice under such Contract Intellectual Property solely in connection with testing, maintaining, operating, using, and marketing capacity on or services that employ any of the Spacecraft. With respect to Contractor's trademarks, trademark applications, and all registrations and recordings thereof ("trademarks"), Customer agrees that any use of such trademarks by Customer shall be in a manner consistent with Contractor's uses thereof and any such use by Customer of the trademarks shall inure to the benefit of Contractor.
  Contract Intellectual Property.
 
13.3 
***
 
    Unless otherwise required in this Article 13, as of EDC and throughout the Orbital Maneuver Life of each Spacecraft, Contractor agrees to maintain all Contract Technology at Contractor's facilities and to keep such Contract Technology updated and current throughout the Orbital Maneuver Life of each Spacecraft. Customer may, upon reasonable request to Contractor, access the area where the Contract Technology is maintained for the purposes of ascertaining compliance with this Paragraph 13.3.1.
13.3.1
Segregation of Contract Technology.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
13.3.2
  ***
 
13.3.3  Contractor represents, warrants and covenants that the Contract Technology kept at Contractor's facilities ***:
  Representations.
 
  will comprise all of the Contract Technology (including the source code language statement for any and all applicable software) to the extent its retention is consistent with Contractor's normal retention policies;
(a)
Complete.
          
 
  will be kept current, including all updates needed to maintain compliance with the terms of this Contract; and
(b)
Current.
          
 
  will be in a form suitable for reproduction by Customer.
(c)
Form.
          
 
***
 
14.
RIGHT OF ACCESS, REPORTS, TESTING, MONITORING
         
 
14.1
 
Access
 
Customer shall have the access rights specified below and as described in the Statement of Work:
 
  (i) In accordance with Article 27 Confidentiality, (ii) within normal business hours, (iii) accompanied by Contractor's personnel (except to the extent Contractor's accompaniment is not required for Contractor's other commercial US customers), and (iv) on a non-interference basis, Customer, and its representatives and consultants that are not employees of a satellite manufacturer in direct competition with Contractor, shall be allowed access to all Work and Work in progress, and all data and information related to this Contract (including without limitation the data and information specified in the Statement of Work and Attachment 3), including all Major or Key Subcontractors (and other Subcontractors with such Subcontractors consent which, at the request of the Customer, the Contractor shall use its best commercial efforts to obtain), and all facilities therefore, subject to governmental restrictions, for purposes of observation, inspection, examination and evaluation of the Work, at any reasonable time prior to Acceptance of the relevant Deliverable Item and thereafter to the extent such data and information are of the type customarily retained in the ordinary course of business. If Customer and /or its representatives and/or its consultants are denied access as set forth herein due to governmental restrictions, Contractor shall document in writing such governmental restrictions and, at Customer request, use best commercial efforts to amend or remove such governmental restrictions to access. Customer's and its representatives' personnel visiting or resident at Contractor's or any Subcontractor's facilities shall abide by the applicable security and safety regulations,
14.1.1
 Work.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
provided that reasonable notice of any such regulations is provided by Contractor or Subcontractor, as applicable, and any such access shall not interfere with normal business operations of Contractor or Subcontractor, as applicable.
 
14.1.2  Customer and its representatives shall be given reasonable notice of and be entitled to attend all Program Review Meetings of the Contractor as specified in the Statement of Work
  Program Review Meetings.
 
14.1.3  Contractor will ensure that all of the Major and Key Subcontracts for items specific to the Spacecraft contain provisions providing access rights to Customer to the subject matter of the Subcontract to the same extent as access is provided hereunder, subject to governmental restrictions. If governmental restrictions prevent Customer access, Contractor shall provide Customer with a written explanation of the governmental restrictions and, if requested by Customer, shall its best commercial efforts to assist Subcontractor with amending or removing such governmental restrictions. With respect to all other Subcontracts, Contractor shall use reasonable efforts to ensure that Customer has access to the applicable Subcontractor's Work, as required hereunder.
  Major/Key Subcontracts.
 
14.1.4  Notwithstanding the fact that Customer's or its representatives' personnel resident at the Contractor's or any Subcontractors' facility will be in consultation with the Contractor's or Subcontractors' (as applicable) personnel, they shall remain employees of Customer, or its representatives (as applicable), and as such, compensation for their services and all related expenses remains the responsibility of Customer or its representatives (as applicable).
  Customer Employees.
 
14.2 
Reports
 
Contractor shall deliver to Customer written progress and status reports, test data, and any final reports, in accordance with the requirements of Attachment 1 and Attachment 3. All reports furnished pursuant to this Paragraph may be used and distributed by Customer in accordance with the provisions of this Contract.
 
14.3 
Performance Testing
 
Customer and its representatives and consultants shall have the rights with respect to testing set forth below and, in Attachment 1, Attachment 3 and Attachment 5 on a non-interference basis and accompanied by Contractor's representatives:
 
  Customer, through its representatives and consultants, shall have the right to witness all developmental, qualification, protoflight and acceptance testing of Deliverable Items required by this Contract at Contractor's or a Key or Major Subcontractor's plant and other Subcontractors with such Subcontractors consent which, at the request of the Customer, Contractor shall use best commercial efforts to obtain or at such other place as the tests are conducted or test results are monitored, and Customer shall be provided with copies of all test results. If governmental restrictions prohibit the witness of such testing, Contractor shall provide Customer with written documentation of the applicable governmental restrictions and, if
14.3.1
  Witness of Tests.
requested by Customer, shall use its best commercial efforts to amend or remove any such restrictions.
 
14.3.2  Customer shall have the right reasonably to specify the times and places for the undertaking of final acceptance testing of the TT&C Station Equipment and the Satellite Simulators set out in Paragraph 3.1 Deliverable Items 4(a) and 4(c).
  TT&C Station Equipment Satellite Simulators Acceptance Tests.
 
14.3.3  If Contractor or any Subcontractor establishes the time, date, or location of any major system or subsystem or any units requiring qualification testing required under this Contract, Contractor shall provide, or cause the Subcontractor to provide, Customer with the advance notice specified in this Contract, or if not specified, with reasonable advance notice, which in the case of units requiring qualification shall be no less than seven (7) Days prior to the scheduled test.
  Notice of Tests.
 
14.3.4  All testing of a Spacecraft and other Deliverable Items under this Contract shall be undertaken in accordance with the Statement of Work, Attachment 3 and Attachment 5.
  Spacecraft and Ground Station Test Plan.
 
14.4 
Monitoring
 
Approximately six (6) of Customer's representatives or consultants shall be located at the manufacturing site of the Spacecraft for the purpose of monitoring the progress of the Work as specified in the Statement of Work. Contractor shall provide office and other facilities to such representatives as described in the Statement of Work. In addition, Contractor shall provide adequate parking spaces for Customer on-site representatives. Customer personnel and representatives shall have twenty-four (24) -hour access to the office space provided hereunder.
 
14.5 
Export Laws Compliance
 
    Notwithstanding any provision of this Contract, any obligation of Contractor hereunder to provide hardware, software, Deliverable Data, other technical information or technical services, or access to Contractor's or Subcontractors' facilities to Customer, its employees, representatives, consultants or agents shall be subject to applicable Export Laws. The Parties shall work cooperatively and in good faith to implement this Contract in compliance with such Export Laws.
14.5.1
General.
 
14.5.2  Contractor shall promptly implement the Export Laws Compliance Program described in Attachment 9 to obtain and maintain all authorizations and consents under the Export Laws necessary to permit Customer to take Delivery of all Deliverable Items and to permit Customer, the Designated Launch Agencies, the insurance brokers and underwriters, the Customer's consultants or other third parties with a need to access information supplied by Contractor under any of the provisions of the Contract, and their respective personnel, agents and consultants, to have access to the Work, reports, testing and monitoring and information, documents and data related thereto, as specified in this Contract. To the extent that Customer, the Designated Launch Agencies, the insurance brokers and underwriters, the Customer's consultants or other third parties with a need to access information supplied by
  Compliance Program.
 
Contractor under any of the provisions of the Contract is denied access to any Deliverable Items, Work, reports, testing and monitoring and any documentation and data related thereto, Contractor represents that all of the foregoing shall be consistent with the requirements of this Contract and the best practices of the spacecraft manufacturing industry.
 
14.5.3  .  CUSTOMER UNDERSTANDS AND WARRANTS THAT IT SHALL NOT RE-EXPORT, RE-TRANSFER OR DIVERT TO ANY THIRD PARTY ANY U.S. ORIGIN ITEM THAT IS REGULATED BY THE U.S. MUNITIONS LIST (UML) AND PROVIDED TO CUSTOMER UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY AUTHORIZED BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE EXPORT LAWS.
RE-EXPORT
 
15.
WARRANTY
         
 
 
15.1
Spacecraft Warranty
 
Contractor warrants that each Spacecraft shall be in good working order and free of Defects in design, materials and workmanship and shall conform to requirements of this Contract, including the Spacecraft Performance Requirements, as may be modified by any approved waivers or deviations pursuant to Paragraph 7.2. The above warranty on each Spacecraft shall end upon Launch of the Spacecraft. Contractor's only liability under the warranty shall be as and to the extent that prior to Launch of the Spacecraft, if the Spacecraft fails to meet the requirements of this Contract, including the Spacecraft Performance Requirements, as may be modified by any approved waivers or deviations pursuant to Paragraph 7.2, Contractor shall promptly undertake to correct such deficiencies, in the manner determined by Contractor's best technical judgment, at its own cost and expense. In the event a Spacecraft is to be delivered to storage, Contractor warrants that the Spacecraft shall be in good working order and free of Defects in design, materials and/or workmanship and conform to the requirements of this Contract, including the Spacecraft Performance Requirements, as may be modified by any approved waivers or deviations pursuant to Paragraph 7.2, for***. Contractor's only liability under the preceding sentence shall be as and to the extent that during the warranty period (as defined in the preceding sentence), if the Spacecraft fails to meet the requirements of this Contract, including the Spacecraft Performance Requirements, Contractor shall promptly undertake to correct such deficiencies, in the manner determined by Contractor's best technical judgment, at its own cost and expense.
 
15.2
 
Warranty for Deliverable Items Other Than Spacecraft
 
Contractor warrants that Deliverable Items other than Spacecraft shall be in good working order and free of Defects in design, material and workmanship and shall conform to the applicable requirements of this Contract, including applicable
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
 
specifications, as modified by any waivers granted by Customer hereunder ***. Customer shall have the right, at any time during the warranty period specified above and irrespective of prior inspections or acceptances, to require correction of any Defect occurring to any Deliverable Item other than the Spacecraft, including any integrated software or services not conforming to the requirements herein and require that Contractor, at its expense, correct or replace (at Contractor's option) such non-conforming Deliverable Item to make such Deliverable Item, including integrated software, conforming. If Contractor fails to correct or replace such defective Deliverable Item other than the Spacecraft, including integrated software, within a reasonable period after notification from Customer, Customer may, by contract or otherwise, correct or replace such defective Deliverable Item, including integrated software, and Contractor shall reimburse Customer for such correction or replacement, provided that Customer provides Contractor with documentation related to the repair or replacement.***
 
 
15.3
Disclaimer
 
EXCEPT AND TO THE EXTENT EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN THIS CONTRACT, CONTRACTOR DISCLAIMS ANY OTHER WARRANTY, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF SUITABILITY OR MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR USE OR FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, WITH REGARD TO ANY SPACECRAFT OR ANY OTHER DELIVERABLE ITEM
 
 
15.4
Assistance
 
In addition to the warranty provisions of this 15, Contractor agrees to provide reasonable support including, but not limited to, the support of Subcontractors, to Customer, at no cost to Customer in attending to, assisting in diagnosing and recommending corrective action for any Spacecraft failure or any other anomaly occurring with or on any Spacecraft during the Service Life and for as long thereafter as the Contractor receives Performance Incentives in accordance with Paragraph 5.2 hereof. Contractor specifically acknowledges that its obligation pursuant to this Paragraph shall continue during the entire Service Life of a Spacecraft, whether or not Contractor is earning Performance Incentives pursuant to Paragraph 5.2. Contractor shall be compensated on a reasonable time and material basis for any assistance given hereunder with respect to a Spacecraft operating in excess of the Service Life, but only if Contractor is not receiving Performance Incentives with respect to such Spacecraft.
 
16.
DEFICIENCIES NOTED IN OTHER SPACECRAFT
         
 
 
16.1
Qualification Heritage
 
Contractor represents and warrants that, except for items qualified but not flown, in process qualifications, and qualifications for this program ***, each and every unit,
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
 
system, subsystem and process to be employed on or used in connection with each of the Spacecraft and associated Deliverable Hardware and software (which shall not be changed without Customer's express written consent) has been employed on, or used in connection with, at least one (1) in-orbit spacecraft and that, whether on a Rainbow or other spacecraft, has (to Contractor's knowledge) experienced no in-orbit or unresolved ground test anomalies,***, which, in each case, have been remedied for future spacecraft, including the Spacecraft, or determined to be isolated to the particular spacecraft as to which the anomaly was identified, in each case as reasonably and fairly summarized in writing to Customer in Attachment 14 attached hereto.
 
 
16.2
Notice
 
Whether before or after Acceptance of any Spacecraft, Contractor shall promptly notify Customer of any circumstance, known to Contractor, or identified by Contractor or Customer, and determined and documented by Contractor to be relevant to such Spacecraft, that would make any statement set forth in Paragraph 16.1, if made at the time, no longer correct and /or complete, and of any other data available to it that indicates (i) that conditions exist which affect or may affect adversely the Spacecraft operation, or (ii) that the Spacecraft performance and/or operation depart or may depart from that expected from the program documentation at any time during the period of the Spacecraft's Service Life, or (iii) that the Spacecraft does not meet all the requirements of the Spacecraft Performance Requirements, or cannot be reasonably predicted to be able to meet the *** (v) that any other parameter of an in-orbit spacecraft of similar design to the Spacecraft is trending towards its design limit prematurely. Contractor shall take appropriate corrective measures at its sole cost if the Spacecraft has not been Launched so as to eliminate, all deficiencies that the Spacecraft conforms to all applicable requirements of this Contract. If the Spacecraft has been Launched, Contractor shall, on a commercially reasonable efforts basis, recommend whatever reasonable corrective measures are available to it (including software changes, changes to operational procedures and any other ground-based solutions) *** so as to eliminate or ameliorate the effect of the deficiencies (unless the Parties mutually determine that correcting or bypassing a malfunction or anomaly in the Spacecraft software will harm the operation of the Spacecraft). Customer shall have the right to reject, until SPSR any Spacecraft that does not meet the requirements of this 16 and Customer shall have the right to require Contractor to remedy any malfunction or anomaly until Launch of the Spacecraft. Thereafter, Customer's obligations to complete Delivery and Acceptance of the Spacecraft shall be governed by other provisions of this Contract.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
17.
TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE
         
 
 
17.1
Termination
 
17.1.1  Customer may, prior to Contractor's completion of all Work, by written notice issued by Customer's Authorized Representative, terminate this Contract in whole, or in part (except for a Spacecraft after Launch and for any Deliverable Items for which Delivery and Acceptance have been completed), for its convenience, whereupon Contractor shall cease Work in accordance with the terms of said notice.
  General.
 
***
 
 
17.2
Termination Expense
 
***
 
17.3
  Termination Charges
 
***
 
17.4
  Subcontractor Settlements
 
Contractor shall advise Customer of all proposed settlements with vendors and Subcontractors in the event of termination, and shall provide to Customer the terms of the settlement, including a reference to the contractual provision relied upon to support such termination settlement.
 
 
17.5
Inventory
 
***
 
17.6
 
Subcontracts
 
Contractor shall place in any Major/Key Subcontracts entered into after EDC terms that will enable the Contractor to terminate such Subcontracts in the same or similar manner as set forth in this 17.6.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
 
***
17.7
 
 
18.
TERMINATION FOR CAUSE
         
 
 
18.1
Termination by Customer
 
  Customer may, by written notice issued by Customer's Authorized Representative, terminate this Contract with respect to any Spacecraft (unless it has been Launched) and/or with respect to other Deliverable Items (except for any Deliverable Items for which Delivery and Acceptance have been completed), if:
Termination.
 
***
(a)
  
 
***
(b)
  
 
Intentionally omitted;
(c)
  
 
***
(d)
  
 
***
(e)
  
 
***
(f)
   
 
  .  ***
18.1.2
Consequences of Termination
 
  ***
18.1.3
  Launch Vehicle.
 
  Upon receipt by Customer of the amounts specified above, Contractor shall be the owner of all Work terminated, and Customer shall return or destroy all Contract Technology and/or Deliverable Data related to the terminated Deliverable Items. The rights and remedies of Customer provided in this Paragraph 18.1 are the sole and exclusive remedy to Customer for Customer's termination for cause hereunder.
18.1.4
  Ownership of Work.
 
 
18.2
Improper Termination
 
If, after termination under the provisions of Paragraph 18.1, it is determined for any reason that the Contract was terminated without cause under the provisions of this Article, the rights and obligations of the Parties shall be the same as if termination had been effected pursuant to 17.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 26b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
 
18.3
 
Termination by Contractor
 
18.3.1  .  Contractor may, by written notice issued by Contractor's Authorized Representative, terminate this Contract with respect to a particular Spacecraft or other Deliverable Item (except for any Deliverable Items for which Delivery and Acceptance have been completed and paid for by Customer) if Customer has failed to make any payment applicable to such particular Spacecraft or other Deliverable Item within thirty (30) Days of the Payment Due Date in accordance with the Milestone Payment Plan and such failure is not cured within a period of an additional thirty (30) Days after notice of such failure is given by Contractor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, amounts which are disputed in good faith shall not be justification for Contractor to terminate this Contract pursuant to this Paragraph 18.3.1, provided any undisputed portion is paid within the time period required. If a termination occurs under this Paragraph 18.3.1, Contractor shall be entitled to immediately stop Work on the terminated item under this Contract and shall be entitled to a settlement calculated pursuant to 17. This Paragraph shall not be applicable where Contractor has required that an irrevocable standby Letter of Credit be established in favor of Contractor under Paragraph 5.1.2. In such instance, the requirements of Paragraph 5.1.2 shall take precedence.
Non-Payment
 
18.3.2  .  In the event Customer fails to maintain any required Letter of Credit, or replenish the amount available for draw under the Letter of Credit in accordance with the terms of Paragraphs 5.1.2(b) and (c) of the Contract, or in the event that Contractor has not been able to collect under the Letter of Credit any payment not received by its Payment Due Date and such late payment has not been remedied within thirty (30) Days of Contractor's notice of a Letter of Credit deficiency described above, the Contractor shall be entitled to terminate this Contract and shall treat the termination as having issued under Article 17.
Letter of Credit
 
19.
EXCUSABLE DELAYS
         
 
Delays in Delivery resulting from acts of God or of the public enemy, acts of a government in its sovereign capacity, natural disasters, earthquake, fires, floods, riots, strikes, lock-outs (excluding strikes or lock-outs at Contractor owned or operated facilities), epidemics, blockades, quarantine restrictions and embargoes, acts of terrorism, launcher unavailability, declared war, civil insurrection, or work stoppage by Contractor under Paragraph 5.6.2 provided in every case such acts or occurrences are without the fault or negligence of or result from the actions or inactions of Contractor and its Subcontractors, shall constitute excusable delays if a written claim thereof together with information sufficient to support such claim is received by Customer within ten (10) Business Days after the Contractor reasonably determines that the act or occurrence may delay Delivery. Contractor shall provide written evidence of the period of such delay. Contractor shall use reasonable commercial efforts to minimize the effect of any force majeure delay through the use of any work-around solution, including to the extent appropriate but without limitation, through the use of work-around schedules, twenty-four (24)-hour operations, and through the use of alternative suppliers (to be approved by Customer where required under 10). The Delivery
requirements shall be extended by the amount of such period as is supported by the evidence provided;***.
 
20.
KEY PERSONNEL
         
 
It is agreed that the following Contractor employees and positions are necessary for the successful performance of this Contract:
 
Key Personnel  ***  Position
 
In the event one (1) or more of the above-named personnel are no longer available for the performance of this Contract, Contractor agrees to replace such personnel, after consultation with Customer, with personnel of a comparable level of experience, qualifications and ability.
 
21.
DISPUTES
         
 
21.1
 
Notice
 
If, during the course of performance of the Contract, either Party has cause to believe that the other Party's performance, or plan for performance, is such that the obligations of the other Party, as stated in this Contract will not be met, the Party shall give written notice of its objections and the reasons therefore and may recommend corrective action by the other Party. The Contractor's Program Manager shall consult with Customer's Program Manager in an effort to reach an agreement to overcome the objections (first instance).
 
21.2
 Escalation
 
In the event that an agreement cannot be reached within ten (10) Business Days of receipt of written notice, then either Party may request, within a further period of two (2) Business Days, that the dispute be escalated and the respective positions of the Parties shall be forwarded to the Contractor's Vice-President, and Customer's equivalent Vice-President, for discussion, and an attempt shall be made to reach agreement to overcome the objections (second instance).
 
21.3
 
Further Escalation
 
In the event that agreement cannot be reached in the second instance within twenty (20) Business Days, then either Party may request within a further period of two (2) Business Days, that the dispute be escalated and the positions of the Parties shall be forwarded to Customer's President and the President of Lockheed Martin
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
Commercial Space Systems for resolution of the objections (third instance). If agreement still cannot be reached within ten (10) Business Days, either Party may invoke Paragraph 21.4.
 
Notwithstanding the timing requirements specified above nothing shall preclude a Party from seeking immediate injunctive relief in situations it deems appropriate.
 
21.4
 
Litigation
 
Each of the Parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally consents to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and of the United States of America, in each case having jurisdiction over the County of New York, for any litigation arising out of or relating to this Contract and the transactions contemplated hereby (and agrees not to commence any litigation relating thereto except in such courts unless such courts shall have declined to exercise jurisdiction). Each of the Parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any litigation arising out of this Contract or the transactions contemplated hereby in the courts of the State of New York or the United States of America, in each case having jurisdiction over the County of New York, and hereby further irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such litigation brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient or improper forum.
 
21.5
 
Other Remedies
 
The Parties acknowledge and agree that except for failure(s) of Contractor that are excusable under Article 19, Customer is entitled to pursue any equitable rights and remedies that are available in connection with Contractor's failure to satisfy its obligations in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Contract; provided Customer can meet its burden of proof for such equitable remedies.
 
22.
INDEMNIFICATION
         
 
22.1
 
Contractor's General Indemnification
 
Contractor shall indemnify and hold Customer, its officers, directors, agents, employees, owners, subsidiaries, affiliates, successors and assigns, or any of them, harmless from any and all loss, damage, liability or expense, resulting from damage to all property (excluding damage to Spacecraft caused after Launch) and injuries, including death, to all persons (natural or juridical), arising from any occurrence caused by an act or omission of Contractor, its Subcontractors, or any of them, and Contractor shall at its sole expense defend any claims, actions, suits and proceedings, whether in law or equity, brought against Customer, its officers, directors, agents, employees, owners, subsidiaries, affiliates, successors and assigns, or any of them, on account thereof, and shall pay all expenses, including attorney's fees, and satisfy all judgments as may be incurred by or rendered against them, or any of them, in connection therewith, provided Contractor is given prompt notice of any such claim, action, suit or proceeding. Customer shall provide, at Contractor's written request and sole expense,
 
such assistance and information as may be reasonably provided by Customer in connection with the defense of any such action.
 
22.2
 
Customer's General Indemnification
 
Customer shall indemnify and hold Contractor, its officers, directors, agents, employees, owners, subsidiaries, affiliates, successors and assigns, or any of them, harmless from any and all loss, damage, liability or expense, resulting from damage to all property and injuries, including death, to all persons (natural or juridical), arising from any occurrence caused by an act or omission of Customer or its subcontractors, and Customer shall at its sole expense defend any claims, actions, suits and proceedings, whether in law or equity, brought against Contractor, its officers, directors, agents, employees, owners, subsidiaries, affiliates, successors and assigns, or any of them, on account thereof, and shall pay all expenses, including attorney's fees, and satisfy all judgments as may be incurred by or rendered against them, or any of them, in connection therewith, provided Customer is given prompt notice of any such claim, action, suit or proceeding. Contractor shall provide, at Customer's written request and sole expense, such assistance and information as may be reasonably provided by Contractor in connection with the defense of any such action.
 
22.3
 
Contractor's Intellectual Property Indemnification
 
***
22.3.1
 
Indemnity.
 
22.3.2
  Cure. ***
 
 
22.4
Intellectual Property Indemnification Exclusion
 
The indemnity contained in Paragraph 3 shall not apply where Contractor can show that the infringement or alleged infringement which is the subject of the claim in question resulted from a modification or addition to any Deliverable Item after Acceptance which Customer requested to be carried out by an entity, other than Contractor, or which was carried out by Customer itself, and which, in either case, did not arise from (i) an obligation of Contractor under the Contract; or (ii) a specific recommendation by Contractor. In addition, Contractor shall have no liability for any infringement to the extent arising from use of any Deliverable Item other than as or in connection with a communications satellite or the combination of such item or part with any other item or part not furnished to Customer by Contractor hereunder or approved or recommended by Contractor, unless such combination is customary in the industry.
 
Customer shall hold Contractor harmless against any expense, judgment or loss for infringement of any patents, copyrights or trademarks, which results from Contractor's use of or compliance with designs, detailed specifications (not including performance specifications) provided by Customer. Contractor acknowledges that as at EDC none of the foregoing has been provided by Customer to Contractor.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
22.5
 
Indemnification For Taxes
 
Contractor shall assume responsibility for, and shall hold Customer harmless from all taxes, duties, tariffs or similar charges, however denominated, which may be required under any laws, and which become due by reason of the performance of Work under this Contract or any Subcontract hereunder, and shall execute and deliver such other further instruments, and comply with such requirements of said laws, as may be necessary thereunder to confirm and effectuate this Contract, including making of payment of any interest or penalties related to or arising from such taxes, duties, tariffs or other charges.
 
22.6
 
Procedures
 
In the event of a claim with respect to which a Party is entitled to indemnification hereunder, such party ("Indemnified Party") shall notify the other party ("Indemnifying Party") in writing as soon as practicable, but in no event later than fifteen (15) Days after receipt of such claim; provided that a delay in giving such notice shall not preclude the Indemnified Party from seeking indemnification hereunder if such delay has not materially prejudiced the Indemnifying Party's ability to defend such claim. The Indemnifying Party shall promptly defend such claim (by counsel of its own choosing and reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party) and the Indemnified Party shall reasonably cooperate with the Indemnifying Party in the defense of such claim, including the settlement of the matter on the basis stipulated by the Indemnifying Party (with the Indemnifying Party being responsible for all costs and expenses of such settlement and the reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Indemnified Party in cooperating with the Indemnifying Party), subject to the limitations on settlement described in Paragraphs 22.6.1 and 22.6.2 below. If the Indemnifying Party, within a reasonable time after notice of a claim, fails to defend the Indemnified Party, the Indemnified Party shall be entitled to undertake the defense, compromise or settlement of such claim at the expense of, for the account and at the risk of the Indemnifying Party. Upon the assumption by the Indemnifying Party of the defense of such claim, the Indemnifying Party may settle or compromise such claim as it sees fit; provided, however, that anything in this Paragraph to the contrary notwithstanding:
 
22.6.1  If there is a reasonable probability that a settlement or compromise of a claim may materially and adversely affect the Indemnified Party, the Indemnifying Party shall not so settle or compromise such claim without the consent of the Indemnified Party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld; and
  Settlement.
 
22.6.2  If the facts giving rise to indemnification hereunder shall involve a possible claim by the Indemnified Party against a third party, the Indemnified Party shall have the right, at its own cost and expense to undertake the prosecution, compromise, and settlement of such claim.
  Counterclaim.
 
23.
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
         
 
23.1
 
Limitation
 
***  NEITHER PARTY SHALL BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER, TO ITS OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, CONTRACTORS OR SUBCONTRACTORS AT ANY TIER (INCLUDING SUPPLIERS OF ANY KIND), AGENTS OR CUSTOMERS, TO ITS PERMITTED ASSIGNEES OR SUCCESSOR OWNERS OF ANY SPACECRAFT OR OTHER DELIVERABLE ITEM OR TO ANY OTHER PERSON CLAIMING BY OR THROUGH SUCH PARTY FOR ANY AMOUNTS REPRESENTING LOSS OF PROFITS, LOSS OF BUSINESS, OR SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, ARISING FROM OR RELATING TO THE PERFORMANCE OR NONPERFORMANCE OF THIS CONTRACT OR ANY ACTS OR OMISSIONS ASSOCIATED THEREWITH OR RELATED TO THE USE OF ANY ITEMS DELIVERED OR SERVICES FURNISHED HEREUNDER, WHETHER THE BASIS OF SUCH LIABILITY IS BREACH OF CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE AND STRICT LIABILITY), STATUTE OR OTHER LEGAL THEORY. THE PARTIES SHALL INDEMNIFY EACH OTHER AND HOLD EACH OTHER HARMLESS FROM AND AGAINST ANY CLAIM ASSERTED DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY AGAINST IT THAT IS WITHIN THE SCOPE OF THE FOREGOING LIMITATION OF LIABILITY AND DISCLAIMER.
 
23.2
 
Exceptions.
 
The foregoing limitations of liability shall not apply to a Party's obligations to indemnify a third party claim pursuant to 22 or any other provisions of this Contract relating to indemnification of a third party claim. Additionally, the Parties acknowledge and agree that amounts set forth in this Contract as liquidated damages amounts are not and shall not be construed to be, consequential damages.
 
24.
DAMAGE TO PERSONS OR PROPERTY, ASSOCIATED WITH LAUNCH, INTERPARTY WAIVER
         
 
With respect to loss or damage to property, or personal injury or death, arising out of activities at the Designated Launch Sites, both Parties, including their respective contractors, subcontractors, directors, officers, subsidiaries, employees, agents, suppliers and insurers, agree to be bound to such inter-party waiver as the Designated Launch Agencies may set forth in the Launch Agreements, provided that the waiver contains reciprocal rights for both Parties and is substantially consistent with the standard provisions of such Designated Launch Agencies.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
25.
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
         
 
25.1
 
Mutual Representations and Warranties
 
Each Party represents, covenants and warrants to the other that:
 
25.1.1  It is a corporation or limited liability company, duly organized and validly existing and with the power to undertake the obligations set forth in this Contract;
Existence. 
 
25.1.2  All action required to be taken by it to execute, deliver and perform the terms of this Contract have been taken;
Authority. 
 
25.1.3  The execution and delivery of this Contract by it will cause this Contract to constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of it enforceable in accordance with its terms, except where enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally or general principles of equity; and
Binding Agreement. 
 
25.1.4  There is no material litigation existing, threatened or pending against it which, if determined adversely, might affect its ability to fulfill any of its obligations under this Contract.
Litigation. 
 
25.2
 
Contractor's Special Representations and Warranties
 
Contractor represents, covenants and warrants to Customer that:
 
25.2.1  Contractor validly holds or is otherwise authorized to use or incorporate into the Work all Contract Intellectual Property; each Patent, trademark, and copyright owned by Contractor that is part of Contract Intellectual Property is subsisting and has not been adjudged invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, and to Contractor's best knowledge, each is validly issued or for applications, is in proper form, not disclaimed and has been duly maintained, including the submission of all necessary filings in accordance with the legal and administrative requirements of the appropriate jurisdiction, and each issued Patent and registered trademark and copyright owned by Contractor that is part of Contract Intellectual Property is enforceable and is not subject to claims of adverse limitations; none of the Contract Intellectual Property is, to the best of Contractor's knowledge as of EDC, the subject of infringement or other violations of intellectual property protections by any third party; and all of the Contract Intellectual Property is free from any lien, claim or other encumbrance, including as a pledge of collateral. Contractor shall employ all reasonable commercial efforts to retain all Contract Intellectual Property.
Contract Intellectual Property. 
 
25.2.2  As of EDC, to the best of Contractor's knowledge, there are no claims filed, or, threatened that any of the Contract Technology or the practice thereof infringe or violate in any way any Patent or other intellectual property rights of any third party. Contractor has the authority, or will obtain the necessary rights, to grant to Customer the licenses and rights to the Contract Technology according to the terms of this Contract.
Contract Technology. 
 
26.
ASSIGNMENT
         
 
All the terms, covenants and conditions of this Contract shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon Customer's successors and assigns and Contractor's successors and permitted assigns to the same extent as said terms, covenants and conditions inure to the benefit of and are binding upon Customer and Contractor. Neither this Contract nor any of the rights, duties, and obligations of either Party under this Contract may be assigned or delegated without the prior written consent of the other Party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Any attempted assignment or delegation, without such consent, shall be void and without effect. ***No assignment of this Contract shall result in any change in the obligations of the assigning Party hereunder. In the event that either Party is sold to or merged into another entity, its responsibilities under this Contract shall not be altered and the successor organization shall be liable for performance of such Party's obligations under this Contract.
 
27.
CONFIDENTIALITY
         
 
27.1
 
Identification of Proprietary Information
 
All information, in whatever form, orally or in any written or electronic form, that has been or may be disclosed in the future by one Party to the other in connection with this Contract shall be deemed proprietary information, if written, if marked "proprietary" or "confidential," or if disclosed orally, if so stated to the receiving Party by the disclosing Party at the time of disclosure (together "Proprietary Information").
 
27.2
 
Restrictions on Use, Disclosure
 
Neither Party shall use the Proprietary Information of the other Party except for the purpose of this Contract. Neither Party shall disclose the Proprietary Information of the other Party except: (1) on a confidential and need-to-know (for the purposes specified herein) basis to its employees, agents, subcontractors, and advisors, each of whom shall be subject to comparable restrictions of confidentiality; (2) as to information that is already rightfully in the possession of the receiving Party through other means and without such confidentiality restrictions; (3) as to information that is required to be disclosed under applicable law or by a valid subpoena or other court or governmental order, decree, regulation or rule; provided, however, that if disclosure is required under this provision, the receiving Party shall advise the disclosing Party of the requirement to disclose Proprietary Information prior to such disclosure and as soon as reasonably practicable after the receiving Party becomes aware of such required disclosure; and further provided that upon the request of the disclosing Party, the receiving Party agrees to cooperate in good faith and at the expense of the disclosing Party in any reasonable and lawful actions which the disclosing Party takes to resist such disclosure,
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
to limit the information to be disclosed or to limit the extent to which the information so disclosed may be used or made available to third parties; or (4) as to information that is released for public disclosure by the disclosing Party or is otherwise available in the public domain.
 
27.3
 
Company Restricted Information
 
In addition to the Proprietary Information in Paragraph 27.1, and without limitation thereto, Contractor acknowledges and agrees that all information regarding Customer's contemplated use of or customers for the Spacecraft, areas of coverage, potential types of traffic or related requirements, the performance of the, and all information that could be revealing of the foregoing, shall be deemed Customer's Proprietary Information and "Company Restricted Information." In addition to the obligations set forth in Paragraph 27.2, Contractor agrees that its disclosure of Company Restricted Information under Paragraph 27.2 above shall be limited to individuals within the manufacturing division of Contractor who have no responsibility for, or participation in, any venture in which Contractor may have any interest that involves the provision of any satellite communications services, including any individuals who may have dual roles.
 
27.4
  Standard of Care
 
Each Party agrees to exercise a level of care consistent with that employed by said Party for its most highly restricted and proprietary commercial information to ensure compliance with its obligations stated herein, but in no event, shall less than a reasonable standard of care be employed by each Party.
 
28.
PUBLIC RELEASE OF INFORMATION
         
 
Except for public releases required by regulatory or governmental authorities, within a reasonable time prior to the issuance by either Party of news releases, articles, brochures, advertisements, prepared speeches and other information releases concerning the work performed hereunder, the issuing Party shall obtain the written approval of the other Party concerning the content and timing of such releases. Neither Party's approval will be unreasonably delayed or denied.
 
29.
NOTICES AND REPORTS, AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES
         
 
29.1
 
Notices
 
All notices and reports to be provided to Customer or Contractor under this Contract shall be in writing, in English, and sent to Customer or Contractor at the following addresses (or to such other address as each Party may give the other by notice to the other in accordance with this 29):
:
Customer
RAINBOW DBS COMPANY LLC
200 Jericho Quadrangle
Jericho, New York 11753
USA
 
Attention:  ***
Telephone No.:
Fax No:
Email:
 
With a copy to:
 
Attention:  ***
Telephone No.:
Fax No:
Email:
 
Contractor:
Lockheed Martin Commercial Space Systems
100 Campus Drive
Newtown, Pennsylvania 18940
 
Attention:  ***
Telephone No.:
Fax No:
Email:
 
With a copy to:
 
Attention:  ***
Telephone No.:
Email:
 
29.2
 
Authorized Representatives
 
For purposes of binding each Party under provisions of this Contract, the "Authorized Representative" of Customer shall be ***, and the Authorized Representative of Contractor shall be ***, each of whom shall have the authority to bind the Party they represent. Each Party may change or add to its list of Authorized Representatives by giving notice to the other Party (signed by the notifying Party's then-
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
current Authorized Representative or Chief Executive Officer (or equivalent)) pursuant to the Contract notice provisions above.
 
30.
CUSTOMER FURNISHED INFORMATION AND PROPERTY
         
 
Contractor agrees, with respect to all Information and property, including but not limited to equipment (including ground equipment), models and devices, furnished by Customer under this Contract:
 
30.1
 
Title
 
That title to such Information and property shall remain exclusively in Customer.
 
30.2
  Risk of Loss
 
To assume all risk of loss or damage, reasonable wear and tear excepted, to such Information and property while in Contractor's or any Subcontractor's possession or control.
 
30.3
  Use
 
To ensure that such Information and property are used solely in the performance of the Contract.
 
30.4
  Taxes
 
To the extent that any property is required for Contractor's completion of its obligations under the Statement of Work to be responsible for payment of all taxes which become due by reason of Contractor's or any Subcontractor's possession, control or use of such Information and property, and to comply with all requirements of said laws, including making payment of any interest or penalties related to or arising from such taxes.
 
30.5
  Encumbrances
 
To ensure that no lien, encumbrance, pledge or other interest whatsoever attaches to such Information and property as a result of Contractor's or any Subcontractor's acts or omissions.
 
30.6
  Return Transportation
 
Except as may otherwise be provided in this Contract to return Information and property sent to Contractor as required for Contractor's completion of its obligations under the Statement of Work upon completion of all Work or termination of this Contract. If Customer requests any additional Information or property to be sent or returned, Customer shall bear any costs related to the transportation and associated insurance to Contractor's facilities and back to Customer.
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text. Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
        
30.7
 
Damages
 
That in no event will Customer be liable for special, indirect or consequential damages related to such Information and property or arising from the use thereof.
 
31.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IDENTIFICATION AND MATERIAL SAFETY DATA
         
 
Contractor shall comply with applicable laws, codes, ordinances, and regulations (including the obtaining of licenses and permits) in connection with any hazardous material used during Launch processing. Contractor agrees to provide the right to use and disclose such data relating to hazardous materials as necessary to comply with this Article.
 
32.
APPLICABLE LAWS
         
 
This Contract shall be interpreted, construed and governed by the substantive laws of New York, USA, without regard to procedural laws, and except to the extent that the conflicts of laws rules of New York, USA would require the application of the laws of another jurisdiction. The Parties acknowledge and agree that the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods shall not apply to the transactions contemplated in this Contract.
 
33.
GENERAL
         
 
 
33.1
Severability
 
If any provision of this Contract is declared or found to be illegal, unenforceable or void, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to agree upon a substitute provision that is legal and enforceable and as nearly as possible consistent with the intentions underlying the original provision. If the remainder of this Contract is not materially affected by such declaration or finding and is capable of substantial performance, then the remainder shall be enforced to the extent permitted by law.
 
33.2
 
Cumulative Rights/Waivers
 
All rights and remedies conferred hereunder or otherwise shall be cumulative and may be exercised singly or concurrently. No delay or omission by either Party to exercise any right or power shall impair such right or power or be construed to be a waiver thereof. No payment of money by any person or entity shall be construed as a waiver of any right or power under this Contract. A waiver by any Party of any of the covenants, conditions or contracts to be performed by the other or any breach thereof shall not be construed to be a waiver of any succeeding breach thereof or of any other covenants, conditions or contracts herein contained. No change, waiver or discharge hereof shall be valid unless in writing and signed by the Authorized Representative of the Party against which such change, waiver or discharge is sought to be enforced.
33.3
  Gender/Captions
 
As used herein, the singular shall include the plural and the plural may refer only to the singular. The use of any gender shall be applicable to all genders. The captions contained herein are for purposes of convenience only and are not a part of this Contract.
 
33.4
  Relationship of the Parties
 
It is expressly understood that Contractor, on the one hand, and Customer, on the other hand, intend by this Contract to establish the relationship of independent contractors and do not intend to undertake the relationship of principal and agent or to create a joint venture or partnership between them or their respective successors in interest. Neither Contractor, on the one hand, nor Customer, on the other hand, shall have any authority to create or assume in the name or on behalf of the other Party any obligation, expressed or implied, nor to act or purport to act as the agent or the legally empowered representative of the other Party hereto for any purpose whatsoever.
 
33.5
  Permitted Access to Work in Progress, Inspections, Etc.
 
At any time Customer and its employees, agents, subcontractors, consultants and representatives are on the premises of Contractor or any of its Subcontractors pursuant to any provision of this Contract, they agree to abide by the applicable security and safety regulations, provided that reasonable notice of any such regulations is provided by Contractor or Subcontractor, as applicable. As much as reasonably possible, any such inspections, monitoring or other access to premises permitted under this Contract shall be made without interference with the ongoing work of Contractor or Subcontractor, as applicable.
 
33.6
 Construction
 
This Contract and the Attachments and Schedules hereto, have been drafted jointly by the Parties and in the event of any ambiguity in the language hereof, there shall be no inference drawn in favor of or against either Party.
 
33.7
  Including
 
Whenever the terms "including" or "include" are used in this Contract in connection with a single item or a list of items within a particular classification (whether or not the term is followed by the phrase "but not limited to" or words of similar effect) that reference shall be interpreted to be illustrative only, and shall not be interpreted as a limitation on, or an exclusive enumeration of the items within that classification.
 
33.8
  Survival
 
Termination or expiration of this Contract for any reasons shall not release either Party from any liabilities or obligations set forth in this Contract which remain to be performed or by their nature would be intended to be applicable following any such termination or expiration.
33.9
  Entire Agreement
 
This Contract: (i) consists of this document and the referenced Attachments in 2 of this Contract and the schedules attached thereto; (ii) constitutes the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof; and (iii) supersedes all prior correspondence, representations, proposals, negotiations, understandings, and agreements of the Parties, oral or written, with respect to the subject matter hereof. No addition to, deletion of, or deviation from the provisions of this Contract shall be binding against Customer unless in writing and signed by an Authorized Representative of Customer or against Contractor unless in writing and signed by an Authorized Representative of Contractor.
 
33.10
 Counterparts
 
  This Contract may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and all such counterparts shall constitute but one and the same instrument.
Execution.
 
  Each Party acknowledges that it has read, understands and agrees to be bound by the provisions of this Contract.
Agreement.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this Contract.
 
ATTACHMENT 1
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 2
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 3
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 4
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 5
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 6
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 7
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 8
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 9
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 10
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 11
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 12
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 13
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 14
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 15
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           
ATTACHMENT 16
 
 
***
Certain confidential portions of this exhibit were omitted by means of redacting a portion of the text.  Copies of the exhibit containing the redacted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
           

Exhibit 10.56.1
 
05-RainbowKa-LM-004
 
June 1, 2005
 
Mr. Wilt Hildenbrand
Rainbow DBS Company LLC
200 Jericho Quadrangle
Jericho, NY  11753
 
Subject:  Rainbow Ka-Band Contract dated November 21, 2004, Contract No. 11182004 ("Contract")
 
Dear Mr. Hildenbrand:
 
Letter Hyman to Hildenbrand dated May 28, 2005, Subject: Maximum Termination Liability Schedule
Reference:
               
 
1. Pursuant to the request from Rainbow DBS Company LLC ("Rainbow"), and the agreement between Lockheed Martin Commercial Space Systems ("LMCSS") and Rainbow, by Rainbow concurring to this Letter, the cumulative Maximum Termination Liability schedule for Ka-1, Ka-2, Ka-3, Ka-4 and Ka-5 in Attachment 8 to the Contract will remain at the level set forth in the fourth month after EDC (March 2005) through the Restart Date, as defined below.  Capitalized terms not defined in this Letter agreement shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Contract.
 
2. Nothing in this Letter agreement is intended nor should it be construed to modify Rainbow's payment obligations in the ordinary course for services specified in the invoice dated April 21, 2005, which payment is currently due and owing.  However, in accordance with the Contract, payments made by Rainbow for services rendered and specified in the April 21, 2005 invoice would be refunded in the event of a Contract termination for convenience made prior to the establishment of a Restart Date.
 
3. Effective June 1, 2005, (i) all work by LMCSS under the Contract has been suspended, other than non-recurring work which may be mutually agreed to by the Parties (such non-recurring work will not result in any further payment obligation beyond the April 21, 2005 invoice payment or increase in the Maximum Termination Liability as capped herein)  and (ii) all future payments by Rainbow under the Contract have been suspended (other than the payment obligations under Paragraphs 1 and 2 above).
 
4.  Rainbow, with assistance and support from LMCSS, shall immediately begin to re-assess its Ka-band satellite program, scope, number of satellites, orbital locations and technical design and, on or before November 21, 2005, Rainbow shall either (i) terminate the Contract under Article 17, (ii) notify LMCSS to proceed with the work as originally contemplated under the Contract, or (iii) notify LMCSS of the particulars of a revised Ka-band program to be implemented under the Contract.  Upon receipt of a notice under clause (ii) or (iii) above, LMCSS shall process a Contract Change Notice, and Rainbow shall either accept or reject the Contract Change Notice in accordance with the Contract.  If Rainbow accepts the Contract Change Notice (including any modifications as may be agreed by the Parties), LMCSS shall restart the program, as amended by the agreed upon Contract Change Notice, upon the date of Rainbow's acceptance thereof ("Restart Date"), and the Contract shall be modified to reflect the changes mutually agreed in accordance with the Contract Change Notice.  If Rainbow rejects the Contract Change Notice, the Contract shall be terminated in accordance with Article 17, and such termination shall be deemed to have occurred prior to the establishment of a Restart Date.  Upon termination under and in accordance
with Article 17, LMCSS shall promptly refund to Rainbow all amounts paid by Rainbow under the Contract in excess of termination charges, which termination charges shall not exceed the Maximum Termination Liability set forth in Paragraph 1 hereof.
 
5. The Parties acknowledge that, because of the suspension of work under Paragraph 3 above, LMCSS is not bound by the Promised Delivery Dates currently set forth in Article 3 of the subject Contract.  Moreover, Rainbow's right to terminate the Contract for cause under Paragraph 18.1(f) shall not be triggered by LMCSS's failure to complete the FCC milestones by the dates currently specified by the FCC as a result of the suspension of the work under Paragraph 3 above.  As part of any Contract Change Notice issued under Paragraph 3 above, LMCSS shall specify (i) any necessary changes in the Promised Delivery Dates and (ii) the dates by which it will be able to meet the FCC milestones, taking into account the number of Days that work was suspended, the scope of the Contract change and LMCSS's normal and customary practices.
 
6. This Letter agreement supercedes all prior discussions and understandings of the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.
 
As always, if you have any questions or comments, please do not hesitate to contact me.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 12.1
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Selected Financial Data
 
The operating and balance sheet data included in the following selected financial data have been derived from the consolidated financial statements of Cablevision and CSC Holdings.  Acquisitions made by these companies were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, the acquisition costs were allocated to the net assets acquired based on their fair value, except for assets previously owned by Charles F. Dolan or affiliates of Mr. Dolan which were recorded at historical cost.  Acquisitions are reflected in operating, balance sheet and statistical data from the time of acquisition.  The operating and balance sheet data below has been amended to reclassify the transactions discussed in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented.  The selected financial data presented below should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of Cablevision and CSC Holdings and the notes thereto included in Exhibit 99.3 of this Report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
This Form 8-K contains statements that constitute forward looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including restructuring charges, availability under credit facilities, levels of capital expenditures, sources of funds and funding requirements, among others.  Investors are cautioned that such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties and that actual results or developments may differ materially from the forward looking statements as a result of various factors.  Factors that may cause such differences to occur include but are not limited to:
 
the level of our revenues;
 - 
                 
 
video and high-speed data subscriber demand and growth;
 - 
                 
 
demand for and growth of our digital cable, high-speed data and VoIP services, which are impacted by competition from other services and the other factors set forth below;
 - 
                 
 
the cost of programming and industry conditions;
 - 
                 
 
the regulatory environment in which we operate;
 - 
                 
 
developments in the government investigations relating to improper expense recognition;
 - 
                 
 
the outcome of litigation and other proceedings, including the matters described under "Legal Matters";
 - 
                 
 
general economic conditions in the areas in which we operate;
 - 
                 
 
demand for advertising time and space;
 - 
                 
 
our ability to obtain programming for our programming business and maintain and renew affiliation agreements for those businesses;
 - 
                 
 
the level of capital expenditures;
 - 
                 
 
the level of our expenses;
 - 
                 
 
pending and future acquisitions and dispositions of assets, including the sale of Rainbow 1 to a subsidiary of EchoStar;
 - 
                 
 
the demand for our VOOM 21 high definition programming among other cable television and satellite providers;
 - 
                 
 
market demand for new services;
 - 
                 
 
whether any pending uncompleted transactions, are completed on the terms and at the times set forth (if at all);
 - 
                 
 
the level of exit costs we will incur in shutting down the Rainbow DBS distribution business;
 - 
                 
 
competition from existing competitors and new competitors entering our franchise areas;
 - 
                 
 
other risks and uncertainties inherent in the cable television business, the programming and entertainment businesses and our other businesses;
 - 
                 
 
financial community and rating agency perceptions of our business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which we operate; and
 - 
                 
 
the factors described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained therein.
 - 
                 
 
We disclaim any obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements contained herein, except as otherwise required by applicable federal securities laws.
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
Summary
 
Our future performance is dependent, to a large extent, on general economic conditions including capital market characteristics, the effectiveness of direct competition, our ability to manage our businesses effectively, and our relative strength and leverage in the marketplace, both with suppliers and customers.
 
Telecommunications
 
In our Telecommunications segment we derive revenues principally through monthly payments by subscribers to our video, high-speed data and voice services.  These monthly payments include charges for cable television programming, as well as, in many cases, equipment rental, pay-per-view and video on demand charges, high-speed data and payments for VoIP services.  Revenue increases are derived from increases in the number of subscribers to these services, upgrades by video customers in the level of programming package to which they subscribe and additional services sold to our existing subscribers.  We also derive revenues from the sale of advertising time available to cable television systems.  Revenues from advertising vary based upon the number and demographics of our subscribers who view the programming carried on our cable television systems.
 
By far the most serious challenge we face in our provision of cable television video services, which accounted for 48% of our consolidated revenues in 2004, comes from competition from the direct broadcast satellite business.  There are two major providers of DBS service in the United States, each with significantly higher numbers of subscribers than we have.  We intend to compete with these DBS competitors by "bundling" our service offerings with products that the DBS companies cannot efficiently provide at this time, such as high-speed data service and VoIP service carried over the cable distribution plant, as well as by providing "on demand" services that are currently unavailable to a DBS subscriber.
 
Our high-speed data services business, which accounted for 12% of our consolidated revenues in 2004, faces competition from DSL providers.  These providers have become increasingly aggressive in their pricing strategies in recent years, and customers may decide that a reduced price is more important to them than the superior speed that cable modems provide.  In addition, with 46% of our basic subscribers now subscribing to our high-speed data service, opportunities to expand that base at the current pace may be limited.  The recent gains in cable modem penetration may therefore not be indicative of the results we achieve in the future.
 
Our consumer VoIP offering is competitive with incumbent offerings primarily on the basis of pricing, where unlimited United States and Canada long distance, regional and local calling, together with certain features for which the incumbent providers charge extra, are offered at one low price.  To the extent the incumbents, who have financial resources that exceed those of the Company, decide to meet our pricing and/or features or reduce their pricing, future growth and success of this business may be impaired.  The regulatory framework for cable modem service and VoIP service is being developed and differing regulatory alternatives will be considered, including increased regulation, which may affect our competitive position.
 
Lightpath, our commercial telephone and broadband business, operates in the most competitive business telecommunications market in the country and competes against the very largest telecommunications companies  both incumbent local exchange companies, other competitive local exchange companies and long distance companies.  To the extent that dominant market leaders decide to reduce their prices, future success of the Company may be impaired.  The trend in business communications has been shifting from
a wired voice medium to a wireless, data medium.  Should this trend accelerate dramatically, future growth of Lightpath may be impaired.
 
, the telephone companies may find technological or other solutions to upgrade their service offering, providing additional competition for our video, data and voice service offerings.
In addition
 
Rainbow
 
consolidated 2004 revenues, we earn revenues in two principal ways.  First, we receive affiliate fee payments from operators of cable television systems and direct broadcast satellite operators.  These revenues are earned under multi-year affiliation agreements with those companies.  The specific affiliate fees we earn vary from operator to operator and also vary among our networks.  The second principal source of revenues in this segment is from advertising.  Under our agreements with cable and satellite operators we have the right to sell a specific amount of advertising time on our programs.  Our advertising revenues are more variable than affiliate fees.  This is because most of our advertising is sold on a short-term basis, not under long-term contracts.  Also our advertising revenues vary based upon the popularity of our programming as measured by rating services.
In our Rainbow segment, which accounted for 19% of our
 
We seek to grow our revenues in the Rainbow segment by increasing the number of cable systems and satellite providers that carry our services and the number of subscribers to cable systems and satellite services that receive our programming.  We refer to this as our "penetration."  AMC, which is widely distributed, has less ability to increase its penetration than newer, less penetrated services.  We may be subject to requests by distributors to make upfront payments in exchange for these additional subscribers or to waive or accept lower subscriber fees if certain numbers of additional subscribers are provided. We also may help fund the distributors' efforts to market our channels or we may permit distributors to offer limited promotional periods without payment of subscriber fees.  As we continue our efforts to add subscribers, our subscriber revenue may be negatively affected by subscriber acquisition fee expenses, discounted subscriber fees and other payments; however, we believe that these transactions generate a positive return on investment over the contract period.  We seek to increase our advertising revenues through intensified marketing and by airing an increased number of minutes of national advertising but, ultimately, the level of our advertising revenues are directly related to the penetration of our services and the popularity (including within desirable demographic groups) of our services as measured by rating services.
 
The principal goals in this segment are to increase our affiliation fee revenues and our advertising revenues by increasing penetration of our national services.  To do this we must continue to contract for and produce high-quality, attractive programming.  Our greatest challenge arises from the increasing concentration of subscribers in the hands of a few cable television operators and satellite providers.  This increased concentration increases the power of those operators and providers and could adversely affect our ability to increase the penetration of our services or even result in decreased penetration.  In addition, this concentration gives those distributors greater leverage in negotiating the pricing and other terms of affiliation agreements.  Moreover, as a result of this concentration the potential impact of a loss of any one of our major affiliate relationships would be more significant.
 
In December 2003, Regional Programming Partners completed the acquisition of the 50% interests in Fox Sports Net Bay Area and Fox Sports Net Chicago that it did not already own in a transaction that was accounted for as a purchase.  As a result, as of December 18, 2003, we began consolidating the results of Fox Sports Net Bay Area and Fox Sports Net Chicago.  The consolidation increased the revenues and expenses in our Rainbow segment in 2004, although the amount of revenues that the Rainbow segment will receive from Fox Sports Net Chicago will decline in future periods as a result of the termination by two of its significant customers that declined to carry Fox Sports Net Chicago without these distribution rights agreements.
In February 2005, the Company announced it was restructuring its Regional Programming Partnership with various subsidiaries of News Corporation.  Upon closing of the transaction in April 2005, the Company owns 100% of Madison Square Garden and no longer owns interests in Fox Sports Ohio, Fox Sports Florida, National Sports Partners or National Advertising Partners.  The Company also owns 100% of Fox Sports Net Chicago as well as 50% of Fox Sports Net New England.  In addition, the $150 million promissory notes payable to News Corporation were contributed by News Corporation to Regional Programming Partnership for no additional consideration and were cancelled without any payment being made on them.
 
As a result, the Company no longer consolidates the operating results or the assets and liabilities of Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida.  The net revenues and operating income (excluding intercompany eliminations) of Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida for the year ended December 31, 2004 aggregated approximately $172.4 million and $55.7 million, respectively.  The operating results of these businesses include certain allocations of general and administrative costs from the Company that may not be eliminated upon the sale of these businesses and certain other intercompany related transactions which currently eliminate in our consolidated financial statements.  The amount of cash on hand at Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida as of December 31, 2004 totaled $95 million and these entities had no indebtedness.  Upon closing of the transaction, Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida will be transferred with their respective cash on hand and such cash will no longer be consolidated on our balance sheet.
 
Madison Square Garden
 
We derive revenues in this segment primarily from the sale of tickets, including luxury box rentals, to sporting and entertainment events, from rental rights fees paid to this segment by promoters that present events at our entertainment venues and the sports teams' share of league-wide distributions of national television rights fees and royalties.  We also derive revenue from the sale of advertising at the entertainment venues, from food, beverage and merchandise sales at the venues and from the licensing of our trademarks.  MSG Networks derives its revenues from affiliate fees paid by cable television and satellite providers, sales of advertising, and from rights fees paid to this segment by broadcasters and programming services that telecast events of sports teams which are under contract with MSG Networks.  MSG Networks carries Knicks and Ranger games, so that, like the rest of this segment, its performance is related to the performance of the teams.  All of these revenues are ultimately dependent upon the quality of our sporting and entertainment events.
Madison Square Garden, which accounted for 16% of our consolidated 2004 revenues, consists of professional sports teams (principally the New York Knicks of the NBA and the New York Rangers of the NHL and the New York Liberty of the Womens National Basketball Association), the MSG Networks sports programming business, and an entertainment business, which operates the Madison Square Garden arena, Radio City Music Hall, the Hartford Civic Center and Rentschler Field (entertainment venues), and faces competitive challenges unique to these activities. 
 
Madison Square Garden's short-term agreement with an affiliate expired on March 7, 2005 and this affiliate has discontinued carriage of Madison Square Garden's networks.  We believe we will ultimately reach contractual terms with this affiliate for carriage of MSG Networks.  However, we can give no assurance as to when an agreement will be reached and therefore cannot determine the extent to which our 2005 operating results will be negatively impacted.  If an agreement is not reached in 2005, the negative impact to Madison Square Garden's operating results could be significant, but the impact would not be material to the Company's consolidated operating results.
 
Our sports teams' financial success is dependent on their ability to generate advertising sales, paid attendance, luxury box rentals, and food, beverage and merchandise sales.  To a large extent, the ability of the team to build excitement among fans and therefore produce higher revenue streams, depends on the teams' winning performance, which generates regular season and playoff attendance, and which supports
increases in prices charged for tickets, luxury box rentals, and advertising placement.  Each team's success is dependent on its ability to acquire highly competitive personnel.  The governing bodies of the NBA and the NHL have the power and authority to take certain actions that they deem to be in the best interest of their respective leagues, which may not necessarily be consistent with maximizing this segment's results of operations.
 
Effective September 16, 2004 the National Hockey League ("NHL") commenced a lockout of the players in support of its attempt to reach a new collective bargaining agreement with the National Hockey League Players Association. The parties failed to reach an agreement after several negotiating sessions and on February 16, 2005, the NHL announced that it had cancelled the 2004/2005 season.  We can give no assurance as to when the labor dispute will be resolved and therefore cannot determine the extent to which our 2005 operating results will be negatively impacted.  However, while a continued lockout could have a significant adverse impact on Madison Square Garden's operating results, we do not believe it would have a significant adverse impact on the Company's consolidated operating results.
 
In the second quarter of 2004, the New York Mets' gave notice of termination of their broadcast rights agreement with Madison Square Garden.  The termination of the rights agreement will be effective after the 2005 baseball season.
The success of our MSG Networks sports programming business is affected by our ability to secure desired programming of a variety of professional sports teams in addition to our proprietary programming. The continued carriage and success of the teams that are telecast by us will impact our revenues from distribution and from the rates charged for affiliation and advertising. 
 
Our entertainment business is largely dependent on the continued success of our Radio City Christmas Spectacular and our touring Christmas shows, as well as availability of, and our venues' ability to attract, concerts, family shows and events.
 
Critical Accounting Policies
 
In preparing its financial statements, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that it believes are reasonable based upon the information available.  These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented.  The significant accounting policies which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following:
 
Impairment of Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets:
 
The Company's long-lived assets at December 31, 2004 include excess costs over fair value of net assets acquired ("goodwill") of approximately $1.45 billion, approximately $1.39 billion of other intangible assets and approximately $4.01 billion of property, plant and equipment.  Such assets accounted for approximately 60% of the Company's consolidated total assets.
 
On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, and was required to analyze its goodwill for impairment issues during the first six months of fiscal 2002, and then on a periodic basis thereafter.  Statement 142 requires that goodwill impairment be determined using a two-step process.  The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any.  The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.  If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized
in an amount equal to that excess.  The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be recognized in a business combination.
 
The impairment test for other indefinite-lived intangible assets consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value.  If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  For other long-lived assets, including intangibles that are amortized, the Company evaluates assets for recoverability when there is an indicator of potential impairment.  If the undiscounted cash flows from a group of assets being evaluated is less than the carrying value of that group of assets, the fair value of the asset group is determined and the carrying value of the asset group is written down to fair value.
 
In assessing the recoverability of the Company's goodwill and other long-lived assets, the Company must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets.  These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether an impairment charge is recognized and also the magnitude of any such charge.  Estimates of fair value are primarily determined using discounted cash flows and comparable market transactions. These valuations are based on estimates and assumptions including projected future cash flows, discount rate, determination of appropriate market comparables and the determination of whether a premium or discount should be applied to comparables.  For the Telecommunications Services segment, these valuations also include assumptions for average annual revenue per customer, number of homes passed, operating margin and market penetration as a percentage of homes passed, among other assumptions.  For the Madison Square Garden ("MSG") and Rainbow segments these valuations also include assumptions for projected average rates per basic and viewing subscribers, number of events (MSG segment only), access to sports programming and film rights and the cost of such programming and film rights, amount of programming time that is advertiser supported, number of advertising spots available and the sell-out rates for those spots, average fee per advertising spot, and operating margins, among other assumptions.  If these estimates or material related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record additional impairment charges related to our long-lived assets.
 
In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations of the Company's reporting units on the impairment calculation for indefinite-lived intangibles, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit.  This hypothetical decrease would have no impact on the impairment analysis for any of the Company's reporting units.
 
Rights to feature film inventory acquired under license agreements along with the related obligations are recorded at the contract value when a license agreement is executed or the license period has begun. Costs are amortized to technical and operating expense on the straight-line basis over the respective license periods. We periodically review the programming usefulness of our feature film inventory based on a series of factors, including ratings, type and quality of program material, standards and practices, and fitness for exhibition based on the programming of the individual programming service.  If we determine that substantially all of the films in a film license agreement have no future programming usefulness and will no longer be exploited, we would record a write-off for the portion of the unamortized cost of the film license agreement that was attributed to those films.
 
In 2004, the Company recorded impairment losses totaling approximately $354.8 million related to its decision to seek strategic alternatives for the Rainbow DBS segment of its operations.  The Company recorded impairment charges of $90.5 million included in depreciation and amortization expense relating to long-lived assets and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and $75.8 million included in technical and operating expenses representing the write down of certain film and programming contracts relating to its VOOM 21 high definition television programming service.  In addition, the Company recorded an impairment charge relating to the Rainbow DBS distribution business of $155.4 million reflecting the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of long-lived assets and goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and a charge of $33.1 million representing the write off of
equipment inventory and deposits which have been recorded in discontinued operations.  In addition to the Rainbow DBS segment impairment losses, we recorded impairment losses of $0.3 million, $17.9 million and $1.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, included in technical and operating expense, representing the impairment of certain film and programming contracts.  The Company also recorded an impairment loss in 2002 of $43.2 million representing the write down of software and leasehold improvements relating to the Company's retail electronics business now reported in discontinued operations.
 
Useful Lives Of Finite-Lived Intangibles Assets
 
The Company has recognized intangible assets for affiliation agreements and advertiser relationships as a result of the July 2003 repurchase of MGM's 20% interest in each of AMC, WE and IFC and the repurchase of NBC's interests in Rainbow Media Holdings in various transactions in 2001 and 2002.  The Company has determined that such intangible assets have finite lives and has estimated those lives to be 10 years for affiliation agreements and 7 to 10 years for advertiser relationships.  At December 31, 2004, the carrying values, net of accumulated amortization, were $434.6 million for affiliation agreements and $78.2 million for advertiser relationships.
 
The amount we originally allocated in purchase accounting to the affiliation agreements finite-lived intangibles in our consolidated financial statements is the estimated aggregate fair value of those affiliation agreements and the related customer relationships.  The useful lives for the affiliation agreements were determined based upon an analysis of the weighted average lives of existing agreements the Company had in place with its major customers at the time that purchase accounting was applied, plus an estimate for renewals of such agreements.  The Company has been successful in renewing its affiliation agreements and maintaining customer relationships in the past and believes it will be able to renew its major affiliation agreements and maintain those customer relationships in the futureHowever, it is possible that the Company will not successfully renew such agreements as they expire or that if it does, the net revenue earned may not equal or exceed the net revenue currently being earned, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business.  In light of these facts and circumstances, the Company has determined that an estimated useful life of 8 to 10 years is appropriate depending on the nature of the underlying intangible.
. 
 
There have been periods when an existing affiliation agreement has expired and the parties have not finalized negotiations of either a renewal of that agreement or a new agreement for certain periods of time.  In substantially all these instances, the affiliates continued to carry and pay for the service under oral or written interim agreements until execution of definitive replacement agreements or renewal.  In one case during 2004, there was a 10 day period in which an affiliate was restricted from carrying certain of the Company's sports and entertainment networks because the parties had not reached agreement on contract renewal terms.  We reached a short-term agreement with the affiliate at the end of the 10 day period and that affiliate continuously carried the networks pursuant to successive subsequent short-term agreements through March 7, 2005.  However, we were unable to reach an agreement with this affiliate at expiration on March 7, 2005, and this affiliate has discontinued carriage of certain of the Company's sports networks.  We believe we will ultimately reach contractual terms with this affiliate for carriage of such networks.  However, if we are not successful in reaching such agreement in the future, we may be required to recognize an impairment of the related affiliate and customer relationship intangibles associated with this affiliate. See "Impairment of Long-lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets" above.
 
If an affiliate were to cease carrying the service on an other than temporary basis, the Company would record an impairment charge for the then remaining carrying value of that affiliation agreement.  If the Company were to renew an affiliation agreement at rates that produced materially less net revenue compared to the net revenue produced under the  previous agreement, the Company would evaluate the impact on its cash flows and, if necessary, would further evaluate such indication of potential impairment by following the policy described above under "Impairment Of Long-Lived And Indefinite-Lived Assets"
for the asset group containing that intangible.  The Company also would evaluate whether the remaining useful life of the affiliation agreement remained appropriate.  Based on December 31, 2004 carrying values, if the estimated life of all affiliation agreements were shortened by 10%, the effect on amortization for continuing operations for the year ending December 31, 2005 would be to increase our annual amortization expense by approximately $8.1 million.
 
Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets:
 
Deferred tax assets have resulted primarily from the Company's future deductible temporary differences and net operating loss carry forwards.  In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.  The Company's ability to realize its deferred tax assets depends upon the generation of sufficient future taxable income to allow for the utilization of its net operating loss carry forwards and deductible temporary differences and tax planning strategies.  If such estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in additional income tax expense in the Company's consolidated statement of operations.  Management evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and the need for additional valuation allowances quarterly.  In 2002, the income tax benefit of the Company reflects an increase in the valuation allowance of $58.6 million.  At the end of the second quarter of 2002, NBC exchanged part of its interest in Rainbow Media Holdings for shares of the Company's common stock.  As a result of this exchange, Rainbow Media Holdings became a member of the consolidated federal income tax return of the Company.  The exchange was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.  Accordingly, the valuation allowance was reduced to zero, resulting in a reduction to the recorded goodwill, without any income statement benefit.  In 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded increases in the valuation allowance of $14.0 million and $28.0 million, respectively, relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards.
 
Plant and Equipment:
 
Costs incurred in the construction of the Company's cable television system, including line extensions to, and rebuild of, the Company's hybrid fiber-coaxial infrastructure and costs incurred in the construction of the Company's headend facilities are capitalized.  These costs consist of materials, sub-contractor labor, direct consulting fees, and internal labor and related costs associated with the construction activities.  The internal costs that are capitalized consist of salaries and benefits of Company employees and the portion of facility costs, including rent, taxes, insurance and utilities, that supports the construction activities.  Infrastructure costs are depreciated over the 12-year estimated life of the plant, and headend facilities are depreciated over the estimated life of the specific component, ranging from 4 years for certain electronics to 15 years for tower sites.  Costs of operating the plant and the technical facilities, including repairs and maintenance and call completion fees, are expensed as incurred.
 
In addition, the costs of connecting businesses or residences that have not been previously connected to the service offering are capitalized.  These costs include material, subcontractor and internal labor and related costs as discussed above.  In addition, on-site and remote technical assistance during the provisioning process for new digital product offerings are capitalized.  The departmental activities supporting the connection process are tracked through specific metrics, and the portion of departmental costs that is capitalized is determined through a time weighted activity allocation of costs incurred based on time studies used to estimate the average time spent on each activity.  New connections are amortized over 5 years or 12 years for residence wiring and feeder cable to the home, respectively.  The portion of departmental costs related to reconnection, programming service up- and down- grade, repair and maintenance, and disconnection activities are expensed as incurred.
Certain of these capitalized costs are based on estimates of activity levels and other historical statistics.  These estimates are evaluated at least semi-annually, and any changes that result, which may be significant, are reflected in the results of operations in the period in which the evaluations are performed.
 
Restructuring Charges:
 
In 2001, the Company recorded a charge to income representing the cost of restructuring its operations.  The costs included in the charge principally consisted of employee termination costs, such as severance pay and outplacement services, and provisions for lease termination costs, including an estimate of costs incurred during a projected vacancy period, estimated brokerage commissions and tenant allowances.
 
In 2002, the Company announced a new operating plan and restructuring which included the closing of 26 retail electronics store locations, the consolidation of customer service call centers and the elimination of certain staff positions.  Additionally, in connection with the new operating plan, the Company reached an agreement with its supplier of set top boxes which reduced the Company's purchase commitments for set top boxes from $378.5 million in 2002, $378.5 million in 2003, and $567.8 million in 2004 to a total remaining commitment of $87.5 million in 2002 and nothing thereafter and required the Company to make certain other cash payments aggregating $50.0 million plus interest on a portion of such amount with respect to, among other things, a license for certain software (valued at $17.5 million based on an independent appraisal). In connection with this plan, the Company recorded restructuring charges, which included employee termination costs, such as severance pay and outplacement services costs, and provisions for lease termination costs including an estimate of costs incurred during a projected vacancy period, estimated brokerage commissions and tenant allowances and other related costs and the cost associated with the reduction in required digital set top box commitments.
 
 
In 2003, the Company eliminated certain staff positions primarily at Madison Square Garden and in the Telecommunications Services segment and incurred severance costs aggregating approximately $6.1 million.
 
In 2004, the Company recorded restructuring charges aggregating $5.7 million associated with the elimination of certain positions in various business units of the Company.
 
Costs related to employee terminations are estimated on an individual by individual basis, giving effect to the announced severance plan.  Costs for lease terminations are projected in consultation with real estate professionals.  Actual lease termination costs may differ from these estimates as a result of changes in market conditions.  Because these costs are based on estimates and projections, they can prove to be inaccurate.
 
Changes in estimates, as the plan is implemented and additional facts are gathered, are reflected in current operations as adjustments to the restructuring charges, separately reported and identified.
Certain Transactions
 
The following transactions occurred during the periods covered by this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
 
  In 2004, Rainbow DBS invested approximately $85.0 million in exchange for a substantial interest in an entity that had acquired licenses from the FCC to provide multichannel video distribution and data service in 46 metropolitan areas in the United States.
2004 Transactions.
 
In July 2004, Northcoast Communications, a 49.9% owned subsidiary of the Company, completed its sale of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cleveland PCS, to an unaffiliated entity.  The Company did not record any gain or loss in connection with the sale.
 
  In March 2003, the Company transferred the stock of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cablevision Electronics Investments, Inc. to GBO Electronics Acquisition, LLC.
2003 Transactions.
 
In May 2003, Northcoast Communications completed its sale of PCS licenses to Verizon Wireless for approximately $763.0 million in cash.  Of the proceeds, approximately $51.0 million was used by Northcoast Communications to retire debt.  The remaining proceeds, after payment of expenses, were distributed to the partners of Northcoast Communications, including the Company.
 
In July 2003, the Company repurchased MGM's 20% interest in each of AMC, The Independent Film Channel and WE: Women's Entertainment for $500 million.
 
In December 2003, Regional Programming Partners acquired News Corporation's 50% interest in each of Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area pursuant to News Corporation's exercise of its contractual put right for $150 million.
 
  In December 2002, we acquired the 17.2% interest in Rainbow Media Holdings held by National Broadcasting Company, Inc. ("NBC") in connection with the sale of Rainbow Media Holdings' 80% interest in the Bravo programming service for $1.0 billion, payable in General Electric common stock and 53.2 million shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock (31.4 million shares of which were issuable upon the conversion of shares of Rainbow Media Holdings common stock held by NBC).
2002 Transactions.
 
In December 2002, NBC acquired MGM's 20% interest in the Bravo programming service and in July 2003, the Company repurchased, for $500 million, MGM's 20% interest in AMC, The Independent Film Channel and WE.
 
In March 2002, Rainbow Media Holdings acquired Loral Space and Communications' 50% interest in Rainbow DBS (formerly R/L DBS Company LLC), increasing Rainbow Media Holdings' ownership of Rainbow DBS to 100%.
 
Results of Operations - Cablevision Systems Corporation
 
The following table sets forth on a historical basis certain items related to operations as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated.
 
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA
 
 
Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2004 Versus Year Ended December 31, 2003
 
for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $726.8 million (18%) as compared to revenues for the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
 
 
include primarily:
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization (including impairments))
 
cable programming costs which are costs paid to programmers, net of amortization of any launch support received, for cable content and are generally paid on a per-subscriber basis;
 - 
                 
 
network management and field service costs which represent costs associated with the maintenance of our broadband network, including costs of certain customer connections;
 - 
                 
 
contractual rights payments to broadcast certain live sporting events and contractual payments pursuant to employment agreements with professional sports teams personnel;
 - 
                 
 
programming and production costs of our Rainbow businesses; and
 - 
                 
 
interconnection, call completion and circuit fees relating to our telephone and VoIP businesses.
 - 
                 
 
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization (including impairments)) for 2004 increased $398.1 million (21%) compared to 2003.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
 
 
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased 2% during 2004 as compared to 2003.
 
include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs, costs of facilities and costs of customer call centers. Selling, general and
Selling, general and administrative expenses
administrative expenses increased $109.1 million (10%) for 2004 as compared to 2003.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
 
 
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 2% in 2004 compared to 2003, including and excluding the effects of the stock plan.
 
of $95.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 includes a $54.0 million cash payment received in connection with the New York Mets' notice of termination of the broadcast rights agreement with Madison Square Garden which will be effective after the 2005 baseball season and a $41.8 million reversal of a purchase accounting liability related to this broadcast rights agreement.  Other operating income of $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from the sale of trade accounts receivable from Adelphia Communications for which a reserve had previously been recorded.
Other operating income
 
amounted to $0.2 million in 2004 and $10.7 million in 2003.  The 2004 amount is comprised of $5.9 million of severance costs, partially offset by a $5.7 million credit resulting from changes in estimates of facility realignment and other costs relating to the 2001, 2002 and 2003 restructuring plans.  The 2003 amount is comprised of $4.6 million in facility realignment costs relating to the 2001 restructuring and $6.1 million of new provisions associated with the elimination of positions, including severance, outplacement costs and other related costs relating to the 2003 restructuring.
Restructuring charges
 
increased $95.1 million (9%) for 2004 as compared to 2003.  The increase resulted primarily from impairment charges of $78.5 million relating to certain Rainbow DBS assets that are not held for sale and $12.0 million related to certain assets of the VOOM 21 channels.  The remaining increase of $4.6 million resulted from depreciation of new plant assets and amortization of acquired intangibles, partially offset by lower write-off and disposal costs of certain fixed assets.
Depreciation and amortization (including impairments)
 
increased $107.7 million (18%) during 2004 compared to 2003.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Net interest expense
 
amounted to $13.0 million in 2004 compared to equity in net income of affiliates of $429.7 million in 2003.  Such amounts consist of the Company's share of the net income or loss of certain businesses in which the Company has varying minority ownership interests.  The amount for the year ended December 31, 2003 includes $434.6 million representing our equity in the net income of Northcoast Communications, LLC, which resulted primarily from the gain related to Northcoast Communications' sale of its personal communication service licenses to Verizon Wireless.
Equity in net loss of affiliates
 
consisted of a gain of $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to a loss of $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.  The 2004 gain resulted from the sale of a minority-owned affiliate interest. The 2003 loss resulted from the contemplated settlement of working capital adjustments associated with the Company's sale of cable systems to AT&T in 2001.
Gain (loss) on sale of cable assets and programming and affiliate interests
 
for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 consists of the following:
Gain (loss) on investments, net
 
 
The effects of these gains and losses are largely offset by the losses and gains on related derivative contracts described below.
 
of $19.0 million in 2004 consisted of costs written off in connection with the redemption of CSC Holdings' Series H and Series M Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock and CSC Holdings' 9-7/8% senior subordinated debentures aggregating $5.1 million and termination of certain of the Company's credit agreements aggregating $13.9 million.  The 2003 amount of $0.4 million resulted from costs written-off relating to the termination of certain of the Company's credit agreements.
Write-off of deferred financing costs
 
for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 consists of the following:
Gain (loss) on derivative contracts, net
 
 
of $78.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 represents premiums of $58.2 million on the early redemption of CSC Holdings' Series H and Series M Redeemable Preferred Stock, $14.3 million on the early redemption of CSC Holdings' 9-7/8% senior subordinated debentures, and $6.1 million on the termination of the AT&T Wireless stock monetization contracts.
Loss on extinguishment of debt
represent other parties' shares of the net income (losses) of entities which are not entirely owned by us but which are consolidated in our financial statements.  For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 minority interests consists of the following:
Minority interests
 
 
Beginning July 1, 2003, these dividend requirements are recorded as interest expense.
*
                            
 
of $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted primarily from dividends received on certain of the Company's investment securities, partially offset by other miscellaneous expenses.
Net miscellaneous income
 
attributable to continuing operations of $194.8 million in 2004 resulted primarily from the pretax loss, offset by an increase in the valuation allowance of $14.0 million, non-deductible preferred stock dividends, a non-deductible adjustment related to the exchange right and put option related to the Series A Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings, a non-deductible redemption premium related to the Series H and M Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings, state taxes, and an adjustment to the deferred tax rate.  The income tax expense attributable to continuing operations of $26.4 million in 2003 resulted from the pretax loss, offset by an increase in the valuation allowance of $28.0 million, non-deductible preferred stock dividends, a non-deductible adjustment related to the exchange right and put option related to the Series A Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings, state taxes, and an adjustment to the deferred tax rate.
Income tax benefit
 
for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 reflects the following items, net of related income taxes and minority interests:
Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes
 
 
See Note 23 of the Company's consolidated financial statements included in Exhibit 99.3.
 
of $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted from Rainbow DBS's investment in DTV Norwich, LLC and represents the excess of the purchase price over fair market value of the acquired assets.
Extraordinary loss, net of taxes
Business Segments Results  Cablevision Systems Corporation
 
The Company classifies its business interests into three segments:
 
Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of our consumer video, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol and Lightpath's commercial data and voice services operations;
 - 
                 
 
Rainbow, consisting principally of interests in national and regional cable television programming networks including the VOOM 21 high definition channels; and
 - 
                 
 
Madison Square Garden, which owns and operates professional sports teams, regional cable television networks and an entertainment business.
 - 
                 
 
The Company allocates certain costs to each segment based upon their proportionate estimated usage of services.  The financial information for the segments does not include inter-segment eliminations.
 
Telecommunications Services
 
The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenue for the Company's Telecommunications Services segment.
 
 
for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $408.7 million (15%) as compared to revenues for the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
 
 
for 2004 increased $190.2 million (18%) compared to 2003.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization)
 
 
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased 1% during 2004 as compared to 2003.
 
increased $31.8 million (5%) for 2004 as compared to 2003.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
 
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 2% in 2004 as compared to 2003.  Excluding the effects of the stock plan, as a percentage of revenues such costs decreased 1% in 2004 as compared to 2003.
 
amounted to $0.7 million in 2004 and $2.9 million in 2003.  The 2004 amount is comprised of $0.8 million of new provisions associated with the elimination of positions, including severance and outplacement costs, partially offset by a credit of $0.1 million in facility realignment costs relating to the 2002 restructuring.
Restructuring charges
 
The 2003 amount is comprised of $3.4 million of new provisions associated with the elimination of positions, including severance, outplacement costs and other related costs relating to the 2003 and 2002 restructurings, partially offset by a credit of $0.5 million in facility realignment costs relating to the 2001 restructuring.
 
increased $5.8 million (1%) for 2004 as compared to 2003.  The net increase resulted primarily from depreciation of new subscriber devices, headend upgrades and new plant assets, partly offset by a decrease in the write-off and disposal costs of certain fixed assets.
Depreciation and amortization expense
Rainbow
 
The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues for the Company's Rainbow segment.
 
 
for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $313.5 million (51%) as compared to revenues for the prior year.  Approximately $202.3 million of the increase was due to the acquisition of the remaining interests in Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area in December 2003.  Approximately $52.8 million of the increase was due primarily to higher advertising revenue, approximately $38.4 million was attributed primarily to growth in programming network subscribers and rate increases, and the remaining increase of $20.0 million was from film distribution and other revenue sources.
Revenues, net
 
for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $221.9 (79%) compared to 2003.  The net increase was comprised of an increase of $112.3 million resulting from the acquisition of the remaining interests in Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area in December 2003, an increase of $117.3 million relating to our VOOM 21 channels (including impairment charges of $75.8 million) and $10.2 million due primarily to higher programming and contractual costs, partially offset by a charge in 2003 of $17.9 million relating to the write-down of certain film and programming contracts.  As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased 8% during 2004 as compared to 2003.
Technical and operating expenses
 
increased $45.4 million (16%) for 2004 compared to 2003.  Approximately $24.6 million of the increase resulted from the acquisition of the remaining interests in Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area in December 2003.  The remaining increase consisted of an increase of $10.6 million in sales, marketing and advertising costs, and a $12.1 million increase in administrative costs, relating primarily to the VOOM 21 channels, partially offset by a decrease of $1.9 million in charges related to a stock plan and a long-term incentive plan.  As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 11% in 2004 compared to 2003 including and excluding the effects of the stock plan.
Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
of $4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from the sale of trade accounts receivable from Adelphia Communications for which a reserve had previously been recorded.
Other operating income
 
of $0.9 million in 2004 related primarily to expenses associated with the elimination of positions at Fox Sports Net Chicago, including severance, outplacement costs and other related costs.
Restructuring charges
increased $121.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 when compared to 2003.  The increase resulted primarily from impairment charges of $78.5 million relating to Rainbow DBS assets that are not held for sale and $12.0 million relating to assets of the VOOM 21 channels.  An increase of approximately $23.7 million resulted from the amortization of acquired intangibles and approximately $7.4 million resulted from the depreciation of new fixed assets.
Depreciation and amortization expense
 
Madison Square Garden
 
The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenue for Madison Square Garden.
 
 
for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $6.8 million (1%), as compared to revenues for the prior year.  This net increase is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
 
 
Madison Square Garden's short-term agreement with an affiliate expired on March 7, 2005 and this affiliate has discontinued carriage of Madison Square Garden's networks.  We believe we will ultimately reach contractual terms with this affiliate for carriage of MSG Networks.  However, we can give no assurance as to when an agreement will be reached and therefore cannot determine the extent to which our 2005 operating results will be negatively impacted.  If an agreement is not reached in 2005, the negative impact to Madison Square Garden's operating results could be significant, but the impact would not be material to the Company's consolidated operating results.
for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $6.5 million (1%) as compared to the prior year.  This decrease was primarily due to a reduction in costs attributable to the cancellation of the NHL 2004/2005 season. Other factors contributing to this decrease were lower costs associated with events held outside the Company's venues, the absence of the costs for due to the discontinuation of this show, as well as lower operating costs at MSG Networks.  The impact of these favorable results, aggregating $75.5 million, was substantially offset by a net increase of $69.0 million.  The main drivers of this net increase were higher provisions for Knicks active roster luxury tax and for certain team transactions, higher team compensation, a credit recorded in the first quarter of 2003 reflecting the reversal of a luxury tax provision attributable to a certain player who was previously waived due to a career ending injury, as well as increased costs associated with favorable revenue items discussed above.
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization)
A Christmas Carol
 
for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $2.5 million (2%) as compared to the prior year primarily due to higher professional fees and promotional costs, partially offset by a decrease in expenses related to employee stock and long-term incentive plans, lower provisions for severance, as well as other cost savings across the Company.
Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
of $95.8 million in 2004 results from the notice of termination of Madison Square Garden's broadcast rights agreement with the New York Mets.  In the second quarter of 2004, the New York Mets gave notice of termination of their rights agreement with Madison Square Garden, and with the notice paid Madison Square Garden a contractually obligated termination fee of $54.0 million.  The termination of the rights agreement will be effective after the 2005 baseball season.  In addition, Madison Square Garden recorded a $41.8 million credit reflecting the reversal of a purchase accounting liability related to this rights agreement. Other operating income of $0.5 million in 2003 resulted from the sale of trade accounts receivable from Adelphia Communications for which a reserve had been previously recorded.
Other operating income
 
of $4.1 million in 2004 represent severance costs associated with the elimination of certain staff positions in the first and second quarters of 2004, as well as an additional charge recorded as a result of the final cost determination for benefits associated with the elimination of certain staff positions in 2003.  Restructuring charges of $3.7 million in 2003 primarily represent severance costs associated with the elimination of certain other staff positions in the second quarter of 2003.
Restructuring charges
 
for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased $6.8 million (13%) as compared to the prior year due primarily to certain intangibles and fixed assets becoming fully amortized and depreciated, respectively.
Depreciation and amortization expense
 
Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2003 Versus Year Ended December 31, 2002
 
for the year ended December 31, 2003 increased $358.8 million (10%) as compared to revenues for the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
 
 
Amounts exclude the effects of the decrease in bad debt expense related to Adelphia Communications.
*
                            
 
include primarily:
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization (including impairments))
 
cable programming costs which are costs paid to programmers, net of amortization of any launch support received, for cable content and are generally paid on a per-subscriber basis,
 - 
                 
 
network management and field service costs which represent costs associated with the maintenance of our broadband network, including costs of certain customer connections,
 - 
                 
 
contractual rights payments to broadcast certain live sporting events and contractual payments pursuant to employment agreements with professional sports teams personnel,
 - 
                 
 
programming and production costs of our Rainbow businesses, and
 - 
                 
 
interconnection, call completion and circuit fees relating to our telephony business.
 - 
                 
 
for 2003 increased $200.1 million (12%) compared to 2002.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization (including impairments))
 
 
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased 1% during 2003 as compared to 2002
 
include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs, costs of facilities and costs of customer call centers. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $176.6 million (19%) for 2003 as compared to 2002.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
 
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 2% in 2003 compared to 2002.  Excluding the effects of the stock plan, as a percentage of revenues such costs remained constant during 2003 as compared to 2002.
 
of $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from the sale of trade accounts receivable from Adelphia Communications for which a reserve had previously been recorded.
Other operating income
 
amounted to $10.7 million in 2003 and $74.1 million in 2002.  The 2003 amount is comprised of $4.6 million in facility realignment costs relating to the 2001 restructuring, and $6.1 million of new provisions associated with the elimination of positions, including severance, outplacement costs and other related costs relating to the 2003 restructuring.  The 2002 amount is comprised of a $1.1 million increase relating to the 2001 restructuring and $73.0 million of new provisions relating to the 2002 restructuring.  Such charges include expenses associated with the elimination of positions, including severance, outplacement costs and other related costs, and facility realignment. The 2002 restructuring also includes the $32.5 million portion of a settlement with a vendor attributed to a reduction in required digital set top box commitments.
Restructuring charges
 
increased $179.9 million (21%) for 2003 as compared to 2002.  The increases resulted primarily from depreciation of new subscriber devices, headend upgrades and new plant assets, the write-off of certain fixed assets, costs of disposal of certain fixed assets and amortization of acquired intangibles.
Depreciation and amortization (including impairments)
 
increased $119.5 million (25%) during 2003 compared to 2002.  Approximately $87.3 million of the increase for the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from the classification of dividends on CSC Holdings' Series H and Series M Redeemable Preferred Stock as interest expense in connection with the implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 150 as of July 1, 2003 and the inclusion of such dividends for the six months ended December 31, 2003 in interest expense.  The remaining increase of $32.2 million was primarily attributable to higher overall average debt balances, partly offset by lower average interest rates (weighted average of 6.3% in 2003 as compared to 6.6% in 2002) and lower interest income ($10.9 million in 2003 as compared to $21.2 million in 2002.)
Net interest expense
 
amounted to $429.7 million in 2003 compared to equity in net loss of affiliates of $42.0 million in 2002.  Such amounts consist of the Company's share of the net income or loss of certain businesses in which the Company has varying minority ownership interests.  The amount for the year ended December 31, 2003 includes $434.6 million representing our equity in the net income of Northcoast Communications, LLC, which resulted primarily from the gain related to Northcoast Communications' sale of its personal communication service licenses to Verizon Wireless.
Equity in net income of affiliates
of $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from the contemplated settlement of working capital adjustments associated with the Company's sale of cable systems to AT&T in 2001.
Loss on sale of cable assets
 
for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 consists of the following:
Gain (loss) on investments, net
 
 
The effects of these gains and losses are largely offset by the losses and gains on related derivative contracts described below.
 
of $0.4 million in 2003 and $6.9 million in 2002 consist principally of costs written off in connection with amendments to, or termination of, the Company's credit agreements and the redemption of the Company's senior subordinated notes.
Write-off of deferred financing costs
 
for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 consists of the following:
Gain (loss) on derivative contracts, net
 
 
amounted to $17.2 million in 2002.  The 2002 loss resulted from the settlement of the Company's collateralized indebtedness relating to the monetization of its shares of Adelphia Communications common stock under prepaid forward contracts.
Loss on extinguishment of debt
 
represent other parties' shares of the net income (losses) of entities which are not entirely owned by us but which are consolidated in our financial statements.  For the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 minority interests consists of the following:
Minority interests
 
 
Beginning July 1, 2003, these dividend requirements are recorded as interest expense.
*
                            
 
of $3.7 million for 2003 resulted primarily from dividends received on certain of the Company's investment securities.  The 2002 expense of $5.6 million includes various miscellaneous expenses, partially offset by dividends on certain of the Company's investment securities.
Net miscellaneous income
 
attributable to continuing operations of $26.4 million in 2003 resulted primarily from the pretax loss, offset by an increase in the valuation allowance of $28.0 million, non-deductible preferred stock dividends, a non-deductible adjustment related to the exchange right and put option related to the Series A Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings, state taxes, and an adjustment to the deferred tax rate.  The income tax benefit of $81.5 million in 2002 resulted from a pretax loss, partially offset by an increase in the valuation allowance of $58.6 million, non-deductible preferred stock dividends and state taxes.
Income tax expense
 
for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 reflects the following items associated with assets held for sale, net of related income taxes and minority interests:
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
 
 
 
Business Segments Results - Cablevision Systems Corporation
 
Telecommunications Services
 
The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenue for the Company's telecommunications services segment.
 
 
for the year ended December 31, 2003 increased $295.8 million (12%) as compared to revenues for the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
 
 
for 2003 increased $121.1 million (13%) compared to 2002.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization)
 
 
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses remained constant during 2003 as compared to 2002.
increased $126.6 million (26%) for 2003 as compared to 2002.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
 
during 2003 as compared to 2002.
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 2% for 2003 as compared to 2002.  Excluding the effects of the stock plan, as a percentage of revenues such costs remained constant
 
amounted to $2.9 million in 2003 and $47.4 million in 2002.  The 2003 amount is comprised of $3.4 million of new provisions associated with the elimination of positions, including severance, outplacement costs and other related costs relating to the 2003 and 2002 restructurings, partially offset by a credit of $0.5 million in facility realignment costs relating to the 2001 restructuring.
Restructuring charges
 
The 2002 amount is comprised of a $2.2 million increase relating to the 2001 restructuring and $45.2 million of new provisions relating to the 2002 restructuring.  Such charges include expenses associated with the elimination of positions, including severance, outplacement costs and other related costs, and facility realignment and for the 2002 restructuring includes the $32.5 million portion of a settlement with a vendor attributed to a reduction in required digital set top box commitments.
 
increased $165.1 million (27%) for 2003 as compared to 2002.  The net increases resulted primarily from depreciation of new subscriber devices, headend upgrades and new plant assets, the write-off of certain fixed assets and costs of disposal of certain fixed assets.
Depreciation and amortization expense
 
Rainbow
 
The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues for the Company's Rainbow segment.
 
 
for the year ended December 31, 2003 increased $94.6 million (18%) as compared to revenues for the prior year.  Approximately $36.7 million of the increase was attributed to growth in programming network subscribers and rate increases, and approximately $51.3 million of the increase was due primarily to higher advertising revenue.  In addition, a $6.6 million bad debt expense associated with Adelphia Communications was recorded in 2002 with no comparable expense in 2003.
Revenues, net
 
for the year ended December 31, 2003 increased $44.0 million (19%) compared to 2002.  The increase was comprised of $26.6 million of increased costs to develop content for the VOOM 21 channels and $17.9 million relating to the write-down of certain film and programming contracts.  The remaining net decrease of $0.5 million resulted from lower net programming and production costs.  As a percentage of revenues, such costs remained constant during 2003 as compared to 2002.
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization)
 
increased $50.2 million (21%) for 2003 compared to 2002.  The net increase was comprised of an increase of $21.6 million resulting from higher sales, marketing, advertising and other general and administrative cost increases, $20.2 million in charges related to an employee stock plan, and a $12.4 million increase resulting from costs associated with the investigation, partially offset by a decrease of $4.0 million in charges related to a long-term incentive plan.  As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 1% in 2003 as compared to 2002.  Excluding the effects of the stock plan, such expenses decreased 2% as a percentage of revenue during 2003 as compared to 2002.
Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
of $4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 resulted from the sale of trade accounts receivable from Adelphia Communications for which a reserve had previously been recorded.
Other operating income
 
of $4.5 million in 2002 is comprised of a reduction of $6.1 million in a facility lease obligation as a result of the Bravo transaction and a $1.6 million charge relating to the 2002 restructuring plan.  Such charges include expenses associated with the elimination of positions, including severance, outplacement costs and other related costs, and facility realignment.
Restructuring credits
 
increased $31.8 million (53%) for the year ended December 31, 2003 when compared to 2002.  An increase of approximately $27.9 million resulted from amortization of acquired intangibles and approximately $3.9 million resulted from depreciation of new fixed assets.
Depreciation and amortization expense
Madison Square Garden
 
The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenue for Madison Square Garden.
 
 
for the year ended December 31, 2003 declined $17.7 million (2%), as compared to revenues for the prior year.  This net decrease is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
 
 
for the year ended December 31, 2003 increased $37.1 million (7%) as compared to the prior year.  These expenses were unfavorably impacted by an increase of $15.6 million due to adjustments made to luxury tax accruals payable to the National Basketball Association ("NBA").  In 2002, MSG recorded a credit reflecting the reversal of provisions recorded in prior periods for luxury tax expense as the NBA announced that there would be no luxury tax assessment for the 2001/2002 season.  In 2003, MSG recorded a credit reflecting the reversal of a luxury tax provision attributable to a certain player who was previously waived due to a career ending injury.  The remaining net increase is attributable to an increase in costs associated with events held outside the Company's venues of $9.8 million, higher provisions for luxury tax relating to the Knicks active roster of $9.4 million, higher team compensation of $8.8 million, an increase in costs associated with the award show which took place in the Arena at Madison Square Garden in 2003 of $5.3 million.  These increases were partially offset by $11.8 million primarily due to the absence of the costs for the corporate event discussed above and fewer events at MSG and Radio City Music Hall, as well as lower provisions for certain player transactions, including luxury tax associated with season or career ending Knicks player injuries.
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization)
for the year ended December 31, 2003 increased $2.6 million (2%) as compared to the prior year primarily due to a $12.2 million increase in charges related to an employee stock plan and a $7.7 million provision recorded for severance in 2003.  These increases were substantially offset by a decrease in Madison Square Garden's proportionate share of expense related to Cablevision's long-term incentive plan, lower provisions for bonuses and sales commissions, as well as other cost savings across Madison Square Garden, aggregating $17.3 million.
Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
of $0.5 million in 2003 resulted from the sale of trade accounts receivable from Adelphia Communications for which a reserve had been previously recorded.
Other operating income
 
of $3.7 million in 2003 primarily represent severance costs associated with the elimination of certain staff positions.  Restructuring charges of $0.5 million in 2002 represent an additional charge recorded as a result of the final cost determination for benefits associated with the elimination of certain staff positions in 2001.
Restructuring charges
 
for the year ended December 31, 2003 decreased $7.9 million (13%) as compared to the prior year due primarily to lower amortization expense resulting from certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized.
Depreciation and amortization expense
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - CSC HOLDINGS, INC.
 
The operations of CSC Holdings are identical to the operations of Cablevision, except for (i) interest expense of $85.0 million and related tax benefit of $35.1 million relating to $1.5 billion of Cablevision senior notes issued in April 2004 included in the Cablevision statement of operations and (ii) interest income of $3.8 million and related income tax expense of $1.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 included in CSC Holdings' consolidated statement of operations which is eliminated in Cablevision's consolidated statement of operations.  In addition, prior to the implementation of Statement 150 on July 1, 2003, dividends attributable to the Series H and Series M Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings were reported in minority interests in the consolidated financial statements of Cablevision.  Dividends attributable to the Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings have been reported in minority interests in the consolidated financial statements of Cablevision.  Refer to Cablevision's Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations herein.
 
CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
 
Operating Activities
 
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $723.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $436.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.  The 2004 cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from $873.8 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items, a $52.0 million increase in accrued interest, a $129.8 million increase in feature film rights payable and a $11.9 million increase in accounts payable.  Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash resulting from a $258.4 million increase in feature film inventory resulting from new film licensing agreements, a $56.7 million increase in current and other assets and a $28.9 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities.
 
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $436.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to $357.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.  The 2003 cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from $589.1 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items, a $145.2 million decrease in
accounts receivable from affiliates and a $88.1 million increase in feature film rights payable.  Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash resulting from a $191.7 million increase in feature film inventory, a $108.7 million decrease in
 
accounts payable, a $69.7 million increase in current and other assets and a $15.8 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities.
 
The 2002 cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from $547.9 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items, a $43.3 million increase in feature film rights payable, and a $38.1 million increase in accounts payable.  Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash resulting from a $120.5 million increase in feature film inventory, a $41.7 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities, a $87.5 million increase in accounts receivable from affiliates, and a $22.0 million increase in current and other assets.
 
Investing Activities
 
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $792.3 million compared to $561.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The 2004 investing activities consisted of $697.5 million of capital expenditures, an $84.7 million payment for the acquisitions of our interest in DTV Norwich and its acquisition of FCC licenses to provide multichannel video distribution and data service, $35.8 million increase in restricted cash and other net cash payments of $4.4 million, partially offset by $30.1 million received in connection with Northcoast Communications' sale of PCS licenses, representing the release of funds held in escrow.
 
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $561.2 million compared to $1,226.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.  The 2003 investing activities consisted of $832.1 million of capital expenditures and $179.7 million of payments for acquisitions, partially offset by net cash distributions from equity investees of $443.4 million and other net cash proceeds of $7.2 million.
 
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2002 was $1,226.4 million and consisted of $1,207.6 million of capital expenditures and other net cash payments of $18.8 million.
 
Financing Activities
 
Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $805.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to $398.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.  In 2004, the Company's financing activities consisted primarily of $2,793.9 million of proceeds from the issuance of senior notes, net bank debt proceeds of $132.8 million and $7.3 million from the issuance of common stock, partially offset by payments of $1,694.6 million for the redemption of CSC Holdings' Series H and Series M Redeemable Preferred Stock and its Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock, $350.0 million to redeem CSC Holdings' 9-7/8% senior subordinated debentures, $70.1 million of deferred financing costs and other net cash payments of $14.1 million.
 
Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $398.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to $983.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.  In 2003, the Company's financing activities consisted primarily of proceeds from collateralized indebtedness of $330.7 million, net bank debt proceeds of $271.3 million and proceeds from the issuance of preferred stock of $75.0 million, partially offset by repayment of a note to MGM of $250.0 million and other net cash payments of $28.9 million.
 
Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $983.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.  In 2002, the Company's financing activities consisted primarily of $1,079.1 million of net bank debt proceeds, partially offset by other net cash payments of $95.5 million.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
The net effect of discontinued operations on cash was $194.7 million, $120.8 million and $143.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cablevision Systems Corporation:
 
We have audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying that Cablevision Systems Corporation maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).Cablevision Systems Corporation's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,
 
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
In our opinion, management's assessment that Cablevision Systems Corporation maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteriaestablished in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).Also, in our opinion, Cablevision Systems Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
 
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' deficiency, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, and our report dated March 16, 2005, except for Note 23, which is as of June 3, 2005, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.  Our report refers to the adoption of the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 150, in the year ended December 31, 2003.
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity,
 
 
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cablevision Systems Corporation:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' deficiency, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004.  In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also audited the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2).  These consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and the financial statement scheduled based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
As discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 150, in the year ended December 31, 2003.
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity,
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Cablevision Systems Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 16, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
                                                
 
The Company and Related Matters
 
.
Cablevision Systems Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries ("Cablevision" or the "Company") owns and operates cable television systems and through its subsidiary, Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, has ownership interests in companies that produce and distribute national and regional entertainment and sports programming services, including Madison Square Garden, L.P. ("MSG").  The Company also owns companies that provide advertising sales services for the cable television industry, provide telephone service, operate motion picture theaters and provide direct broadcast satellite service.  The Company classifies its business interests into three segments:  Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of its consumer video, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol and our commercial data and voice services operations; Rainbow, consisting principally of interests in national and regional cable television programming networks, including our VOOM 21 high definition channels; and Madison Square Garden, which owns and operates professional sports teams, regional cable television networks and an entertainment business
 
Principles of Consolidation
 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries and certain variable interest entities pursuant to FIN 46R (see discussion below).  All significant intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
The Company recognizes cable television, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol, and telephony revenues as the services are provided to subscribers.  Installation revenue for our video, consumer high-speed data and Voice over Internet Protocol services is recognized as installations are completed, as direct selling costs have exceeded this revenue in all periods reported.  The Company classifies amounts billed to our customers for local franchise fees as a component of revenue.
 
Our programming businesses recognize affiliate fees from cable and satellite providers as the programming is provided.  Advertising revenues are recognized when commercials are telecast.  In some situations, our programming businesses guarantee certain viewer ratings for their programming.  For these types of transactions, a portion of such revenue is deferred if the guaranteed viewer ratings are not met and is subsequently recognized by providing additional advertising time.
 
Revenues derived from other sources are recognized when services are provided or events occur.
 
Technical and Operating Expense
 
Costs of revenue related to sales of services are classified as "technical and operating" expenses in the accompanying statements of operations.
 
Advertising Expenses
 
Advertising costs are charged to expense when incurred.  Advertising costs for continuing operations amounted to $196,841, $180,046 and $148,055 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Restricted Cash
 
Restricted cash at December 31, 2004 includes approximately $108,600 received in exchange for shares the Company owned of AT&T Wireless ("AWE") common stock, representing the $15 share price paid in consideration of the merger between AWE and Cingular Wireless LLC.  This restricted cash was used to settle the outstanding collateralized indebtedness relating to these shares subsequent to December 31, 2004.
 
Restricted cash at December 31, 2004 also included approximately $21,000 of cash collateralized letters of credit entered into by the Rainbow segment for certain programming and operating lease commitments.  In addition, restricted cash includes an escrow account required by the National Hockey League, restricted cash required by certain operating agreements and cash collateralized letters of credit aggregating approximately $14,800 for the Madison Square Garden segment.
 
Accounts Receivable
 
The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of valuation allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable by evaluating general factors such as length of time individual receivables are past due, historical collection experience, and the economic and competitive environment.
 
Investments
 
Investment securities and investment securities pledged as collateral are classified as trading securities and are stated at fair value with unrealized holding gains and losses included in net income (loss).
 
The Company's interests in less than majority-owned entities in which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies of the investee are accounted for under the equity method. Equity method investments are recorded at original cost and adjusted to recognize the Company's proportionate share of the investees' net income or losses, additional contributions made and distributions received.  The Company would recognize a loss where there existed an other than temporary decline in the value of the investment.
 
Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets
 
Property, plant and equipment, including construction materials, are carried at cost, and include all direct costs and certain indirect costs associated with the construction of cable television transmission and distribution systems, and the costs of new product and subscriber installations.  Equipment under capital leases is recorded at the present value of the total minimum lease payments.  Depreciation on equipment is calculated on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets or, with respect to equipment under capital leases and leasehold improvements, amortized over the shorter of the lease term or the assets' useful lives and reported with depreciation and amortization (including impairments) in the consolidated statements of operations.
 
Affiliation, broadcast and other agreements (primarily cable television system programming agreements) are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from 3 to 12 years.  Other intangible assets are amortized on the straight-line basis over the periods benefited (5 to 25 years).  Excess costs over fair value of net assets acquired ("goodwill") and the value of franchises acquired in purchase business combinations which have indefinite useful lives are no longer amortized in connection with the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, on January 1, 2002.
The Company reviews its long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets subject to amortization that arose from business combinations accounted for under the purchase method) for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  If the sum of the expected cash flows, undiscounted and without interest, is less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value.
 
The Company evaluates the recoverability of its goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired.  Statement 142 requires that goodwill impairment be determined using a two-step process.  The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any.  The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.  If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill which would be recognized in a business combination.
 
The impairment test for other intangible assets not subject to amortization consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value.  If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
 
Satellite Development Costs
 
In 2001, Rainbow DBS entered into a contract for the construction of its satellite with Lockheed Martin Corporation.  The contract provided for scheduled payments over a period extending through 2003, as well as cancellation penalties if the contract was terminated before the satellite was launched.  As of December 31, 2003, payments made under the terms of the contract totaled approximately $255,300.  In connection with the construction of this satellite, the Company capitalized interest of $7,692 and $7,390, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002.  This satellite was launched in July 2003, therefore no interest was capitalized since that date.
 
Rainbow DBS has the right to terminate this contract prior to November 21, 2005 without penalty.  If the contract is terminated subsequent to that date, Rainbow DBS would be required to make a termination payment, which at December 31, 2005 would not be significant.  Milestone payments scheduled to be made in 2005 aggregate $50,900.  However, milestone payments would cease upon termination of the contract.  As of December 31, 2004, payments made under the terms of this contract totaled approximately $5,788.
. 
Rainbow DBS entered into a satellite procurement contract covering five Ka-band satellites with Lockheed Martin in November 2004.  The construction cost under the contract is approximately $740,000, subject to certain adjustments
 
Refer to Note 5 for a discussion of impairment charges relating to the Rainbow DBS segment and Note 23 for a discussion of events subsequent to December 31, 2004 which affect this segment.
 
Feature Film Inventory
 
Rights to feature film inventory acquired under license agreements along with the related obligations are recorded at the contract value when a license agreement is executed or the license period has begun.  Costs are amortized to technical and operating expense on a straight-line basis over the respective license
periods.  Amounts payable subsequent to December 31, 2004 related to feature film telecast rights are as follows:
 
 
See Note 5 for a discussion of the Company's review of the programming usefulness of our feature film inventory and impairment charges recorded in 2004, 2003 and 2002.
 
Deferred Carriage Fees
 
Deferred carriage fees represent amounts paid or payable to cable system operators to guarantee carriage of certain programming services and are amortized as a reduction to revenue over the period of the related guarantee (1 to 11 years).
 
Deferred Financing Costs
 
Costs incurred to obtain debt are deferred and amortized to interest expense over the life of the related debt.
 
Income Taxes
 
Income taxes are provided based upon the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, which requires the asset and liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and permits the recognition of deferred tax assets, subject to an ongoing assessment of realizability.
 
Income (Loss) Per Common Share
 
Basic and diluted net loss per common share are computed by dividing net loss by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding.  Potential dilutive common shares are not included in the computation as their effect would be antidilutive.
 
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average common stock outstanding during the period.  Diluted net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average common stock and common stock equivalents outstanding during the period.
A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator of the basic and diluted net income per share calculation for the year ended December 31, 2002 follows:
 
 
A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator of the basic and diluted earnings per share is not presented for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 as the Company incurred net losses and potential dilutive common shares were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share as their effect would be antidilutive.
 
All per share amounts have been adjusted, for all years presented, to reflect the tracking stock distribution in March 2001 and the subsequent exchange of each share of Rainbow Media Group  ("RMG") tracking stock for 1.19093 shares of Cablevision NY Group ("CNYG") common stock on August 20, 2002, as if each occurred on January 1, 2001.
 
In the second quarter of 2004, the Company implemented Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 03-6, Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128.  EITF 03-6 requires convertible participating securities to be included in the computation of earnings per share using the "two-class" method.  The Company's Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock was considered a convertible participating security.  When applicable, basic and diluted earnings per share would be restated to reflect the impact of utilizing the two-class method required by EITF 03-6.  The implementation of EITF 03-6 had no impact on earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 and as of December 31, 2004, the Company had no convertible participating securities outstanding.
 
Reclassifications
 
Certain reclassifications have been made in the 2003 and 2002 financial statements to conform to the 2004 presentation.  In addition, the assets and liabilities attributable to Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida and certain assets of the Rainbow DBS distribution business have been classified in the consolidated balance sheets as assets and liabilities held for sale for all periods presented.  The operating results of these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. See Note 23.
 
Cash Flows
 
For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, the Company considers short-term investments with a maturity at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
During 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company's non-cash investing and financing activities and other supplemental data were as follows:
 
 
Stock Option Plan
 
The Company applies the intrinsic value based method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and related interpretations to account for its stock based compensation awards.  Under this method, compensation expense is recorded on the date of grant only if the current market price of the underlying stock exceeded the exercise price.  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, established accounting and disclosure requirements using a fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation plans.  As allowed by Statement No. 123, the Company has elected to continue to apply the intrinsic value method of accounting prescribed by APB No. 25.
,
The table below sets forth the pro forma net income (loss) as if compensation cost was determined in accordance with Statement No. 123 for options granted in 1995 through 2004:
 
 
The Company estimated the fair value of each option grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.  The following assumptions were used in calculating these fair values:
 
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
 
The Company uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure to market risks from changes in certain equity prices and interest rates and does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.  These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges, and changes in the fair values of these derivatives are recognized in earnings as gains (losses) on derivative contracts.
If the derivative is designated as a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative will either be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized as a component of comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.  The ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value will be immediately recognized in earnings. 
The Company accounts for derivative financial instruments in accordance with Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended.  Statement No. 133 requires that an entity recognize all derivatives, as defined, as either assets or liabilities measured at fair value. 
 
Concentrations and Credit Risk
 
Financial instruments that may potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables.  Cash is invested in money market funds, bank time deposits or in obligations of the U.S. Treasury.   The Company's cash investments are placed with money markets funds or financial institutions that have received the highest rating awarded by S&P and Moody's.  The Company had one customer that accounted for approximately 11% and 17% of the
Company's consolidated net trade receivable balances at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, which exposes the Company to a concentration of credit risk.  Although this customer exceeded 10 percent of the Company's consolidated net trade receivables, the Company does not have a single external customer which represents 10 percent or more of its consolidated revenues.
 
Use of Estimates in Preparation of Financial Statements
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Commitments and Contingencies
 
Liabilities for loss contingencies arising from claims, assessments, litigation, fines and penalties and other sources are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the assessment can be reasonably estimated.
 
Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Standards
 
In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.  FIN 46, as revised in December 2003 ("FIN 46R"), addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities, which are entities that either (a) do not have equity investors with characteristics of a controlling financial interest, (b) equity investors do not have voting rights that are proportionate to their economic interest, or (c) have equity investors that do not provide sufficient financial resources for the entity to support its activities.  For all variable interest entities created prior to February 1, 2003, the Company was required to apply the provisions of FIN 46R by March 31, 2004.  For variable interest entities created subsequent to January 31, 2003, FIN 46R was effective in 2003.  In determining how to account for our interests in variable interest entities ("VIE"), we consolidated all VIEs for which we are either the primary beneficiary or provide more than half of the total of the equity, subordinated debt, or other forms of subordinated financial support.  The Company consolidated its investment in Northcoast Communications LLC at March 31, 2004 (see Note 14) and its investment in DTV Norwich LLC as of the date of the DTV Norwich Transaction (see Note 3).  In addition, the Company consolidated its investment in PVI Virtual Media Services LLC in the second quarter of 2004 in connection with an amendment to the LLC agreement which caused the Company to reconsider whether PVI Virtual Media was a variable interest entity.  PVI Virtual Media markets a real time video insertion system that through patented technology places computer generated electronic images into television broadcasts of sporting events and other programming.  PVI Virtual Media's total assets and liabilities consolidated in the second quarter of 2004 amounted to approximately $15,000 and $4,000, respectively.  PVI Virtual Media's total assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $14,400 and $7,600, respectively.  Creditors of PVI Virtual Media have no recourse to the general credit of the Company.
 
In March 2004, the EITF ratified its consensus related to the application guidance within EITF Issue 03-1, The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments.  EITF 03-1 applies to investments in debt and equity securities within the scope of Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, and equity securities that are not subject to the scope of Statement No. 115 and not accounted for under the equity method under APB Opinion 18 and related interpretations.  EITF 03-1 requires that a three-step model be applied in determining when an investment is considered impaired, whether that impairment is other than temporary
and the measurement of an impairment loss.  The adoption of EITF 03-1 did not have an impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
In March 2004, the EITF reached a consensus regarding Issue No. 03-16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies. EITF 03-16 requires investments in limited liability companies that have separate ownership accounts for each investor to be accounted for similar to a limited partnership investment under Statement of Position No. 78-9, Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures.  Investors would be required to apply the equity method of accounting to their investments at a much lower ownership threshold than the 20% threshold applied under Accounting Principles Board No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock.  EITF 03-16 was effective for the first period beginning after June 15, 2004.  The adoption of EITF 03-16 did not have an impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
In September 2004, the SEC staff issued Topic D-108, Use of the Residual Method to Value Acquired Assets Other than Goodwill, which requires the direct method of separately valuing all intangible assets and does not permit goodwill to be included in franchise assets.  Topic D-108 requires the application of the direct value method to such assets acquired in business combinations completed after September 29, 2004.  Further, for registrants who have applied the residual method to the valuation of intangible assets for purposes of impairment testing, such registrants should perform an impairment test using a direct value method for all intangible assets that were previously valued using the residual method by no later than the beginning of their first fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2004.  Impairments recognized upon application of Topic D-108 should be reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting.  The Company currently uses the direct value method for purposes of impairment testing of its indefinite-lived intangibles and therefore the adoption of Topic D-108 had no impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
 
financial position or results of operations in 2004.
In September 2004, the EITF reached a consensus regarding Issue No. 04-1, Accounting for Preexisting Relationships Between the Parties to a Business Combination. EITF 04-1 requires an acquirer in a business combination to evaluate any preexisting relationship with the acquiree to determine if the business combination in effect contains a settlement of the preexisting relationship.  A business combination between parties with a preexisting relationship should be viewed as a multiple element transaction. EITF 04-1 is effective for business combinations after October 13, 2004, but requires goodwill resulting from prior business combinations involving parties with a preexisting relationship to be tested for impairment by applying the guidance in the consensus in impairment tests performed after October 13, 2004. The application of the provisions of EITF 04-1 had no impact on the Company's
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions. Statement No. 153 addresses the principle that exchanges of nonmonetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged. Statement No. 153 eliminates the narrow exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a broader exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. Previously, Opinion 29 required that the accounting for an exchange of a productive asset for a similar productive asset or an equivalent interest in the same or similar productive asset should be based on the recorded amount of the asset relinquished.  The Statement is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005.  The provisions of Statement No. 153 will be adopted for all nonmonetary exchanges initiated after July 1, 2005 and therefore had no impact to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004.
In December 2004, the FASB issued a revision of FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, Statement No. 123R.  Statement No. 123R supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance and it establishes standards for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services.  It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the entity's equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments.  Statement No. 123R requires a public entity to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award.  That cost will be recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award (usually the vesting period).  No compensation cost is recognized for equity instruments for which employees do not render the requisite service.  The Company will be required to apply the provisions of Statement No. 123R beginning with its fiscal quarter commencing on July 1, 2005, and therefore the Statement had no impact to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004.  The Company has not yet determined the method of adoption or the effect that the adoption will have on its financial position or results of operations.
 
Common Stock
 
In March 2001, the Company amended and restated its Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of preferred stock from 10 million to 50 million and to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock from 560 million to 1.88 billion of which:
 
800 million are designated Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock,
 - 
                 
320 million are designated Cablevision NY Group Class B common stock,
 - 
                 
600 million are designated Rainbow Media Group Class A common stock, and
 - 
                 
160 million are designated Rainbow Media Group Class B common stock.
 - 
                 
 
On March 29, 2001, the Company distributed a new series of common stock called Rainbow Media Group tracking stock.  The new series was intended to track the economic performance of certain of the businesses and interests of Rainbow Media Holdings, including its national and selected regional programming assets.  The tracking stock was distributed to holders of the Company's common stock at a ratio of one share of Rainbow Media Group for every two shares of the Company's common stock held.  The Company's then existing common stock was redesignated as Cablevision NY Group common stock.
 
In March 2001, the Company amended the employee stock plan to reflect the redesignation of the Company's Class A common stock as Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock, and reflect the distribution of Rainbow Media Group Class A common stock.  In addition, the number of shares available for issuance under the employee stock plan was increased by 19,200,000, any or all of which were allowed to be Cablevision NY Group common stock or Rainbow Media Group common stock.
 
In August 2002, Cablevision's Board of Directors approved the exchange of Rainbow Media Group common stock for shares of Cablevision NY Group common stock pursuant to the terms of Cablevision's Certificate of Incorporation.  Each share of Rainbow Media Group common stock was exchanged for 1.19093 shares of Cablevision NY Group common stock on August 20, 2002.  Fractional shares were paid in cash.  From and after the date of the exchange, all rights of holders of shares of Rainbow Media Group common stock ceased except for the right, upon surrender of the certificates representing their shares of Rainbow Media Group common stock, to receive the shares of Cablevision NY Group common stock for which their shares of Rainbow Media Group common stock were exchanged, together with any fractional payment as provided above, without interest.
Each holder of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock has one vote per share while holders of Cablevision NY Group Class B common stock have ten votes per share.  Cablevision NY Group Class B stockholders have the right to elect 75% of the members of the Company's Board of Directors while the Cablevision NY Group Class A stockholders are entitled to elect the remaining 25% of the Company's board.  In addition, Class B stockholders entered into an agreement which has the effect of causing the voting power of these Class B stockholders to be cast as a block.  The Company has never paid dividends on its common stock.  Certain of the Company's senior and subordinated note indentures contain restrictions on the Company's ability to pay dividends.
 
NOTE 2.
ACCOUNTING RELATED INVESTIGATIONS
                                                
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York continue to conduct investigations into matters related to the improper expense recognition previously reported by the Company.  In July 2004, in connection with the Company's response to the comments of the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the Securities and Exchange Commission on the Company's filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company provided information with respect to certain of its previous restatement adjustments relating to the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements.  The staff of the Division of Enforcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission has contacted the Company to ask for additional information on these launch support, marketing and other payments.
 
NOTE 3.
                                                
TRANSACTIONS
 
2004 Transactions
 
In January 2004, Rainbow DBS Company, LLC, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, invested $100 for a 49% interest in DTV Norwich, an entity that acquired licenses at auction from the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") to provide multichannel video distribution and data service ("MVDDS") in 46 metropolitan areas in the United States.  In connection with the equity investment, the Company loaned DTV Norwich an additional $84,600 for the acquisition of these licenses (the "DTV Norwich Transaction").  Under the terms of the promissory note with DTV Norwich, the loan was forgiven when the FCC granted the MVDDS licenses to DTV Norwich on July 27, 2004 and September 23, 2004.
 
Rainbow DBS also agreed to a put/call option with the other investor in DTV Norwich.  Rainbow DBS had a call option to purchase an additional 41% membership interest in DTV Norwich at an exercise price of $4,230.  Rainbow DBS exercised its call option on October 29, 2004.  Rainbow DBS has received FCC approval to acquire the 41% membership interest which will give Rainbow DBS control of this entity.  The other investor has the right, for ten years, to put its remaining 10% interest to Rainbow DBS at fair value to be determined by a process involving independent valuation experts.
 
Pursuant to FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, this entity was consolidated with the Company as of the date of the transaction since it does not have sufficient equity to demonstrate that it can finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support.  The acquired licenses were recorded in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as other intangible assets and were deemed to have an indefinite life.  Since this variable interest entity is not considered a business pursuant to FIN 46R, the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid and the newly consolidated non-controlling interest over the fair value of the newly consolidated identifiable assets, of $7,436 net of taxes of $5,384, was recorded as an extraordinary loss.  In connection with the Company's decision in December 2004 to
seek strategic alternatives for the Rainbow DBS business (see Note 5 and Note 23), the Company reduced the carrying value of the acquired licenses to their estimated fair value of $6,113 based on available MVDDS auction value information.
 
In accordance with the provisions of FIN 46R, the assets and liabilities attributable to the Company's 49.9% interest in Northcoast Communications (a wireless personal communications business) were consolidated and classified as assets and liabilities held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2004.  Northcoast Communications' consolidated net assets consisted primarily of the net assets of its Cleveland PCS subsidiary.  Vendor financing for the Cleveland PCS business consisted of a $75,000 credit facility at Cleveland PCS, LLC.  This facility had no recourse to the Company or to Northcoast Communications, other than pursuant to a pledge by Northcoast Communications of the stock of Cleveland PCS and a guarantee of the payment by Northcoast Communications and the Company of the FCC indebtedness of the Cleveland PCS subsidiary which held the Cleveland PCS license.  In March 2004, Northcoast Communications agreed to sell its Cleveland PCS business to an unaffiliated entity.  The FCC indebtedness was fully repaid by Cleveland PCS in the second quarter of 2004.  The sale of Cleveland PCS was consummated in July 2004 and the obligations of Cleveland PCS under the vendor financing were satisfied.  The Company did not record any gain or loss in connection with the sale.   The net assets sold in the third quarter of 2004 consisted of the following:
 
 
The Company's investment in Northcoast Communications was zero at December 31, 2004.
 
2003 Transactions
 
In July 2003, the Company repurchased Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc.'s ("MGM") 20% interest in each of AMC, The Independent Film Channel ("IFC") and WE: Women's Entertainment for $500,000 and entered into a film rights agreement relating to the MGM film library.  The $500,000 purchase price consisted of $250,000 in cash and a $250,000 note issued by Cablevision and maturing five months after closing, payable in cash or, at Cablevision's election, shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock.  The $250,000 note required monthly principal payments of $2,500 in cash prior to maturity.  The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.  The excess of the purchase price over the net book value of the assets acquired of approximately $415,662 was allocated to the specific assets acquired as follows:
 
In May 2003, Northcoast Communications completed its sale of spectrum licenses covering 50 U.S. markets to Verizon Wireless for approximately $763,000 in cash.  Of the proceeds, approximately $51,000 was used by Northcoast Communications to retire debt.  The remaining proceeds, after payment of expenses, were distributed to the partners of Northcoast Communications, including the Company.  The Company's share of the proceeds was approximately $651,000.  All of the funds were used by the Company to repay bank debt under the Restricted Group credit facility.
 
In March 2003, the Company transferred the stock of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cablevision Electronics Investments, Inc. to GBO Electronics Acquisition, LLC.  As of December 31, 2003, the Company recorded losses aggregating $8,382, net of taxes, in connection with this transaction.
 
In January 2003, subsidiaries of News Corporation ("News Corporation") exercised a put option relating to interests in Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area that News Corporation held outside of Regional Programming Partners.  Regional Programming Partners, which held a 50% interest in each of these businesses, is a 60% owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings.  In March 2003, Rainbow Media Holdings and News Corporation agreed on a $110,000 purchase price for News Corporation's 50% interest in Fox Sports Net Bay Area and a $40,000 purchase price for News Corporation's 50% interest in Fox Sports Net Chicago, payable in each case in the form of three-year promissory notes of a subsidiary of Regional Programming Partners, bearing interest at the prime rate plus 1% and secured by Regional Programming Partners' 100% interest in Fox Sports Net Bay Area.  The transaction closed in December 2003 and the operating results of the acquired businesses have been consolidated with those of the Company as of the acquisition date.  The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.  The excess of the purchase price over the net book value of the assets acquired of approximately $77,259 was allocated to the specific assets acquired as follows:
 
 
2002 Transactions
 
During the six months ended June 30, 2002, NBC-Rainbow Holding, Inc., a subsidiary of National Broadcasting Company ("NBC"), had exchanged a 5.0% interest in Rainbow Media Holdings equity securities for 9,968,988 shares of Rainbow Media Group Class A common stock of Cablevision (valued at $98,514).  The Rainbow Media Group common stock was exchanged for 11,872,367 shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock on August 20, 2002.  In September 2002, NBC exchanged a 0.7% interest in Rainbow Media Holdings equity securities for 1,647,266 shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock of Cablevision (valued at $16,374).  In connection with the sale of the Bravo programming service to NBC in December 2002 discussed below, the Company acquired NBC's remaining 17.2% minority interest in Rainbow Media Holdings, increasing the Company's interest in Rainbow Media Holdings to 100%.
 
The acquisitions of the 22.9% and the 3.1% minority interests in 2002 and 2001, respectively, were accounted for as purchases.  The excess of the purchase prices over the net book value of assets acquired of approximately $293,353 was allocated to the specific assets acquired, in 2002, as follows:
 
 
In December 2002, the Company completed the sale of Rainbow Media Holdings' 80% interest in the Bravo programming service to NBC for $1.0 billion, payable in General Electric Company common stock and 53.2 million shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock (21.8 million shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock held by NBC and 31.4 million shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock issuable upon the conversion of shares of Rainbow Media Holdings common stock held by NBC).  The 21.8 million shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock, valued at $359,750, have been recorded as treasury stock in the Company's consolidated balance sheet.  The Company recorded a gain of $663,352, net of taxes, in connection with this transaction.  The operating results of the Bravo programming service, including the gain on sale, have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented.  The net operating results of the Bravo programming service were previously reported in the Rainbow segment.
 
In March 2002, Rainbow Media Holdings acquired Loral Space and Communications, Ltd.'s 50% interest in Rainbow DBS (formerly R/L DBS Company, LLC) for a purchase price of up to a present value of $33,000 payable from a percentage of future revenues of Rainbow DBS' business, if any, or from any future sale of all or part of the interests in or assets of Rainbow DBS.  This purchase increased Rainbow Media Holdings' ownership of Rainbow DBS to 100%.  Rainbow DBS' operating results are consolidated with those of the Company as of the date of acquisition.  At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the total amount due to Loral Space and Communications under this earn-out arrangement was $44,065 and $40,801.
 
In December 2000, the FCC granted an extension to Rainbow DBS' construction permit relating to the DBS frequencies held by Rainbow DBS.  The extension required the launch of a satellite by March 29, 2003 and commencement of service offerings by not later than December 29, 2003, with specified six month interim construction milestones, non-compliance with which would result in the forfeiture of the construction permit.  In March 2003, Rainbow DBS requested an extension of the launch date of a direct broadcast satellite to August 31, 2003 due to the satellite manufacturer's need for additional time for scheduling and testing of the launch vehicle for the satellite. On July 17, 2003, Rainbow DBS successfully launched a direct broadcast satellite into space and on October 15, 2003, Rainbow DBS introduced VOOM, the Company's direct broadcast satellite service.  See Note 23 for a discussion of subsequent events.
Rainbow DBS was formed for the purpose of exploiting certain direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") frequencies.  The FCC's construction permit relating to the DBS frequencies was originally scheduled to expire in August 1999. 
SM
NOTE 4.
RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
                                                
 
In December 2001, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $56,442 (including $13,720 for discontinued operations) which included expenses of approximately $21,018 associated with the elimination of approximately 600 positions, primarily in corporate, administrative and infrastructure functions across various business units of the Company, and estimated expenses of approximately $35,424 associated with facility realignment and other related costs.  The following table summarizes the accrued restructuring liability related to the 2001 restructuring plan for continuing operations:
 
 
In 2002, the Company announced a new operating plan and restructuring which included the closing of 26 retail electronics store locations, the consolidation of customer service call centers, and the elimination of certain staff positions.  Additionally, the Company reached an agreement with its supplier of set top boxes which reduced the Company's purchase commitments for set top boxes from $378,500 in 2002, $378,500 in 2003, and $567,750 in 2004 to a total remaining commitment of $87,500 in 2002 and nothing thereafter and required the Company to make certain other cash payments aggregating $50,000 plus interest on a portion of such amount with respect to, among other things, a license for certain software (valued at $17,500 based on an independent appraisal). In connection with this plan, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $84,626 (including $11,553 for discontinued operations) which included $21,762 (including $3,642 for discontinued operations) associated with the elimination of approximately 3,000 positions, $30,364 (including $7,911 for discontinued operations) associated with facility realignment and other related costs and $32,500 associated with the reduction in required digital set top box commitments.  The following table summarizes the accrued restructuring liability related to the 2002 restructuring plan for continuing operations:
 
 
In 2003, the Company eliminated certain staff positions and incurred severance costs aggregating  $6,111.  The following table summarizes the accrued restructuring liability related to the 2003 restructuring plan for continuing operations:
 
 
In connection with the acquisition of News Corporation's 50% interest in Fox Sports Net Chicago in December 2003, the Company consolidated a restructuring liability of $380 relating to facility realignment costs.  This liability was paid in full as of December 31, 2004.
 
During 2004, the Company recorded restructuring charges aggregating $5,742, associated with the elimination of certain positions in various business units of the Company.  As of December 31, 2004, approximately $4,409 of these charges was paid.
 
Restructuring expenses (credits) by segment for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 are as follows:
 
 
At December 31, 2004, the restructuring liability was classified as a current liability in the consolidated balance sheet.
NOTE 5.
IMPAIRMENT CHARGES
                                                
 
goodwill, intangible and long-lived assets are based on estimates of fair value, certain of which are subject to change upon final disposition of those assets.
film and programming contracts, equipment inventory and deposits are based on net realizable value and the impairment charges related to
In connection with the Board of Directors' decision in December 2004 to suspend pursuing the spin-off of its Rainbow Media Enterprises subsidiary and instead to pursue strategic alternatives for its Rainbow DBS business, the Company performed a review of its assets for recoverability.  The Company recorded an impairment charge of $90,540 included in depreciation and amortization expense relating to long-lived assets and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and a charge of $75,805 included in technical and operating expenses representing the write down of certain film and programming contracts of its VOOM 21 channels.  In addition, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $155,415 reflecting the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of long-lived assets and goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and a charge of $33,052 representing the write off of equipment inventory and deposits which have been recorded in discontinued operations.  The impairment charges related to
 
The Company recorded impairment charges of $2,394, included in depreciation and amortization, relating to certain other long-lived assets deemed impaired within its theater operations and Rainbow segment in 2004.
 
We periodically review the programming usefulness of our feature film inventory based on a series of factors, including ratings, type and quality of program material, standards and practices, and fitness for exhibition based on the programming of the individual programming service. If we determine that substantially all of the films in a film license agreement have no future programming usefulness and will no longer be exploited, we record a write-off for the portion of the unamortized cost of the film license agreement that was attributed to those films.
 
As part of its periodic review of expected programming usefulness, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $297, $17,900 and $1,900 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  Such amounts represent the write-off of the carrying value of certain film and programming contracts of the Company's Rainbow segment and are included in technical and operating expense.
 
In December 2002, the Company recorded an impairment loss of approximately $43,222, included in discontinued operations, representing the write down of software and leasehold improvements relating to the Company's retail electronics business.  The retail electronics business' projected future operating losses caused the Company to reassess the recoverability of the retail electronics business' fixed assets.  The carrying value of these fixed assets exceeded the estimated fair value based on discounted cash flows.
 
NOTE 6.
                                                
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
 
In connection with the transactions discussed in Note 23, the operating results of Fox Sports Net Ohio, Fox Sports Net Florida and the Rainbow DBS distribution business, net of taxes, have been classified in the consolidated statements of operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented.Discontinued operations alsoincludes the operating results and gain (loss) on the transfer of the retail electronics stores in March 2003 and the sale of the Bravo programming business in December 2002.
 
Operating results of discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 are summarized below:
 
For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded losses, net of taxes, of approximately $1,092, representing the finalization of film asset adjustments that relate to the sale of the Bravo programming business.  In addition, the Company recorded losses, net of taxes, of approximately $562 for the year ended December 31, 2004 that related primarily to estimated legal and payroll tax settlements in connection with the transfer of the retail electronics business.
 
 
Certain assets of the Rainbow DBS distribution business, previously included in the Rainbow DBS segment, have been classified as assets held for sale in the consolidated balance sheets of the Company.  These assets relate to the direct broadcast satellite television business of Rainbow DBS.  The assets associated with the VOOM 21 high definition programming of Rainbow DBS are included in the Company's Rainbow segment.  The Rainbow DBS assets held for sale consist of the following:
 
 
As a result of the transaction discussed in Note 23, the assets and liabilities attributable to Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida, previously included in the Rainbow segment, have been classified in the consolidated balance sheets as assets and liabilities held for sale and consist of the following:
 
 
NOTE 7.
                                                
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
Costs incurred in the construction of the Company's cable television system, including line extensions to, and rebuild of, the Company's hybrid fiber-coaxial infrastructure and costs incurred in the construction of the Company's headend facilities are capitalized and included in "headends" and "infrastructure," below.  These costs consist of materials, sub-contractor labor, direct consulting fees, and internal labor and related costs associated with the construction activities.  The internal costs that are capitalized consist of salaries and benefits of Company employees and the portion of facility costs, including rent, taxes, insurance and utilities, that supports the construction activities.  Infrastructure costs are depreciated over the 12-year estimated life of the plant, and headend facilities are depreciated over the estimated life of the specific component, ranging from 4 years for certain electronics to 15 years for tower sites.  Costs of operating the plant and the technical facilities, including repairs and maintenance and call completion fees, are expensed as incurred.
 
In addition, the costs of connecting businesses or residences that have never before been connected to the service offering are capitalized.  These costs include material, subcontractor and internal labor and related costs as discussed above.  In addition, on-site and remote technical assistance during the provisioning process for new digital product offerings are capitalized.  The departmental activities supporting the connection process are tracked through specific metrics, and the portion of departmental costs that is capitalized is determined through a time weighted activity allocation of costs incurred based on time studies used to estimate the average time spent on each activity.  New connections are amortized over 5 years or 12 years for residence wiring and feeder cable to the home, respectively.  The portion of
departmental costs related to reconnection, programming service up- and down- grade, repair and maintenance, and disconnection activities are expensed as incurred.
 
Property, plant and equipment consist of the following assets, which are depreciated or amortized primarily on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives shown below:
 
 
Depreciation expense (including impairments) for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 amounted to $966,291, $970,377 and $815,346, respectively.
 
At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the gross amount of equipment and related accumulated amortization recorded under capital leases were as follows:
 
NOTE 8.
                                                
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
The following table summarizes information relating to the Company's acquired intangible assets at December 31, 2004 and 2003:
 
The changes in the carrying amount of excess costs over the fair value of net assets acquired for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 are as follows:
 
 
NOTE 9.
                                                
DEBT
 
Bank Debt
 
Restricted Group
 
CSC Holdings, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision) has a $2,400,000 revolving credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") with a group of banks which matures on June 30, 2006.  The facility is guaranteed by certain subsidiaries of CSC Holdings, primarily its cable television operating subsidiaries and its commercial telephone subsidiary ("Restricted Group").  The total amount of bank debt outstanding under the Restricted Group credit facility at December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $1,889,000 and $1,513,039  (including $1,039 outstanding under a separate overdraft facility at December 31, 2003), respectively.  As of December 31, 2004, approximately $53,375 was restricted for certain letters of credit issued on behalf of CSC Holdings. Interest on outstanding amounts may be paid, at the option of the Company, based on the prime rate or a Eurodollar rate plus a margin which varies based on the Restricted Group's leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement).
 
Undrawn funds under the Credit Agreement amounted to approximately $457,625 at December 31, 2004.  The Credit Agreement contains certain financial covenants that may limit the Restricted Group's ability to utilize all of the undrawn funds thereunder.  The Credit Agreement contains various restrictive covenants, among which are the maintenance of various financial ratios, limitations on additional indebtedness and limitations on certain payments, including preferred dividends and dividends on its common stock.  In January 2005, the Company amended the debt to cash flow ratio permitted under the Credit Agreement.  The amended covenant is 6.25 times through June 30, 2005, 5.75 times through December 31, 2005 and 5.50 times thereafter through June 30, 2006.  The Company was in compliance with the covenants of its Credit Agreement at December 31, 2004.
 
The weighted average interest rate on all bank borrowings under the Credit Agreement was 3.73% and 3.19% on December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  The Company is also obligated to pay fees ranging from 0.375% to 0.75% per annum on the unused loan commitment and from 0.875% to 2.50% per annum on letters of credit issued under the Credit Agreement.
 
Rainbow National Services 
 
In August 2004, Rainbow National Services LLC ("RNS"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings, which owns the common equity interests in the Company's three national programming services  AMC, WE and IFC, entered into a $950,000 senior secured credit facility ($350,000 of which is a revolving credit facility maturing September 30, 2011 and $600,000 of which is a term loan facility maturing March 31, 2012).  The RNS credit facility is secured by the assets and stock of AMC, WE and IFC and guaranteed by AMC, WE and IFC, and Rainbow Programming Holdings, RNS's direct parent.  The RNS credit facility contains certain covenants that require the maintenance of financial ratios (as defined in the credit facility) as well as restrictions on distributions, additional indebtedness, and liens.  The maximum total leverage ratio per the credit facility is 6.75 times the cash flow (as defined) of AMC, IFC and WE through 2006.  The revolving credit facility requires commitment reductions beginning December 31, 2009 through September 30, 2011.  The term loan requires amortization of 0.25% of the original outstanding balance per quarter beginning June 30, 2005 through March 31, 2011 and 23.50% of the original outstanding balance for each quarter thereafter through its maturity date.  Borrowings under the revolving credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin based upon the leverage ratio.  Amounts under the term loan bear interest at LIBOR plus 2.75%.  There were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2004.  The weighted average interest rate under the term loan was 5.19% on December 31, 2004.
 
Rainbow Media Holdings
 
In December 2003, Rainbow Media Holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CSC Holdings entered into an $823,000 credit facility consisting of a $200,000 revolving credit facility and a $623,000 term loan, maturing on March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009, respectively.  This facility amended and combined the previously existing Rainbow Media Holdings $300,000 credit facility and the AMC, IFC and WE $75,000 credit facility entered into in March 2003.  The amended facility had been secured primarily by the assets of and guaranteed by AMC, IFC, and WE.  Rainbow Media Holdings' 100% interest in the stock of these entities was also pledged as collateral.
 
Loans under the Rainbow Media Holdings credit facility bore interest at the Eurodollar rate plus a margin based upon Rainbow Media Holdings' leverage ratio.  At December 31, 2003, $734,000 was outstanding under this credit facility and bore interest at a weighted average rate of 3.57%.
 
In August 2004, RNS distributed approximately $704,900 to Rainbow Media Holdings which it used to repay all outstanding amounts under its credit facility and collateralize outstanding letters of credit.  Such proceeds were obtained through the issuance of bank debt and the issuance of senior and senior subordinated notes by RNS.  The Company wrote off approximately $12,694 of unamortized deferred financing costs in connection with the termination of the credit facility in 2004.
 
Madison Square Garden
 
MSG, a subsidiary of Regional Programming Partners, had a $500,000 revolving credit facility with a group of banks which was to mature on December 31, 2004.  MSG had pledged substantially all of its assets as collateral under the credit facility.  Loans under the MSG credit facility bore interest at either prime rate or a Eurodollar rate plus a margin based upon MSG's consolidated leverage ratio.  At December 31, 2003, loans outstanding amounted to $110,000, and bore interest at a weighted average rate of 1.93%.  In March 2004, borrowings under the credit facility were repaid in full and the credit facility was terminated with proceeds from a  $146,000 equity contribution from Regional Programming Partners.
The Company wrote off approximately $1,187 of unamortized deferred financing costs in connection with the termination of the credit facility.
 
Senior Notes and Debentures
 
The following table summarizes the Company's senior notes and debentures:
 
 
These notes are not redeemable by the Company prior to maturity.
(a)
                     
The Company may redeem some or all of the notes at any time at a make-whole redemption price calculated by reference to market interest rates for comparable maturity treasury notes plus a spread.
(b)
                    
The senior notes are redeemable, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 104.375% of face value at any time on or after September 1, 2008, 102.188% of face value on or after September 1, 2009, and 100% of face value on or after September 1, 2010.
(c)
                     
 
In April 2004, Cablevision issued $1,000,000 face amount of 8% senior notes due 2012 and $500,000 face amount of floating rate senior notes due 2009.  In addition, CSC Holdings issued $500,000 face amount of 6-3/4% senior notes due 2012.  In August 2004, RNS issued $300,000 aggregate principal amount of 8 3/4% senior notes due 2012.
 
The indentures under which the senior notes and debentures were issued contain various covenants, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the credit agreement of the issuer with which the issuer was in compliance at December 31, 2004.
Subordinated Notes and Debentures
Senior
 
The following table summarizes the Company's senior subordinated notes and debentures:
 
 
These notes were discounted $3,915 upon original issuance.
(a)
                     
The notes/debentures are redeemable, at the Company's option, in whole or in part, on the redemption dates listed at the respective percentage of the principal amount and thereafter at 100% of the aggregate principal amount, in each case together with accrued interest to the redemption date.
(b)
                    
In May 2004, the Company redeemed these senior subordinated debentures.  In connection with these redemptions, the Company recognized a loss of $14,325 representing primarily the redemption premiums paid.
(c)
                     
 
In August 2004, RNS issued $500,000 aggregate principal amount of 10-3/8% senior subordinated notes due 2014.
 
The indentures under which the senior subordinated notes and debentures were issued contain various covenants, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the credit agreement of the issuer with which the issuer was in compliance at December 31, 2004.
Summary of Five Year Debt Maturities
 
Total amounts payable by the Company and its subsidiaries under its various debt obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2004, including collateralized indebtedness (see Note 12) and capital leases, during the five years subsequent to December 31, 2004, are as follows:
 
 
NOTE 10.
PREFERRED STOCK OF CSC HOLDINGS, INC.
                                         
 
The following summarizes each series of CSC Holdings' preferred stock at December 31, 2003:
 
 
In February 2003, Quadrangle Capital Partners LP, a private investment firm, invested $75,000 in CSC Holdings, in the form of 10% Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock convertible into Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock.
 
In connection with the issuance of the Series A preferred stock to Quadrangle, the Company entered into an agreement with Quadrangle which granted Quadrangle the right to require the Company to purchase the preferred stock ("put option") for cash or through the issuance of registered equity securities of the Company, at the Company's option.  The exchange right and the put option were accounted for as a derivative.  Accordingly, the fair value of the exchange right and the put option has been reflected as a liability under derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2003.  The change in the fair value of the exchange right and put option of $31,709 and $38,618 for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively has been reflected as a loss on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.
 
In October 2003, Quadrangle exercised its "put option" to require CSC Holdings to purchase all of its Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock.  The parties entered into an agreement that the put price was $150,328.  The put price was paid in cash by CSC Holdings in August 2004.
 
In February 1996, CSC Holdings issued 6,500,000 depositary shares, representing 65,000 shares of 11-1/8% Series L Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the "Series L Preferred Stock"), which were subsequently exchanged for Series M Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the "Series M Preferred Stock") in August 1996 with terms identical to the Series L Preferred Stock.  The depositary shares were exchangeable, in whole but not in part, at the option of CSC Holdings, for CSC Holdings' 11-1/8% Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2008.  CSC Holdings was required to redeem the Series M Preferred Stock on April 1, 2008 at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference of $10,000 per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends.  The Series M Preferred Stock was redeemable at various
redemption prices beginning at 105.563% at any time on or after April 1, 2003, at the option of CSC Holdings, with accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of redemption.  Before April 1, 2001, dividends could, at the option of CSC Holdings, be paid in cash or by issuing fully paid and nonassessable shares of Series M Preferred Stock with an aggregate liquidation preference equal to the amount of such dividends.  On and after April 1, 2001, dividends were payable in cash.  CSC Holdings paid cash dividends on the Series M Preferred Stock of approximately $42,882, $123,500 and $123,500 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
The Series H Preferred Stock was redeemable at various redemption prices beginning at 105.875% at any time on or after October 1, 2002, at the option of CSC Holdings, with accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of redemption.  Before October 1, 2000, dividends could, at the option of CSC Holdings, be paid in cash or by issuing fully paid and nonassessable shares of Series H Preferred Stock with an aggregate liquidation preference equal to the amount of such dividends.  On and after October 1, 2000, dividends were payable in cash.  The terms of the Series H Preferred Stock permitted CSC Holdings, at its option, to exchange the Series H Preferred Stock for CSC Holdings' 11-3/4% Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2007 in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate liquidation preference of the shares of Series H Preferred Stock.  CSC Holdings paid cash dividends on the Series H Preferred Stock of approximately $17,712, $51,016 and $51,016 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
In September 1995, CSC Holdings issued 2,500,000 shares of its $.01 par value 11-3/4% Series H Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the "Series H Preferred Stock") with an aggregate liquidation preference of $100 per share.  CSC Holdings was required to redeem the Series H Preferred Stock on October 1, 2007 at a redemption price per share equal to the liquidation preference of $100 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. 
 
In May 2004, CSC Holdings redeemed all of its Series H Preferred Stock and its Series M Preferred Stock.  In connection with the redemptions, the Company recognized a loss of $58,170 representing the redemption premiums paid.  In addition, the Company wrote off $5,080 of unamortized deferred financing costs in connection with these redemptions.
 
In connection with the implementation of Statement 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity, on July 1, 2003, the carrying value of CSC Holdings' Series H and Series M Preferred Stock of $434,181 and $1,110,113, respectively, was classified as a liability.  In addition, beginning July 1, 2003, dividends have been classified as interest expense, increasing interest expense by $87,258 for the year ended December 31, 2003.  Prior to July 1, 2003, preferred stock dividend requirements of CSC Holdings are included in minority interests in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
NOTE 11.
                                         
INCOME TAXES
 
The Company files a consolidated federal income tax return with its 80% or more owned subsidiaries.
 
Income tax expense (benefit) attributable to continuing operations consists of the following components:
 
 
The income tax expense (benefit) attributable to continuing operations for 2004, 2003 and 2002 exclude deferred federal and state tax benefits of $813, $1,165, and $10,983, respectively, resulting from the exercise of stock options, which were credited directly to paid-in capital.
 
The income tax expense (benefit) attributable to continuing operations differs from the amount derived by applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income principally due to the effect of the following items:
 
 
At December 31, 2004, the Company had consolidated net operating loss carry forwards of approximately $3,153,641 expiring on various dates through 2024.
The Company's net operating loss carry forwards expire as follows:
 
 
The tax effects of temporary differences which give rise to significant portions of deferred tax assets or liabilities and the corresponding valuation allowance at December 31, 2004 and 2003 are as follows:
 
 
Deferred tax assets have resulted primarily from the Company's future deductible temporary differences and net operating loss carry forwards.  In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.  The Company's ability to realize its deferred tax assets depends upon the generation of
sufficient future taxable income to allow for the utilization of its net operating loss carry forwards and deductible temporary differences and tax planning strategies.  If such estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in additional income tax expense in the Company's consolidated statement of operations.  Management evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and the need for additional valuation allowances quarterly.  In 2002, the income tax benefit of the Company reflects an increase in the valuation allowance of $58,576.  At the end of the second quarter of 2002, NBC exchanged part of its interest in Rainbow Media Holdings for shares of the Company's common stock.  As a result of this exchange, Rainbow Media Holdings became a member of the consolidated federal income tax return of the Company.  The exchange was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.  Accordingly, the valuation allowance was reduced to zero, resulting in a reduction to the recorded goodwill, without any income statement benefit.  In 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded increases in the valuation allowance of $14,036 and $27,988, respectively, relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards.
 
NOTE 12.
                                         
COLLATERALIZED INDEBTEDNESS AND DERIVATIVES
 
To manage interest rate risk, the Company has from time to time entered into interest rate swap contracts to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable and fixed interest rates. Such contracts fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to provide an economic hedge against the risk of rising rates and/or convert fixed rate borrowings to variable rates to provide an economic hedge against the risk of higher borrowing costs in a declining interest rate environment.  At December 31, 2004, the Company was a party to interest rate swap agreements to pay floating rates of interest with a total notional value of $450,000 and a fair value of approximately $4,051, a net liability position.  At December 31, 2003, the Company was a party to interest rate swap agreements to pay fixed rates of interest with a total notional value of $600,000 and a fair value of approximately $349, a net liability position.  These agreements have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
 
In addition, the Company has entered into prepaid interest rate swap agreements in connection with its monetization of certain of its stock holdings, discussed below.  These contracts require the Company to pay a floating rate of interest in exchange for fixed rate interest payments, the net present value of which was paid to the Company at the contract's inception in a total amount of $239,270.  As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the total notional value of such contracts was $1,115,045 and the fair values of such contracts were $47,314 and $65,753, respectively, in a net liability position.  These agreements have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
 
The changes in the fair value of the Company's swap agreements and the net realized gains (losses) as a result of net cash interest income (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 aggregating approximately $(656), $10,420 and $115,943, respectively, are reflected in gain (loss) on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
The Company has also entered into various transactions to provide an economic hedge against equity price risk on certain of its stock holdings.  The Company had monetized all of its stock holdings in Charter Communications, Inc., Adelphia Communications Corporation, AT&T, AT&T Wireless, Comcast Corporation, General Electric Company and Leapfrog Enterprises, Inc. through the execution of prepaid forward contracts, collateralized by an equivalent amount of the respective underlying stock.  The contracts set a floor and cap on the Company's participation in the changes in the underlying stock prices and at maturity are expected to offset declines in the fair values of the underlying stock below the hedge price per share, while allowing the Company to retain upside appreciation from the hedge price per share to the cap price.  At maturity, the contracts provide for the option to deliver cash or shares of AT&T,
Comcast, Charter Communications, Adelphia Communications, General Electric or Leapfrog stock (as the case may be) with a value determined by reference to the applicable stock price at maturity.
 
The Company received cash proceeds of $330,728 in 2003 and $1,549,411 in 2001, upon execution of the prepaid forward contracts discussed above which has been reflected as collateralized indebtedness in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  In addition, the Company separately accounts for the equity derivative component of the prepaid forward contracts.  These equity derivatives have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  Therefore, the fair values of the equity derivatives of $371,856 and $524,895, at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, have been reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the net increases (decreases) in the fair value of the equity derivative component of the prepaid forward contracts of $(132,940), $(180,125) and $808,094 as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are included in gain (loss) on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.  For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company recorded a gain (loss) on investments of $135,649, $231,836 and $(865,616), respectively, representing the net increases or decreases in the fair values of all investment securities pledged as collateral for the period.  The 2004 gain includes $99,845 relating to the AT&T Wireless common stock transaction discussed below.
 
In May 2002, due to certain events relating to Adelphia Communications, the Company received early termination notices from its bank counterparties pursuant to certain monetization contracts covering 9.79 million shares of Adelphia Communications common stock.  As a result, the Company was required to repay the related collateralized indebtedness prior to maturity, net of the benefit of the related prepaid equity forward contracts in a significant gain position.  The Company made cash payments aggregating $54,813, representing the difference between the redemption value of the collateralized indebtedness and the fair market value of the prepaid equity forward contracts as of the early termination date, and 9.79 million shares of Adelphia Communications common stock that were held as collateral were returned to the Company.  In connection with the early termination, the Company recognized a loss of $17,237, representing the difference between the carrying value and the redemption value of the collateralized indebtedness, which is reflected as a loss on the extinguishment of debt in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.
 
In connection with the issuance of the Series A preferred stock to Quadrangle, the Company entered into an agreement with Quadrangle which granted Quadrangle the right to require the Company to purchase the preferred stock ("put option") for cash or through the issuance of registered equity securities of the Company, at the Company's option.  The exchange right and the put option have been accounted for as a derivative.  Accordingly, the fair value of the exchange right and the put option of $38,618 at December 31, 2003 has been reflected as a liability under derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.  The change in the fair value of the exchange right and put option of $31,709 and $38,618 for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, has been reflected as a loss on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.  In October 2003, Quadrangle exercised its put option to require CSC Holdings to purchase all of its Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock.  The parties entered into an agreement that the put price was $150,328.  The put price was paid in cash by CSC Holdings in August 2004.
 
In October 2004, the Company received $213,647 in cash in exchange for all 14.2 million shares it owned of AT&T Wireless common stock, representing the $15 share price paid in consideration of the merger between AT&T Wireless and Cingular Wireless LLC.  The shares and resultant cash exchanged for such shares had previously been pledged in support of the repayment of the collateralized debt.  As a result of that exchange, the Company's prepaid forward contracts relating to its shares of AT&T Wireless were terminated.  The termination provisions under the prepaid forward contracts required the Company to
repay the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair value of the underlying stock and equity collars.  The Company recognized a loss on the extinguishment of debt of approximately $6,076 representing the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the collateralized indebtedness.  At December 31, 2004, the Company had settled certain collateralized indebtedness with a fair value of $124,100 by releasing to the counterparty cash proceeds from the related prepaid forward contract totaling $20,100 and the cash from the merger transaction of $105,000 both of which had been pledged in settlement of the debt.  The Company received the net difference of $1,000 in cash.
 
The remaining collateralized indebtedness related to the AT&T Wireless shares was settled in February 2005 and accordingly, the balance sheet at December 31, 2004 reflects the redemption value of the collateralized indebtedness of $116,544, the fair value of the prepaid forward contracts of $8,897 and restricted cash of $108,647.  The Company received net cash proceeds of $1,000 in February 2005 upon settlement of this obligation.
 
NOTE 13.
                                         
OPERATING LEASES
 
The Company leases certain office, production, transmission, theater and event facilities under terms of leases expiring at various dates through 2027.  The leases generally provide for fixed annual rentals plus certain real estate taxes and other costs.  Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 amounted to $77,041, $80,722 and $73,945, respectively.
 
In addition, the Company rents space on utility poles for its operations.  The Company's pole rental agreements are for varying terms, and management anticipates renewals as they expire.  Pole rental expense for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 amounted to approximately $13,607, $13,225 and $12,515, respectively.
 
MSG operates Radio City Music Hall under a long-term lease.  Under the terms of the lease agreement, MSG is required to meet certain net worth, cash flow, and building utilization requirements.  In the event MSG were to fail to meet the lease requirements and was unable to remedy such defaults, the landlord could have the option of terminating the lease.
 
The minimum future annual rentals for all operating leases for continuing operations during the next five years, including pole rentals from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2009, and thereafter, at rates now in force are as follows:
 
NOTE 14.
                                         
AFFILIATE AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
Equity Method Investments
 
The following table reflects the Company's effective ownership percentages and balances of equity method investments as of December 31, 2004 and 2003:
 
 
See Note 23 for a discussion of an agreement with subsidiaries of News Corporation entered into in February 2005 which will impact our ownership interest in these entities.
(a)
                     
As discussed in Note 1, Northcoast Communications was consolidated in the first quarter of 2004 pursuant to FIN 46R.
(b)
                    
As discussed in Note 1, PVI Virtual Media Services LLC was consolidated in the second quarter of 2004 pursuant to FIN 46R.
(c)
                     
In November 2004, the Company sold its interest in New York Metro, LLC and recorded a gain on sale of approximately $2,232.
(d)
                    
 
The Company's share of the net income (loss) of these affiliates for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 is as follows:
 
 
Operating results of Fox Sports Net Bay Area and Fox Sports Net Chicago have been consolidated with those of the Company from the date of acquisition (see Note 3).
(a)
                     
As discussed in Note 1, Northcoast Communications and PVI Virtual Media Services LLC were consolidated in the first and second quarter of 2004, respectively, pursuant to FIN 46R.
(b)
                    
The following table includes certain unaudited financial information for equity method investments:
 
 
Includes amounts due to the Company from affiliates referred to below.
*
                            
 
Aggregate amounts due from and due to these affiliates at December 31, 2004 and 2003 are summarized below:
 
 
The Company provides certain transmission and production services to certain of these affiliates.  For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, approximately $1,502, $3,633, and $3,671, respectively, of revenues were earned from services provided to these entities.  Costs incurred by the Company for programming, entertainment and advertising services provided by these affiliates and included in operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 amounted to $16,186, $9,082 and $8,186, respectively.
 
Northcoast Communications
 
In August 1996, the Company entered into an agreement with Northcoast PCS, LLC and certain of its affiliates, to form a limited liability company, Northcoast Communications, to participate in the auctions conducted by the FCC for certain licenses to conduct a personal communications service ("PCS") business.  The Company holds a 49.9% interest in Northcoast Communications and certain preferential distribution rights.   In accordance with the provisions of FIN 46R, the assets and liabilities attributable to the Company's 49.9% interest in Northcoast Communications were consolidated as of March 31, 2004.  Northcoast Communications is a Delaware corporation controlled by John Dolan, who is a nephew of Charles F. Dolan and a cousin of James L. Dolan, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, respectively.
 
In May 2003, Northcoast Communications completed its sale of spectrum licenses covering 50 U.S. markets to Verizon Wireless for approximately $763,000 in cash.  Of the proceeds, approximately $51,000 was used by Northcoast Communications to retire debt.  The remaining proceeds, after payment of expenses, were distributed to the partners of Northcoast Communications, including the Company.  The Company's share of the proceeds was approximately $651,000.  All of the funds were used by the Company to repay bank debt under the Restricted Group credit facility.
 
Vendor financing for Northcoast Communications' Cleveland operation consisted of a $75,000 credit facility at its Cleveland PCS, LLC subsidiary.  This facility had no recourse to the Company or to Northcoast Communications, other than pursuant to a pledge by Northcoast Communications of the stock of Cleveland PCS and a guarantee of the payment by Northcoast Communications and Cablevision of the FCC indebtedness of the Cleveland PCS subsidiary which held the Cleveland license.  In March 2004, Northcoast Communications agreed to sell its Cleveland PCS business to an unaffiliated entity.  The sale of Cleveland PCS was consummated in July 2004.  As of December 31, 2004, both the FCC indebtedness
and the obligations of Cleveland PCS under the vendor financing were satisfied.  The Company did not record any gain or loss in connection with the sale.
 
Under a contractual agreement, the Company provided Northcoast Communications certain management services.  Pursuant to this agreement, the Company recorded management fees of $1,783 in 2002.
 
Other Affiliates and Related Parties
 
During 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company provided services to or incurred costs on behalf of other affiliates.  Aggregate amounts due from and due to these affiliates at December 31, 2004 and 2003 are summarized below:
 
 
Fox Sports Net Ohio and Cleveland Indians Baseball Club Limited Partnership (the "Indians") are parties to a multi-year rights agreement under which Fox Sports Net Ohio pays license fees to the Indians in exchange for telecast rights to substantially all regular season Indians games.  The Indians are owned by (i) Lawrence Dolan, a brother of Charles F. Dolan, the Company's Chairman, (ii) a trust, the beneficiaries of which are Lawrence Dolan and certain descendants of Lawrence Dolan, and (iii) certain other trusts, the beneficiaries of which are certain descendants of Charles F. Dolan, including James L. Dolan, the Company's Chief Executive Officer, and Thomas C. Dolan and Patrick F. Dolan, officers of the Company and brothers of James L. Dolan and a trust whose discretionary beneficiaries include Brian Sweeney, son-in-law of Charles F. Dolan, brother-in-law of James L. Dolan and a director.  Management control of the Indians is held by Lawrence Dolan.
 
NOTE 15.
                                         
BENEFIT PLANS
 
The Company has a Cash Balance Retirement Plan (the "Retirement Plan") for the benefit of employees other than those of the theater business.  Under the Retirement Plan, the Company will credit a certain percentage of eligible base pay into an account established for each participant which will earn a market based rate of return annually.
 
The Company uses a December 31 measurement date for the Retirement Plan.
 
Components of the net periodic pension cost for the Retirement Plan for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, are as follows:
 
The funded status and the amounts recorded on the Company's balance sheet for the Retirement Plan at December 31, 2004 and 2003, are as follows:
 
 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic cost for years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 are as follows:
 
 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31, 2004 and 2003 are as follows:
 
 
The Retirement Plan's expected rate of return on plan assets is based on the portfolio of assets as a whole and not on the sum of the returns on individual asset investments.
 
The weighted average asset allocation of the Company's Retirement Plan at December 31, 2004 and 2003 was as follows:
 
The Retirement Plan's investment objective is to invest in portfolios that would obtain a market rate of return throughout economic cycles, commensurate with the investment risk and cash flow needs of the Retirement Plan.  This allows the Retirement Plan to subject a portion of its assets to increased risk to generate a greater rate of return.  The Retirement Plan addresses diversification by the use of investment portfolios whose underlying investments are in domestic and international equity securities and domestic fixed income securities.  The investments in each portfolio are readily marketable and can be sold to fund benefit payment obligations of the Retirement Plan as they become payable.
 
The Company expects to contribute $26,000 to the Retirement Plan in 2005.
 
The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid:
 
 
The Company also maintains 401(k) savings plans, pursuant to which an employee can contribute a percentage of eligible annual compensation, as defined.  The Company also makes matching cash contributions for a portion of employee contributions to the 401(k) savings plans. The cost associated with the 401(k) savings plans for continuing operations was approximately $13,321, $12,938 and $13,399 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
The Company maintains the CSSC Supplemental Benefit Plan (the "Supplemental Plan") for the benefit of certain officers and employees of the Company.  As part of the Supplemental Plan, the Company established a nonqualified defined benefit pension plan, which provides that, upon attaining normal retirement age, a participant will receive a benefit equal to a specified percentage of the participant's average compensation, as defined.  All participants are 100% vested in the Supplemental Plan.  Net periodic pension cost was $337, $671 and $453 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the projected benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of Supplemental Plan assets by approximately $1,002 and $1,090, respectively.
 
MSG sponsors non-contributory pension plans covering certain MSG employees.  Benefits payable to retirees under these plans are based upon years of service and, for certain plans, participants' compensation and are funded through trusts established under the plans.  Plan assets are invested primarily in common stocks, bonds, United States government securities and cash.  At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the accrued benefit cost amounted to $17,538 and $16,150, respectively, and for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, net periodic pension cost amounted to $4,777, $4,124 and $3,245, respectively.
 
In addition, MSG contributes to various multiemployer defined benefit pension plans.  Contributions made to these multiemployer plans for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 amounted to $5,516, $3,178 and $3,052, respectively.
 
In addition, MSG maintains a nonfunded, nonqualified defined benefit pension plan for the benefit of certain employees of MSG who participate in the plan.  This plan provides that, upon retirement, a participant will receive a benefit based on a formula which reflects the participant's compensation.  Net periodic pension cost for the plan was $1,318, $2,053 and $1,899 for the years ended December 31, 2004,
2003 and 2002, respectively.  At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the projected obligation was $12,253 and $11,697, respectively.
 
MSG also sponsors a welfare plan which provides certain postretirement health care benefits to certain MSG employees and their dependents.  The welfare plan is insured through a managed care provider and MSG funds these benefits with premium payments.  For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the periodic postretirement benefit cost amounted to $545, $429 and $430, respectively, and as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the accrued benefit cost amounted to $7,128 and $6,802, respectively.
 
NOTE 16.
                                         
STOCK BENEFIT AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS
 
Stock Benefit Plans
 
The Company has an Employee Stock Plan (the "1985 Stock Plan") under which the Company is authorized to issue a maximum of 14,000,000 shares.  Pursuant to its terms, no awards could be granted under the 1985 Stock Plan after December 5, 1995.  Under the 1985 Stock Plan, the Company granted incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, stock grants and stock bonus awards.  The exercise price of stock options could not be less than the fair market value per share of Class A common stock on the date the option was granted and the options could expire no longer than ten years from date of grant.  Stock appreciation rights provide for the employee to receive a cash payment in an amount equal to the difference between the fair market value of the stock as of the date the right is exercised, and the exercise price.
 
The Company also has an Employee Stock Plan (the "Employee Stock Plan"), under which the Company is authorized to issue a maximum of 39,941,045 shares of CNYG common stock.  As of December 31, 2004, 21,366,137 shares of CNYG common stock were available for future grant under the Employee Stock Plan.  Under the Employee Stock Plan, the Company is able to grant incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, conjunctive and alternative stock appreciation rights, stock grants and bonus award shares.  The other terms of the Employee Stock Plan are substantially identical to those of the 1985 Stock Plan, except that under the Employee Stock Plan, the Compensation Committee has the authority, in its discretion, to add performance criteria as a condition to any employee's exercise of an award granted under the Employee Stock Plan.  Options and stock appreciation rights granted in 2004, 2003 and 2002 generally vest in 33-1/3 annual increments beginning one year from the date of grant.
 
In January 2003, the Company offered employees the right to exchange stock options and stock appreciation rights outstanding under the Employee Stock Plan, which had an exercise price of $20.00 or more, for restricted shares.  Employees who accepted the offer received one restricted share for every two common shares issuable upon exercise of his or her options and one restricted share for every three common shares subject to his or her stock appreciation rights.  Compensation expense relating to the restricted shares is recognized over the four-year vesting period, equal to the excess of the restricted shares' value on the grant date of $17.54 per share over the par value amount paid for the shares of $0.01 per share.  Pursuant to the offer, a total of 8,722,278 options and 6,236,850 stock appreciation rights were exchanged for a total of 6,440,831 shares of restricted stock.  Options not exchanged pursuant to the offer are subject to variable accounting until exercised or forfeited.
 
The Company also has a Non-Employee Director Plan (the "Non-Employee Director Plan"), under which the Company is authorized to issue a maximum of 757,912 shares of common stock.  Under the Non-Employee Director Plan, the Company is able to grant stock options or restricted stock units at an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares on the date of the option grant.  As of December 31, 2004, 229,659 shares of common stock were available for future grant under the Non-Employee Director Plan.
As a result of stock awards, bonus awards, and stock appreciation rights, the Company recorded expense (income) for continuing operations, reflecting vesting schedules for applicable grants as well as fluctuations in the market price of the underlying stock in the amount of $34,314, $42,450 and $(41,210) for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
Stock transactions under the 1985 Stock Plan, the Employee Stock Plan and the Non-Employee Director Plan are as follows:
 
CNYG Common Stock Options
 
RMG Common Stock Options
 
 
In connection with the August 20, 2002 exchange of Rainbow Media Group common stock for Cablevision NY Group common stock, each option to purchase a share of Rainbow Media Group common stock was exchanged for an option to purchase 1.19093 shares of Cablevision NY Group common stock.
 
The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable options at December 31, 2004:
 
CNYG Common Stock Options
 
 
Long-Term Incentive Plan
 
executives have also received performance retention awards under the plan, vesting over 7 years.  The terms of the performance retention award provided that the executive could have requested a loan from the Company in the amount of the award prior to its vesting, subject to certain limitations, provided that such loan was secured by a lien in favor of the Company on property owned by the executive.  Effective July 30, 2002, such requests for advances on amounts of awards are no longer permitted.  Imputed interest to those executives on these interest free loans amounted to $1,353, $1,732 and $1,320, respectively for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.  As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, $27,270 and $43,045, respectively, was outstanding in respect of advances made pursuant to this plan.  In connection with the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Company has recorded expense for continuing operations of $12,632, $19,541 and $23,501 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Pursuant to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, certain executives have been granted cash awards that vest over varying periods, some of which are performance based.  Certain
In addition, in 2003, the Company granted certain management employees cash awards that vest when the Company reaches certain performance goals.  Such awards are being amortized ratably over the period in which the Company is expected to achieve these goals, and accordingly recorded expense of $18,868 and $16,492 in respect of this award in 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
NOTE 17.              COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
The Company, through Rainbow Media Holdings, has entered into several contracts, including rights agreements with professional sports teams and others relating to cable television programming.  In addition, Rainbow Media Holdings, through MSG, has employment agreements with players, general managers and coaches of its professional sports teams.  The contracts provide for payments which are guaranteed regardless of injury or termination.  Certain of these contracts are covered by disability insurance if certain conditions are met.  The future cash payments reflected below do not include the impact of potential insurance recoveries or amounts which may be due to the National Basketball Association ("NBA") for luxury tax payments.  Future cash payments required under these contracts as of December 31, 2004, including certain other unconditional purchase obligations pursuant to contracts entered into in the normal course of business, are as follows:
 
 
At December 31, 2004, approximately $60,919 of commitments included in the table above, relating primarily to sports teams' and broadcast personnel contracts have been accrued and are reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
 
In April 2004, Rainbow DBS entered into a ten-year lease agreement with SES Americom for transponder space on a satellite, commencing in October 2004.  Rainbow Media Holdings provided irrevocable letters of credit for $19,800 as a security deposit.  Rainbow DBS will initially lease 13 transponders, increasing to 16 in January 2005, with the option of leasing additional transponders.  The agreement contains early termination provisions whereby Rainbow DBS would be permitted on certain dates and in certain circumstances to terminate the agreement.  In the event of early termination, Rainbow DBS would be required to pay an early termination penalty.  In addition, Rainbow DBS would be required to make payments pursuant to the agreement up to the termination date.
 
In addition, approximately $242,832 of sports programming rights commitments are excluded from the table above as they relate to Fox Sports Net Florida and Fox Sports Net Ohio and were transferred to News Corporation in connection with the restructuring of Regional Programming Partners discussed in Note 23.
 
At December 31, 2004, the Company had outstanding guarantees of approximately $20,353 consisting primarily of guarantees issued by CSC Holdings in favor of certain financial institutions in respect of ongoing interest expense obligations and potential early termination events in connection with the monetization of the Company's holdings of Charter Communications, Inc., General Electric Company, and Adelphia Communications Corporation common stock by certain of its subsidiaries that are not included in the Restricted Group.  Such guarantees are in effect over the life of the underlying monetization contracts.  Amounts payable under such monetization guarantees are estimated as of a
particular point in time by the financial institution counterparty and are based upon the current price of the underlying common stock and various other assumptions, including stock market volatility and prevailing interest rates. Such guaranteed amounts approximate the fair value of the monetization indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and the equity collar as reflected in the Company's accompanying balance sheet, plus accrued interest.
 
In addition to the above amounts, MSG may also be obligated to pay the NBA a luxury tax in each year pursuant to the NBA/NBPA collective bargaining agreement, which is in effect through June 30, 2005.  The ultimate calculation of any amount due would be based on a formula established by the agreement.  The tax is based on the amount by which the team's salary, as defined in the agreement, exceeds a luxury tax "trigger."
 
Many of the Company's franchise agreements and utility pole leases require the Company to remove its cable wires and other equipment upon termination of the respective agreements.  The Company has concluded that the fair value of these asset retirement obligations cannot be reasonably estimated since the range of potential settlement dates is not determinable.
 
NOTE 18.
LEGAL MATTERS
                                         
 
The Company is party to various lawsuits, some involving substantial amounts.  Although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, management does not believe that the resolution of these lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations or liquidity of the Company.
 
At Home
 
On April 25, 2001, At Home Corporation commenced a lawsuit in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware alleging that Cablevision had breached its obligations under certain agreements with At Home.  The suit sought a variety of remedies including:  rescission of the agreements between At Home and Cablevision and cancellation of all warrants held by Cablevision, damages, and/or an order prohibiting Cablevision from continuing to offer its Optimum Online service and requiring it to convert its Optimum Online customers to the Optimum@Home service and to roll out the Optimum@Home service.  On September 28, 2001, At Home filed a petition for reorganization in federal bankruptcy court.  In connection with the liquidation of At Home, the claims in this lawsuit, among others, were assigned to the General Unsecured Creditors Liquidated Trust ("GUCLT").
 
On June 26, 2003, the GUCLT initiated a separate action against Cablevision in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.  The California action stemmed from a May 1997 agreement between Cablevision and At Home that is no longer in effect.  The GUCLT sought monetary damages due to the claimed failure by Cablevision to make alleged required payments to At Home during the 2001 calendar year.
 
In December 2004, the parties reached a final settlement in the California action.  A dismissal of all claims with prejudice was entered on December 17, 2004.
On July 29, 2003, based on an agreed Stipulation filed jointly by Cablevision and the GUCLT, the Court dismissed the Delaware action with prejudice, other than solely with respect to the specific claims brought by the GUCLT in the California action. 
YES Network
 
On April 29, 2002, Yankees Entertainment & Sports Network, LLC (the "YES Network") filed a complaint and, on September 24, 2002, an amended complaint against the Company in the United States District Court, Southern District of New York.  The lawsuit arose from the failure of the YES Network and the Company to reach agreement on the carriage of programming of the YES Network (primarily New York Yankees baseball games and New Jersey Nets basketball games) on the Company's cable television systems.  The amended complaint alleged a variety of anticompetitive acts and sought declaratory judgments as to violations of laws, treble damages and injunctive relief, including an injunction requiring the Company to carry the YES Network on its cable television systems.  The Company believes that the claims set forth in the complaint were without merit.  On June 28, 2004, a stipulated Order was entered dismissing all claims with prejudice.
 
On March 31, 2003, YES Network and Cablevision reached an agreement pursuant to which Cablevision began carrying programming of the YES Network.  Under this agreement, Cablevision agreed to carry the YES Network programming for one year under interim arrangements while the parties sought to finalize the terms of a definitive long-term affiliation agreement and/or submitted the matter to arbitration.  The matter was ultimately submitted to arbitration.  The hearing before the arbitration panel ended in March 2004 and, through the arbitrators' decision and a new written agreement by the parties, established the terms for a definitive long-term affiliation agreement that is effective retroactively to March 31, 2003.
 
As part of the original March 31, 2003 agreement, Cablevision paid YES Network for certain revenue reductions that YES Network experienced while the interim agreement was in place, under the "most favored nations" provisions of YES Network's affiliation agreements with certain other distributors.   On November 19, 2004, the parties entered into a subsequent agreement pursuant to which YES Network refunded to Cablevision approximately 60% of such prior payments and the parties provided each other with mutual releases with respect to the interim agreement.
 
Tracking Stock Litigation
 
The action was stayed by agreement of the parties pending resolution of a related action brought by one of the plaintiffs to compel the inspection of certain books and records of the Company.  On October 26, 2004, the parties entered into a stipulation dismissing the related action, and providing for the Company's production of certain documents.  On December 13, 2004, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint.  The Company has filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint, which is currently pending before the court.
In August 2002, purported class actions naming as defendants the Company and each of its directors were filed in the Delaware Chancery Court.  The actions, which allege breach of fiduciary duties and breach of contract with respect to the exchange of the Rainbow Media Group tracking stock for Cablevision NY Group common stock, were purportedly brought on behalf of all holders of publicly traded shares of Rainbow Media Group tracking stock.  The actions sought to (i) enjoin the exchange of Rainbow Media Group tracking stock for Cablevision NY Group common stock, (ii) enjoin any sales of "Rainbow Media Group assets," or, in the alternative, award rescissory damages, (iii) if the exchange is completed, rescind it or award rescissory damages, (iv) award compensatory damages, and (v) award costs and disbursements.  The actions were consolidated into one action on September 17, 2002, and on October 3, 2002, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated action. 
 
In August 2003, a purported class action naming as defendants the Company, directors and officers of the Company and certain current and former officers and employees of the Company's Rainbow Media Holdings and American Movie Classics subsidiaries was filed in New York Supreme Court by the Teachers Retirement System of Louisiana.  The actions relate to the August 2002 Rainbow Media Group
 
tracking stock exchange and allege, among other things, that the exchange ratio was based upon a price of the Rainbow Media Group tracking stock that was artificially deflated as a result of the improper recognition of certain expenses at the national services division of Rainbow Media Holdings.  The complaint alleges breaches by the individual defendants of fiduciary duties.  The complaint also alleges breaches of contract and unjust enrichment by the Company.  The complaint seeks monetary damages and such other relief as the court deems just and proper.  On October 31, 2003, the Company and other defendants moved to stay the action in favor of the previously filed actions pending in Delaware or, in the alternative, to dismiss for failure to state a claim.  On June 10, 2004, the court stayed the action on the basis of the previously filed action in Delaware.  The Teachers Retirement System of Louisiana has filed a motion to vacate the stay in the New York action, and has simultaneously filed a motion to intervene in the Delaware action and to stay that action.  The Company has opposed both motions.  The Company believes the claims in both the Delaware action and the New York action are without merit and is contesting the lawsuits vigorously.
 
Time Warner Litigation
 
On November 14, 2003, American Movie Classics Company filed an action against Time Warner Entertainment, L.P. in New York State Supreme Court for declaratory relief and damages caused by Time Warner's anticipatory repudiation of its cable television affiliation agreement with American Movie Classics.  American Movie Classics filed that action as a result of Time Warner's notice purporting to terminate the contract based upon Time Warner's allegation that American Movie Classics had changed its programming.  The Company believes the notice was improper.  American Movie Classics is seeking a declaratory judgment that it is entitled to full performance of the agreement, and, at its option, is entitled to rescind the agreement and recover damages.  Time Warner filed an answer and counterclaims in December 2003 seeking, among other things, a declaratory judgment as to its right to terminate the affiliation agreement, an injunction requiring American Movie Classics to deliver a classic films channel and damages for an alleged breach of contract.  Trial is currently scheduled for May 2005.  The Company believes that Time Warner's counterclaims are without merit and is contesting them vigorously.
 
The Wiz Bankruptcy
 
, Inc. (TW), a former subsidiary of the Company and operator of The Wiz consumer retail electronics business, is the subject of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware.  In February 2005, TW filed a complaint in the bankruptcy proceeding seeking recovery of alleged preferential transfers in the aggregate amount of $193,457.  Also in February 2005, the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of TW, Inc. (the Committee) filed a motion seeking authority to assume the prosecution of TW's alleged preference claims and to prosecute certain other causes of action.  The bankruptcy court granted the Creditors Committees motion on or about March 10, 2005, thereby authorizing the Committee, on behalf of TW, to continue the preference suit and to assert other claims against the Company.  On March 12, 2005, the Creditors Committee filed a complaint in the bankruptcy court against the Company, certain of its subsidiaries, and certain present and former officers and directors, asserting preferential transfer claims allegedly totaling $193,312 as well as various other claims.  The Company believes that all the claims asserted by TW and the Committee are without merit and intends to contest them vigorously.
TW
 
Director Litigation
 
Cablevision has been named as a nominal defendant in a purported shareholder derivative complaint filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware.  The action is brought derivatively on behalf of Cablevision and names as additional defendants Charles F. Dolan, the Chairman of Cablevision, and
Rand Araskog, Frank Biondi, John Malone and Leonard Tow, each of whom was appointed as a director on March 2, 2005 by Mr. Dolan and certain other holders of the Company's Class B Common Stock.  The complaint alleges that Charles F. Dolan, as the controlling Class B shareholder of Cablevision, by purporting to remove three Cablevision Board members (William J. Bell, Sheila Mahony and Steven Rattner) and replace them with the four new directors, wrongfully interfered with the Board's role in managing the affairs of Cablevision and sought to substitute his judgment of how to proceed with the VOOM service of Cablevision's Rainbow DBS subsidiary above that of the Board.  The action seeks, among other things, to preliminarily and permanently enjoin Charles F. Dolan from interfering with the managerial prerogatives of Cablevision's Board; rescinding the purported appointment of the new directors; rescinding the removal of Mr. Bell, Ms. Mahony and Mr. Rattner as directors and restoring them to their positions as directors and directing Charles F. Dolan to account to Cablevision for its damages.
 
New York Jets Litigation
 
On March 16, 2005, the New York Jets LLC and Jets Development LLC ("Jets") filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Cablevision, CSC Holdings, Inc., and Madison Square Garden LP.  The complaint relates to various actions allegedly taken by defendants in connection with a proposed football stadium for the Jets on the West Side of Manhattan.  Specifically, the complaint alleges:  (1) that Cablevision "possesses monopoly power in the markets for facility rental and ticket sales for large-scale events in enclosed spectator facilities and suite rentals in Manhattan" and has acted anti-competitively in violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act; (2) that defendants have tortiously interfered with the Jets' prospective business relations by making a "sham bid" for the MTA land that is the site of the proposed stadium "to injure the Jets and deprive them of an advantageous existing and prospective business relationship"; (3) that defendants have tortiously interfered with the Jets' prospective business relations with networks carried on defendants' cable system; and (4) that defendants have "engaged in deceptive and misleading conduct, including dissemination of deceptive and materially misleading advertising and preventing dissemination of accurate information," in violation of  New York General Business Law Section 349.  The Company believes that all these claims are without merit and intends to contest them vigorously.
 
Accounting Related Investigations
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York continue to conduct investigations into matters related to the improper expense recognition previously reported by the Company.  In July 2004, in connection with the Company's response to the comments of the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the Securities and Exchange Commission on the Company's filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company provided information with respect to certain of its previous restatement adjustments relating to the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements.  The staff of the Division of Enforcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission has contacted the Company to ask for additional information on these launch support, marketing and other payments.
 
NOTE 19.
                                         
DISCLOSURES ABOUT THE FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash, Accounts Receivable Trade, Notes and Other Receivables, Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets, Advances to Affiliates, Notes Receivable- Affiliates, Accounts Payable, Accounts Payable- Affiliates and Accrued Liabilities.
 
The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
 
Derivative Contracts and Liabilities Under Derivative Contracts
 
Derivative contracts are carried at fair value based on dealer quotes.
 
Investment Securities and Investment Securities Pledged as Collateral
 
Marketable securities are carried at their fair value based upon quoted market prices.
 
Bank Debt, Collateralized Indebtedness, Senior Notes and Debentures, Subordinated Notes and Debentures and Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock of CSC Holdings
 
The fair values of each of the Company's debt instruments and redeemable preferred stock of CSC Holdings are based on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for instruments of the same remaining maturities.
 
Interest Rate Swap Agreements
 
Interest rate swap agreements are carried at fair value based on valuations provided by a derivative valuation system using current market interest rate data.  These values represent the estimated amount the Company would receive or pay to terminate agreements, taking into consideration current interest rates.
 
The fair value of the Company's debt instruments are summarized as follows:
 
 
 
The Company currently consolidates a 60% majority-owned interest in a limited-life partnership.  The estimated liquidation value of the 40% minority interest is approximately $1,453,200 and $1,128,900 as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively compared to the carrying value of such minority interest of $676,647 and $578,780, respectively.
 
Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market information and information about the financial instrument. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
 
NOTE 20.
                                         
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
The Company classifies its business interests into three segments: Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of its consumer video, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol and its commercial data and voice services operations; Rainbow, consisting principally of interests in national and regional cable television programming networks including the VOOM 21 high definition channels, and Madison Square Garden, which owns and operates professional sports teams, regional cable television networks and an entertainment business.   In connection with the transaction discussed in Note 23, the VOOM 21 high definition channels have been included in the Rainbow segment.  Those channels were previously included in the Rainbow DBS segment.  Prior period segment information has been reported on a comparable basis.
 
The Company's reportable segments are strategic business units that are managed separately.  The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment adjusted operating cash flow (defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization, stock plan income or expense and restructuring charges or credits).  The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant
policies.  Information as to the operations of the Company's business segments is set forth below.
accounting
 
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment amounts to the Company's consolidated balances is as follows:
 
 
Substantially all revenues and assets of the Company's reportable segments are attributed to or located in the United States primarily concentrated in the New York metropolitan area.
 
NOTE 21.
              INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
The following is a summary of selected quarterly financial data for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003:
 
2004:
 
 
First quarter 2004 results include an extraordinary loss on investment, net of tax of $7,436 or $(0.03) per share (see Note 3).
 
2003:
 
 
NOTE 22.
              OTHER MATTERS
 
In the second quarter of 2004, Madison Square Garden received $54,052 in cash in connection with the New York Mets' notice of termination of their broadcast rights agreement with Madison Square Garden.  The termination of the rights agreement was effective after the 2005 baseball season. As a result of the termination notice, the Company recorded a reversal of a purchase accounting liability of $41,788 related to this broadcast rights agreement.  These items have been reflected as other operating income in the Company's consolidated statement of operations.
 
The parties failed to reach an agreement after several negotiating sessions and on February 16, 2005, the NHL announced that it had cancelled the 2004/2005 season.  We can give no assurance as to when the labor dispute will be resolved and therefore cannot determine the extent to which our 2005 operating results will be negatively impacted.  However, while a continued lockout could
Effective September 16, 2004 the National Hockey League ("NHL") commenced a lockout of the players in support of its attempt to reach a new collective bargaining agreement with the National Hockey League Players Association.
a significant adverse impact on Madison Square Garden's operating results, we do not believe it would have a significant adverse impact on the Company's consolidated operating results.
have
 
In October 2004, Fox Sports Net Chicago's agreements with two major suppliers of distribution rights to certain live sporting events were terminated.  Fox Sports Net Chicago is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regional Programming Partners.  Fox Sports Net Chicago expects to continue its operations with content from its partners and their affiliates.  Fox Sports Net Chicago's revenues will decline in future periods as a result of the termination by two of its significant customers that declined to carry Fox Sports Net Chicago without these distribution rights agreements.
 
In December 2004, the Company's Board of Directors decided to suspend pursuing the spin-off and instead to pursue strategic alternatives for the Rainbow DBS business.  See Note 23.
 
NOTE 23.
              SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (as of June 3, 2005)
 
Rainbow DBS
 
In January 2005, the Company's Board of Directors authorized and directed the sale of the assets of Rainbow DBS and the shutdown of its business.  On January 20, 2005, Rainbow DBS entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Rainbow 1 direct broadcast satellite and certain other related assets to a subsidiary of EchoStar Communications Corp. for $200,000 in cash.  This transaction is expected to close following receipt of regulatory approvals.  In February 2005, the Company signed a letter of intent under which VOOM HD, LLC, a new private company formed by Charles F. Dolan and Thomas C. Dolan, would acquire from the Company the business, assets and liabilities of the Company's Rainbow DBS satellite business not included in the above mentioned agreement with EchoStar.  The letter of intent between the Company and VOOM HD expired on February 28, 2005 without a definitive agreement being reached.
 
Following the expiration of the letter of intent, the Company began shutting down the Rainbow DBS operations.  In March 2005, the Company entered into an agreement with Charles F. Dolan and Thomas C. Dolan ("March 2005 Agreement") pursuant to which the parties agreed to work cooperatively to finalize the separation of Rainbow DBS from the Company.  The Company agreed that no new shutdown activities would be undertaken at Rainbow DBS during the term of the agreement.  Charles F. Dolan agreed to fund any expenditures above those contemplated in the shutdown budget, net of March revenue earned and was required to provide to the Company cash or shares of the Company's common stock in advance of the Company making those expenditures.  Similarly, if Rainbow DBS made any new commitments or other agreements, the Company would segregate cash or shares received from Charles F. Dolan to pay the costs associated with those actions.  In March 2005, Charles F. Dolan deposited $15,000 with the Company in accordance with the March 2005 agreement.  This agreement terminated on March 31, 2005 and, in accordance with its terms, the distribution business of Rainbow DBS has been shutdown.  The Board of Directors, at a meeting on April 7, 2005, confirmed its shutdown decision and instructed management to continue to analyze whether its VOOM 21 channels could be marketed to other satellite and cable providers as part of the Company's Rainbow programming operations.  In connection with the shutdown, the Company anticipates incurring significant costs relating to early termination of various contracts, other contractual obligations, employee termination benefits and other costs.  These costs are currently estimated to range from $100,000 to $130,000.  The current estimated range of costs associated with our shutdown and exit from the Rainbow DBS distribution business is based on facts and assumptions currently known to us, but actual future shutdown and exit related costs may deviate from the current range of estimate and such deviations could be significant.  The estimated shutdown costs do not include the settlement of liabilities of the Rainbow DBS distribution business recorded on our balance
at March 31, 2005 of $45,800.  The Company does not expect the shutdown costs to have a material impact on its liquidity position as it is expected that these costs will be funded by the proceeds from the sale of the Rainbow 1 direct broadcast satellite to Echostar for $200,000.
sheet
 
Cash deposited by Charles F. Dolan under the March 2005 Agreement that is not used to fund costs or segregated to pay costs associated with new commitments or other agreements will be returned to him.  This estimated amount has been included in accounts payable to affiliates in the Company's consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2005.  Cash which has been and will be used to fund the incremental costs of the Rainbow DBS distribution business, net of its revenue earned that reduced the amount Charles F. Dolan was required to fund in accordance with the March 2005 Agreement, has been recorded as a deemed net equity contribution in the first quarter of 2005.  Such amounts are estimates and subject to revision upon final analysis of such amounts.
 
Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida
 
In April 2005, the Company and News Corporation restructured their ownership of Regional Programming Partners.  Regional Programming Partners was owned 60% by the Company and 40% by News Corporation.  As a result of the restructuring, the Company now owns 100% of Madison Square Garden, 100% of Fox Sports Net Chicago and 50% of Fox Sports Net New England.  In connection with the restructuring, these businesses extended the terms of their long-term affiliation agreements with Fox Sports Net and their advertising representation agreements with National Advertising Partners.
 
In connection with its December 2003 purchase of the interests that it did not own in Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area, subsidiaries of Regional Programming Partners issued promissory notes in the aggregate amount of $150,000 to News Corporation.  As part of the restructuring, those promissory notes were contributed by News Corporation to Regional Programming Partners for no additional consideration and were cancelled without any payment being made on them.
 
Fox Sports Net and National Advertising Partners were owned 50% by the Company and 50% by News Corporation.  As a result of the restructuring, News Corporation now owns 100% of Fox Sports Net and National Advertising Partners, as well as Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida.
 
The Company and News Corporation will continue to own 60% and 40%, respectively, of Fox Sports Net Bay Area through a separate partnership.  The Company will continue to manage that network.  In connection with the restructuring, Fox Sports Net Bay Area extended the terms of its long-term affiliation agreement with Fox Sports Net and its advertising representation agreement with National Advertising Partners.
 
The Company will account for this exchange in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions and, accordingly, the Company will record the transaction with News Corporation at fair value at the date of acquisition.  The estimated fair values are currently being evaluated and to the extent that the purchase price exceeds the fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired, such excess will be allocated to goodwill.  In addition, the Company currently expects to record a gain in connection with this transaction in the second quarter of 2005.
 
Reclassifications
 
As a result of the shutdown of the Rainbow DBS distribution business and the Regional Programming Partners restructuring discussed above, the Company has reclassified certain assets and liabilities as held
sale on the consolidated balance sheets and operating results of the Rainbow DBS distribution business and Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida have been reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. See Note 6.
for
 
In addition, the VOOM 21 high definition channels have been included in the Rainbow segment.  Those channels were previously included in the Rainbow DBS segment.  Prior period segment information has been reported on a comparable basis.  See Note 20.
 
Transaction
EchoStar
 
In April 2005, subsidiaries of Cablevision and CSC Holdings entered into agreements with EchoStar relating to the launch and operation of the business of Rainbow HD Holdings, LLC, the Company's VOOM 21 high-definition television programming service.  Under those arrangements, EchoStar will initially distribute a portion of the Rainbow HD programming service and, beginning in 2006, if the contemplated transactions have been completed, will carry all 21 of the channels included in the Rainbow HD programming service.  In connection with the arrangements, EchoStar would be issued a 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings, the Company's subsidiary owning the 21 channels included in the Rainbow HD programming service, and that 20% interest would not be diluted until $500,000 in cash has been invested in Rainbow HD Holdings.  The issuance of the 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings to EchoStar and EchoStar's agreement to distribute all 21 of the channels included in the Rainbow HD programming service are subject to customary closing conditions, and the closing of the sale of the Company's Rainbow 1 satellite to EchoStar.
 
Under the terms of our affiliation arrangements with EchoStar covering our VOOM 21 high definition channels for a 15 year term, if we fail to invest $100,000 per year up to a maximum of $500,000 in the aggregate (which $100,000 amount may be reduced to no less than $38,000 if we decide in the future to reduce the number of channels) in the entity that owns and develops these channels, EchoStar may terminate the affiliation agreement.  We have the right to terminate the affiliation agreement if the VOOM 21 service is discontinued in the future.
 
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholder
CSC
Holdings, Inc.:
 
We have audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying that CSC Holdings, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).CSC Holdings, Inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
In our opinion, management's assessment that CSC Holdings, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).Also, in our opinion, CSC Holdings, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
 
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of CSC Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholder's deficiency, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, and our report dated March 16, 2005, except for Note 23, which is as of June 3, 2005,expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.  Our report refers to the adoption of the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 150, in the year ended December 31, 2003.
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity,
 
 
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholder
CSC
Holdings, Inc.:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of CSC Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholder's deficiency, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004.  In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also audited the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2).  These consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and the financial statement scheduled based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of CSC Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
As discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 150, in the year ended December 31, 2003.
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity,
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of CSC Holdings, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 16, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1.
                SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
The Company and Related Matters
 
Holdings, Inc. ("CSC Holdings" or the "Company"), is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision").  The Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries own and operate cable television systems and through its subsidiary, Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, have ownership interests in companies that produce and distribute national and regional entertainment and sports programming services, including Madison Square Garden, L.P. ("MSG").  The Company also owns companies that provide advertising sales services for the cable television industry, provide telephone service, operate motion picture theaters and provide direct broadcast satellite service. The Company classifies its business interests into three segments: Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of its consumer video, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol and our commercial data and voice services operations; Rainbow, consisting principally of interests in national and regional cable television programming networks, including our VOOM 21 high definition channels; and Madison Square Garden, which owns and operates professional sports teams, regional cable television networks and an entertainment business.
CSC
 
Principles of Consolidation
 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries and certain variable interest entities pursuant to FIN 46R (see discussion below).  All significant intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
The Company recognizes cable television, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol,  and telephony revenues as the services are provided to subscribers.  Installation revenue for our video, consumer high-speed data and Voice over Internet Protocol services is recognized as installations are completed, as direct selling costs have exceeded this revenue in all periods reported.  The Company classifies amounts billed to our customers for local franchise fees as a component of revenue.
 
Our programming businesses recognize affiliate fees from cable and satellite providers as the programming is provided.  Advertising revenues are recognized when commercials are telecast.  In some situations, our programming businesses guarantee certain viewer ratings for their programming.  For these types of transactions, a portion of such revenue is deferred if the guaranteed viewer ratings are not met and is subsequently recognized by providing additional advertising time.
 
Revenues derived from other sources are recognized when services are provided or events occur.
 
Technical and Operating Expense
 
Costs of revenue related to sales of services are classified as "technical and operating" expenses in the accompanying statements of operations.
 
Advertising Expenses
 
Advertising costs are charged to expense when incurred.  Advertising costs for continuing operations amounted to $196,841, $180,046 and $148,055 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
Restricted Cash
 
Restricted cash at December 31, 2004 includes approximately $108,600 received in exchange for shares the Company owned of AT&T Wireless ("AWE") common stock, representing the $15 share price paid in consideration of the merger between AWE and Cingular Wireless LLC.  This restricted cash was used to settle the outstanding collateralized indebtedness relating to these shares subsequent to December 31, 2004.
 
escrow account required by the National Hockey League, restricted cash required by certain operating agreements and cash collateralized letters of credit aggregating approximately $14,800 for the Madison Square Garden segment.
Restricted cash at December 31, 2004 also included approximately $21,000 of cash collateralized letters of credit entered into by the Rainbow segment for certain programming and operating lease commitments.  In addition, restricted cash includes an
 
Accounts Receivable
 
The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of valuation allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable by evaluating general factors such as length of time individual receivables are past due, historical collection experience, and the economic and competitive environment.
 
Investments
 
Investment securities and investment securities pledged as collateral are classified as trading securities and are stated at fair value with unrealized holding gains and losses included in net income (loss).
 
The Company's interests in less than majority-owned entities in which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies of the investee are accounted for under the equity method. Equity method investments are recorded at original cost and adjusted to recognize the Company's proportionate share of the investees' net income or losses, additional contributions made and distributions received.  The Company would recognize a loss where there existed an other than temporary decline in the value of the investment.
 
Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets
 
Property, plant and equipment, including construction materials, are carried at cost, and include all direct costs and certain indirect costs associated with the construction of cable television transmission and distribution systems, and the costs of new product and subscriber installations.  Equipment under capital leases is recorded at the present value of the total minimum lease payments.  Depreciation on equipment is calculated on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets or, with respect to equipment under capital leases and leasehold improvements, amortized over the shorter of the lease term or the assets' useful lives and reported with depreciation and amortization (including impairments) in the consolidated statements of operations.
 
Affiliation, broadcast and other agreements (primarily cable television system programming agreements) are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from 3 to 12 years.  Other intangible assets are amortized on the straight-line basis over the periods benefited (5 to 25 years).  Excess costs over fair value of net assets acquired ("goodwill") and the value of franchises acquired in purchase business combinations which have indefinite useful lives are no longer amortized in connection with the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and other Intangible Assets, on January 1, 2002.
 
The Company reviews its long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets subject to amortization that arose from business combinations accounted for under the purchase method) for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  If the sum of the expected cash flows, undiscounted and without interest, is less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value.
 
The Company evaluates the recoverability of its goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired.  Statement 142 requires that goodwill impairment be determined using a two-step process.  The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any.  The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.  If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill which would be recognized in a business combination.
 
The impairment test for other intangible assets not subject to amortization consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value.  If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
 
Satellite Development Costs
 
In 2001, Rainbow DBS entered into a contract for the construction of its satellite with Lockheed Martin Corporation.  The contract provided for scheduled payments over a period extending through 2003, as well as cancellation penalties if the contract was terminated before the satellite was launched.  As of December 31, 2003, payments made under the terms of the contract totaled approximately $255,300.  In
 
connection with the construction of this satellite, the Company capitalized interest of $7,692 and $7,390, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002.  This satellite was launched in July 2003, therefore no interest was capitalized since that date.
 
Rainbow DBS has the right to terminate this contract prior to November 21, 2005 without penalty.  If the contract is terminated subsequent to that date, Rainbow DBS would be required to make a termination payment, which at December 31, 2005 would not be significant.  Milestone payments scheduled to be made in 2005 aggregate $50,900.  However, milestone payments would cease upon termination of the contract.  As of December 31, 2004, payments made under the terms of this contract totaled approximately $5,788.
. 
Rainbow DBS entered into a satellite procurement contract covering five Ka-band satellites with Lockheed Martin in November 2004.  The construction cost under the contract is approximately $740,000, subject to certain adjustments
 
Refer to Note 5 for a discussion of impairment charges relating to the Rainbow DBS segment and Note 23 for a discussion of events subsequent to December 31, 2004 which affect this segment.
 
Feature Film Inventory
 
Rights to feature film inventory acquired under license agreements along with the related obligations are recorded at the contract value when a license agreement is executed or the license period has begun.  Costs are amortized to technical and operating expense on a straight-line basis over the respective license periods.  Amounts payable subsequent to December 31, 2004 related to feature film telecast rights are as follows:
 
 
See Note 5 for a discussion of the Company's review of the programming usefulness of our feature film inventory and impairment charges recorded in 2004, 2003 and 2002.
 
Deferred Carriage Fees
 
Deferred carriage fees represent amounts paid or payable to cable systems operators to guarantee carriage of certain programming services and are amortized as a reduction to revenue over the period of guarantee (1 to 11 years).
 
Deferred Financing Costs
 
Costs incurred to obtain debt are deferred and amortized to interest expense over the life of the related debt.
 
Income Taxes
 
Income taxes are provided based upon the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, which requires the asset and liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes and permits the recognition of deferred tax assets, subject to an ongoing assessment of realizability.
 
Income (Loss) Per Common Share
 
Basic and diluted net income (loss) per common share are not presented since the Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision.
 
Reclassifications
 
Certain reclassifications have been made in the 2003 and 2002 financial statements to conform to the 2004 presentation.  In addition, the assets and liabilities attributable to Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida and certain assets of the Rainbow DBS distribution business have been classified in the consolidated balance sheets as assets and liabilities held for sale for all periods presented.  The operating results of these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.  See Note 23.
 
Cash Flows
 
For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, the Company considers short-term investments with a maturity at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
 
During 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company's non-cash investing and financing activities and other supplemental data were as follows:
 
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
 
The Company accounts for derivative financial instruments in accordance with Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended.  Statement No. 133 requires that an entity recognize all derivatives, as defined, as either assets or liabilities measured at fair value.  If the derivative is designated as a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative will either be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized as a component of comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.  The ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value will be immediately recognized in earnings.  The Company uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure to market risks from changes in certain equity prices and interest rates and does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.  These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges, and changes in the fair values of these derivatives are recognized in earnings as gain (losses) on derivative contracts.
 
Concentrations and Credit Risk
 
Financial instruments that may potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables.  Cash is invested in money market funds, bank time deposits or in obligations of the U.S. Treasury.   The Company's cash investments are placed with money markets funds or financial institutions that have received the highest rating awarded by S&P and Moody's.  The Company had one customer that accounted for approximately 11% and 17% of the Company's consolidated net trade receivable balances at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, which exposes the Company to a concentration of credit risk.  Although this customer exceeded 10 percent of the Company's consolidated net trade receivables, the Company does not have a single external customer which represents 10 percent or more of its consolidated revenues.
 
Use of Estimates in Preparation of Financial Statements
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Commitments and Contingencies
 
Liabilities for loss contingencies arising from claims, assessments, litigation, fines and penalties and other sources are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the assessment can be reasonably estimated.
 
Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Standards
 
In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.  FIN 46, as revised in December 2003 ("FIN 46R"), addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities, which are entities that either (a) do not have equity investors with characteristics of a controlling financial interest, (b) equity investors do not have voting rights that are proportionate to their economic interest, or (c) have equity investors that do not provide sufficient financial resources for the entity to support its activities.  For all variable interest entities created prior to February 1, 2003, the Company was required to apply the provisions of FIN 46R by March 31, 2004.  For variable interest entities created subsequent to January 31, 2003, FIN 46R was effective in 2003.  In determining how to account for our interests in variable interest entities ("VIE"), we consolidated all VIEs for which we are either the primary beneficiary or provide more than half of the total of the equity, subordinated debt, or other forms of subordinated financial support.  The Company consolidated its investment in Northcoast Communications LLC at March 31, 2004 (see Note 14) and its investment in DTV Norwich LLC as of the date of the DTV Norwich Transaction (see Note 3).  In addition, the Company consolidated its investment in PVI Virtual Media Services LLC in the second quarter of 2004 in connection with an amendment to the LLC agreement which caused the Company to reconsider whether PVI Virtual Media was a variable interest entity.  PVI Virtual Media markets a real time video insertion system that through patented technology places computer generated electronic images into television broadcasts of sporting events and other programming.  PVI Virtual Media's total assets and liabilities consolidated in the second quarter of 2004 amounted to approximately $15,000 and $4,000, respectively.  PVI Virtual Media's total assets and
liabilities as of December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $14,400 and $7,600, respectively.  Creditors of PVI Virtual Media have no recourse to the general credit of the Company.
 
In March 2004, the EITF ratified its consensus related to the application guidance within EITF Issue 03-1, The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments.  EITF 03-1 applies to investments in debt and equity securities within the scope of Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, and equity securities that are not subject to the scope of Statement No. 115 and not accounted for under the equity method under APB Opinion 18 and related interpretations.  EITF 03-1 requires that a three-step model be applied in determining when an investment is considered impaired, whether that impairment is other than temporary and the measurement of an impairment loss.  The adoption of EITF 03-1 did not have an impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
In March 2004, the EITF reached a consensus regarding Issue No. 03-16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies.  EITF 03-16 requires investments in limited liability companies that have separate ownership accounts for each investor to be accounted for similar to a limited partnership investment under Statement of Position No. 78-9, Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures.  Investors would be required to apply the equity method of accounting to their investments at a much lower ownership threshold than the 20% threshold applied under Accounting Principles Board No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock.  EITF 03-16 was effective for the first period beginning after June 15, 2004.  The adoption of EITF 03-16 did not have an impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
In September 2004, the SEC staff issued Topic D-108, Use of the Residual Method to Value Acquired Assets Other than Goodwill, which requires the direct method of separately valuing all intangible assets and does not permit goodwill to be included in franchise assets.  Topic D-108 requires the application of the direct value method to such assets acquired in business combinations completed after September 29, 2004.  Further, for registrants who have applied the residual method to the valuation of intangible assets for purposes of impairment testing, such registrants should perform an impairment test using a direct value method for all intangible assets that were previously valued using the residual method by no later than the beginning of their first fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2004.  Impairments recognized upon application of Topic D-108 should be reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting.  The Company currently uses the direct value method for purposes of impairment testing of its indefinite-lived intangibles and therefore the adoption of Topic D-108 had no impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
 
financial position or results of operations in 2004.
In September 2004, the EITF reached a consensus regarding Issue No. 04-1, Accounting for Preexisting Relationships Between the Parties to a Business Combination. EITF 04-1 requires an acquirer in a business combination to evaluate any preexisting relationship with the acquiree to determine if the business combination in effect contains a settlement of the preexisting relationship.  A business combination between parties with a preexisting relationship should be viewed as a multiple element transaction.  EITF 04-1 is effective for business combinations after October 13, 2004, but requires goodwill resulting from prior business combinations involving parties with a preexisting relationship to be tested for impairment by applying the guidance in the consensus in impairment tests performed after October 13, 2004. The application of the provisions of EITF 04-1 had no impact on the Company's
In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions. Statement No. 153 addresses the principle that exchanges of nonmonetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged.  Statement No. 153 eliminates the narrow exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a broader exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance.  Previously, Opinion 29 required that the accounting for an exchange of a productive asset for a similar productive asset or an equivalent interest in the same or similar productive asset should be based on the recorded amount of the asset relinquished.  The Statement is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005.  The provisions of Statement No. 153 will be adopted for all nonmonetary exchanges initiated after July 1, 2005 and therefore had no impact to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
NOTE 2.
                                                
INVESTIGATIONS
ACCOUNTING RELATED
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York continue to conduct investigations into matters related to the improper expense recognition previously reported by the Company.  In July 2004, in connection with the Company's response to the comments of the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the Securities and Exchange Commission on the Company's filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company provided information with respect to certain of its previous restatement adjustments relating to the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements.  The staff of the Division of Enforcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission has contacted the Company to ask for additional information on these launch support, marketing and other payments.
 
NOTE 3.                TRANSACTIONS
 
2004 Transactions
 
  In connection with the equity investment, the Company loaned DTV Norwich an additional $84,600 for the acquisition of these licenses (the "DTV Norwich Transaction").  Under the terms of the promissory note with DTV Norwich, the loan was forgiven when the FCC granted the MVDDS licenses to DTV Norwich on July 27, 2004 and September 23, 2004.
at auction from the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") to provide multichannel video distribution and data service ("MVDDS") in 46 metropolitan areas in the United States.
In January 2004, Rainbow DBS Company LLC, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, invested $100 for a 49% interest in DTV Norwich, an entity that acquired licenses
 
Rainbow DBS also agreed to a put/call option with the other investor in DTV Norwich.  Rainbow DBS had a call option to purchase an additional 41% membership interest in DTV Norwich at an exercise price of $4,230.  Rainbow DBS exercised its call option on October 29, 2004.  Rainbow DBS has received FCC approval to acquire the 41% membership interest which will give Rainbow DBS control of this entity.  The other investor has the right, for ten years, to put its remaining 10% interest to Rainbow DBS at fair value to be determined by a process involving independent valuation experts.
 
Pursuant to FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, this entity was consolidated with the Company as of the date of the transaction since it does not have sufficient equity to demonstrate that it can finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support.  The acquired licenses were
recorded in the consolidated balance sheet as other intangible assets and were deemed to have an indefinite life.  Since this variable interest entity is not considered a business pursuant to FIN 46R, the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid and the newly consolidated non-controlling interest over the fair value of the newly consolidated identifiable assets, of $7,436 net of taxes of $5,384, was recorded as an extraordinary loss.   In connection with the Company's decision in December 2004 to seek strategic alternatives for the Rainbow DBS business (see Note 5 and Note 23), the Company reduced the carrying value of the acquired licenses to their estimated fair value of $6,113 based on available MVDDS auction value information.
 
In accordance with the provisions of FIN 46R, the assets and liabilities attributable to the Company's 49.9% interest in Northcoast Communications (a wireless personal communications business) were consolidated and classified as assets and liabilities held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2004.  Northcoast Communications' consolidated net assets consisted primarily of the net assets of its Cleveland PCS subsidiary.  Vendor financing for the Cleveland PCS business consisted of a $75,000 credit facility at Cleveland PCS, LLC.  This facility had no recourse to the Company or to Northcoast Communications, other than pursuant to a pledge by Northcoast Communications of the stock of Cleveland PCS and a guarantee of the payment by Northcoast Communications and the Company of the FCC indebtedness of the Cleveland PCS subsidiary which held the Cleveland PCS license.  In March 2004, Northcoast Communications agreed to sell its Cleveland PCS business to an unaffiliated entity.  The FCC indebtedness was fully repaid by Cleveland PCS in the second quarter of 2004.  The sale of Cleveland PCS was consummated in July 2004 and the obligations of Cleveland PCS under the vendor financing were satisfied.  The Company did not record any gain or loss in connection with the sale.   The net assets sold in the third quarter of 2004 consisted of the following:
 
 
The Company's investment in Northcoast Communications was zero at December 31, 2004.
 
2003 Transactions
 
In July 2003, the Company repurchased Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc.'s ("MGM") 20% interest in each of AMC, The Independent Film Channel ("IFC") and WE: Women's Entertainment for $500,000 and entered into a film rights agreement relating to the MGM film library.  The $500,000 purchase price consisted of $250,000 in cash and a $250,000 note issued by Cablevision and maturing five months after closing, payable in cash or, at Cablevision's election, shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock.  The $250,000 note required monthly principal payments of $2,500 in cash prior to maturity.  The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.  The excess of the purchase price over the net book value of the assets acquired of approximately $415,662 was allocated to the specific assets acquired as follows:
 
 
In May 2003, Northcoast Communications completed its sale of spectrum licenses covering 50 U.S. markets to Verizon Wireless for approximately $763,000 in cash.  Of the proceeds, approximately $51,000 was used by Northcoast Communications to retire debt.  The remaining proceeds, after payment of expenses, were distributed to the partners of Northcoast Communications, including the Company.  The Company's share of the proceeds was approximately $651,000.  All of the available funds were used by the Company to repay bank debt under the Restricted Group credit facility.
 
In March 2003, the Company transferred the stock of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cablevision Electronics Investments, Inc. to GBO Electronics Acquisition, LLC.  As of December 31, 2003, the Company recorded losses aggregating $8,382, net of taxes, in connection with this transaction.
 
In January 2003, subsidiaries of News Corporation ("News Corporations") exercised a put option relating to interests in Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area that News Corporation held outside of Regional Programming Partners.  Regional Programming Partners, which held a 50% interest in each of these businesses, is a 60% owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings.  In March 2003, Rainbow Media Holdings and News Corporation agreed on a $110,000 purchase price for News Corporation's 50% interest in Fox Sports Net Bay Area and a $40,000 purchase price for News Corporation's 50% interest in Fox Sports Net Chicago, payable in each case in the form of three-year promissory notes of a subsidiary of Regional Programming Partners, bearing interest at the prime rate plus 1% and secured by Regional Programming Partners' 100% interest in Fox Sports Net Bay Area.  The transaction closed in December 2003 and the operating results of the acquired businesses have been consolidated with those of the Company as of the acquisition date.  The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.  The excess of the purchase price over the net book value of the assets acquired of approximately $77,259 was allocated to the specific assets acquired as follows:
 
 
2002 Transactions
 
During the six months ended June 30, 2002, NBC-Rainbow Holding, Inc., a subsidiary of National Broadcasting Company ("NBC"), had exchanged a 5.0% interest in Rainbow Media Holdings equity securities for 9,968,988 shares of Rainbow Media Group Class A common stock of Cablevision (valued
at $98,514).  The Rainbow Media Group common stock was exchanged for 11,872,367 shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock on August 20, 2002.  In September 2002, NBC exchanged a 0.7% interest in Rainbow Media Holdings equity securities for 1,647,266 shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock of Cablevision (valued at $16,374).  In connection with the sale of the Bravo programming service to NBC in December 2002 discussed below, the Company acquired NBC's remaining 17.2% minority interest in Rainbow Media Holdings, increasing the Company's interest in Rainbow Media Holdings to 100%.
 
The acquisitions of the 22.9% and the 3.1% minority interests in 2002 and 2001, respectively, were accounted for as purchases.  The excess of the purchase prices over the net book value of assets acquired of approximately $293,353 was allocated to the specific assets acquired, in 2002, as follows:
 
 
In December 2002, the Company completed the sale of Rainbow Media Holdings' 80% interest in the Bravo programming service to NBC for $1.0 billion, payable in General Electric Company common stock and 53.2 million shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock (21.8 million shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock held by NBC and 31.4 million shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock issuable upon the conversion of shares of Rainbow Media Holdings common stock held by NBC).  The Company recorded a gain of $663,352, net of taxes, in connection with this transaction.  The operating results of the Bravo programming service, including the gain on sale, have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented.  The net operating results of the Bravo programming service were previously reported in the Rainbow segment.
 
In March 2002, Rainbow Media Holdings acquired Loral Space and Communications, Ltd.'s 50% interest in Rainbow DBS (formerly R/L DBS Company, LLC) for a purchase price of up to a present value of $33,000 payable from a percentage of future revenues of Rainbow DBS' business, if any, or from any future sale of all or part of the interests in or assets of Rainbow DBS.  This purchase increased Rainbow Media Holdings' ownership of Rainbow DBS to 100%.  Rainbow DBS' operating results are consolidated with those of the Company as of the date of acquisition.  At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the total amount due to Loral Space and Communications under this earn-out arrangement was $44,065 and $40,801.
 
Rainbow DBS was formed for the purpose of exploiting certain direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") frequencies.  The FCC's construction permit relating to the DBS frequencies was originally scheduled to expire in August 1999.  In December 2000, the FCC granted an extension to Rainbow DBS' construction permit relating to the DBS frequencies held by Rainbow DBS.  The extension required the launch of a satellite by March 29, 2003 and commencement of service offerings by not later than December 29, 2003, with specified six month interim construction milestones, non-compliance with which would result in the
 
 
, the Company's direct broadcast satellite service.  See Note 23 for a discussion of subsequent events.
forfeiture of the construction permit.  In March 2003, Rainbow DBS requested an extension of the launch date of a direct broadcast satellite to August 31, 2003 due to the satellite manufacturer's need for additional time for scheduling and testing of the launch vehicle for the satellite. On July 17, 2003, Rainbow DBS successfully launched a direct broadcast satellite into space and on October 15, 2003, Rainbow DBS introduced VOOM
SM
 
NOTE 4.                RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
 
In December 2001, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $56,442 (including $13,720 for discontinued operations) which included expenses of approximately $21,018 associated with the elimination of approximately 600 positions, primarily in corporate, administrative and infrastructure functions across various business units of the Company, and estimated expenses of approximately $35,424 associated with facility realignment and other related costs.  The following table summarizes the accrued restructuring liability related to the 2001 restructuring plan for continuing operations:
 
 
In 2002, the Company announced a new operating plan and restructuring which included the closing of 26 retail electronics store locations, the consolidation of customer service call centers, and the elimination of certain staff positions.  Additionally, the Company reached an agreement with its supplier of set top boxes which reduced the Company's purchase commitments for set top boxes from $378,500 in 2002, $378,500 in 2003, and $567,750 in 2004 to a total remaining commitment of $87,500 in 2002 and nothing thereafter and required the Company to make certain other cash payments aggregating $50,000 plus interest on a portion of such amount with respect to, among other things, a license for certain software (valued at $17,500 based on an independent appraisal). In connection with this plan, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $84,626 (including $11,553 for discontinued operations) which included $21,762 (including $3,642 for discontinued operations) associated with the elimination of approximately 3,000 positions, $30,364 (including $7,911 for discontinued operations) associated with facility realignment and other related costs and $32,500 associated with the reduction in required digital set top box commitments.  The following table summarizes the accrued restructuring liability related to the 2002 restructuring plan for continuing operations:
 
 
 
In 2003, the Company eliminated certain staff positions and incurred severance costs aggregating $6,111.  The following table summarizes the accrued restructuring liability related to the 2003 restructuring plan for continuing operations:
 
 
In connection with the acquisition of News Corporation's 50% interest in Fox Sports Net Chicago in December 2003, the Company consolidated a restructuring liability of $380 relating to facility realignment costs.  This liability was paid in full as of December 31, 2004.
 
During 2004, the Company recorded restructuring charges aggregating $5,742, associated with the elimination of certain positions in various business units of the Company.  As of December 31, 2004, approximately $4,409 of these charges was paid.
 
Restructuring expenses (credits) by segment for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 are as follows:
 
 
At December 31, 2004, the restructuring liability was classified as a current liability in the consolidated balance sheet.
 
NOTE 5.                IMPAIRMENT CHARGES
 
goodwill, intangible and long-lived assets are based on estimates of fair value, certain of which are subject to change upon final disposition of those assets.
film and programming contracts, equipment inventory and deposits are based on net realizable value and the impairment charges related to
In connection with the Board of Directors' decision in December 2004 to suspend pursuing the spin-off of its Rainbow Media Enterprises subsidiary and instead to pursue strategic alternatives for its Rainbow DBS business, the Company performed a review of its assets for recoverability.  The Company recorded an impairment charge of $90,540 included in depreciation and amortization expense relating to long-lived assets and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and a charge of $75,805 included in technical and operating expenses representing the write down of certain film and programming contracts of its VOOM 21 channels.  In addition, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $155,415 reflecting the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of long-lived assets and goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and a charge of $33,052 representing the write off of equipment inventory and deposits which have been recorded in discontinued operations.  The impairment charges related to
 
The Company recorded impairment charges of $2,394, included in depreciation and amortization, relating to certain other long-lived assets deemed impaired within its theater operations and Rainbow segment in 2004.
 
We periodically review the programming usefulness of our feature film inventory based on a series of factors, including ratings, type and quality of program material, standards and practices, and fitness for exhibition based on the programming of the individual programming service. If we determine that substantially all of the films in a film license agreement have no future programming usefulness and will no longer be exploited, we record a write-off for the portion of the unamortized cost of the film license agreement that was attributed to those films.
 
As part of its periodic review of expected programming usefulness, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $297, $17,900 and $1,900 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  Such amounts represent the write-off of the carrying value of certain film and programming contracts of the Company's Rainbow segment and are included in technical and operating expense.
 
In December 2002, the Company recorded an impairment loss of approximately $43,222, included in discontinued operations, representing the write down of software and leasehold improvements relating to the Company's retail electronics business.  The retail electronics business' projected future operating losses caused the Company to reassess the recoverability of the retail electronics business' fixed assets.  The carrying value of these fixed assets exceeded the estimated fair value based on discounted cash flows.
 
NOTE 6.                DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
 
In connection with the transactions discussed in Note 23, the operating results of Fox Sports Net Ohio, Fox Sports Net Florida and the Rainbow DBS distribution business, net of taxes, have been classified in the consolidated statements of operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented.Discontinued operations alsoincludes the operating results and gain (loss) on the transfer of the retail electronics stores in March 2003 and the sale of the Bravo programming business in December 2002.
 
Operating results of discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 are summarized below:
 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded losses, net of taxes, of approximately $1,092, representing the finalization of film asset adjustments that relate to the sale of the Bravo programming business.  In addition, the Company recorded losses, net of taxes, of approximately $562 for the year ended December 31, 2004 that related primarily to estimated legal and payroll tax settlements in connection with the transfer of the retail electronics business.
 
 
 
Certain assets of the Rainbow DBS distribution business, previously included in the Rainbow DBS segment, have been classified as assets held for sale in the consolidated balance sheets of the Company.  These assets relate to the direct broadcast satellite television business of Rainbow DBS.  The assets
associated with the VOOM 21 high definition programming of Rainbow DBS are included in the Company's Rainbow segment.  The Rainbow DBS assets held for sale consist of the following:
 
 
As a result of the transaction discussed in Note 23, the assets and liabilities attributable to Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida, previously included in the Rainbow segment, have been classified in the consolidated balance sheets as assets and liabilities held for sale and consist of the following:
 
 
NOTE 7.                PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
Costs incurred in the construction of the Company's cable television system, including line extensions to, and rebuild of, the Company's hybrid fiber-coaxial infrastructure and costs incurred in the construction of the Company's headend facilities are capitalized and included in "headends" and "infrastructure," below.  These costs consist of materials, sub-contractor labor, direct consulting fees, and internal labor and related costs associated with the construction activities.  The internal costs that are capitalized consist of salaries and benefits of Company employees and the portion of facility costs, including rent, taxes, insurance and utilities, that supports the construction activities.  Infrastructure costs are depreciated over the 12-year estimated life of the plant, and headend facilities are depreciated over the estimated life of the specific component, ranging from 4 years for certain electronics to 15 years for tower sites.  Costs of operating the plant and the technical facilities, including repairs and maintenance and call completion fees, are expensed as incurred.
 
In addition, the costs of connecting businesses or residences that have never before been connected to the service offering are capitalized.  These costs include material, subcontractor and internal labor and related costs as discussed above.  In addition, on-site and remote technical assistance during the provisioning process for new digital product offerings are capitalized.  The departmental activities supporting the connection process are tracked through specific metrics, and the portion of departmental costs that is capitalized is determined through a time weighted activity allocation of costs incurred based on time studies used to estimate the average time spent on each activity.  New connections are amortized over 5 years or 12 years for residence wiring and feeder cable to the home, respectively.  The portion of
departmental costs related to reconnection, programming service up- and down- grade, repair and maintenance, and disconnection activities are expensed as incurred.
 
Property, plant and equipment consist of the following assets, which are depreciated or amortized primarily on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives shown below:
 
 
, respectively.
815,346
Depreciation expense (including impairments) for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 amounted to $966,291, $970,377 and $
 
At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the gross amount of equipment and related accumulated amortization recorded under capital leases were as follows:
 
 
NOTE 8.                INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
The following table summarizes information relating to the Company's acquired intangible assets at December 31, 2004 and 2003:
 
 
The changes in the carrying amount of excess costs over the fair value of net assets acquired for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 are as follows:
 
 
NOTE 9.                DEBT
 
Bank Debt
 
Restricted Group
 
The Company has a $2,400,000 revolving credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") with a group of banks which matures on June 30, 2006.  The facility is guaranteed by certain subsidiaries of the Company, primarily its cable television operating subsidiaries and its commercial telephone subsidiary ("Restricted Group").  The total amount of bank debt outstanding under the Restricted Group credit facility at December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $1,889,000 and $1,513,039  (including $1,039 outstanding under a separate overdraft facility at December 31, 2003), respectively.  As of December 31, 2004, approximately $53,375 was restricted for certain letters of credit issued on behalf of the Company. Interest on outstanding amounts may be paid, at the option of the Company, based on the prime rate or a Eurodollar rate plus a margin which varies based on the Restricted Group's leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement).
 
Undrawn funds under the Credit Agreement amounted to approximately $457,625 at December 31, 2004.  The Credit Agreement contains certain financial covenants that may limit the Restricted Group's ability to utilize all of the undrawn funds thereunder.  The Credit Agreement contains various restrictive covenants, among which are the maintenance of various financial ratios, limitations on additional indebtedness and limitations on various payments, including preferred dividends and dividends on its common stock.  In January 2005, the Company amended the debt to cash flow ratio permitted under the Credit Agreement.  The amended covenant is 6.25 times through June 30, 2005, 5.75 times through December 31, 2005 and 5.50 times thereafter through June 30, 2006.  The Company was in compliance with the covenants of its Credit Agreement at December 31, 2004.
 
The weighted average interest rate on all bank borrowings under the Credit Agreement was 3.73% and 3.19% on December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  The Company is also obligated to pay fees ranging from 0.375% to 0.75% per annum on the unused loan commitment and from 0.875% to 2.50% per annum on letters of credit issued under the Credit Agreement.
 
Rainbow National Services 
 
In August 2004, Rainbow National Services LLC ("RNS"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings, which owns the common equity interests in the Company's three national
programming services  AMC, WE  and IFC, entered into a $950,000 senior secured credit facility ($350,000 of which is a revolving credit facility maturing September 30, 2011 and $600,000 of which is a term loan facility maturing March 31, 2012).  The RNS credit facility is secured by the assets and stock of AMC, WE and IFC and guaranteed by AMC, WE and IFC, and Rainbow Programming Holdings, RNS's direct parent.  The RNS credit facility contains certain covenants that require the maintenance of financial ratios (as defined in the credit facility) as well as restrictions on distributions, additional indebtedness, and liens.  The maximum total leverage ratio per the credit facility is 6.75 times the cash flow (as defined) of AMC, IFC and WE through 2006.  The revolving credit facility requires commitment reductions beginning December 31, 2009 through September 30, 2011.  The term loan requires amortization of 0.25% of the original outstanding balance per quarter beginning June 30, 2005 through March 31, 2011 and 23.50% of the original outstanding balance for each quarter thereafter through its maturity date.  Borrowings under the revolving credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin based upon the leverage ratio.  Amounts under the term loan bear interest at LIBOR plus 2.75%.  There were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2004.  The weighted average interest rate under the term loan was 5.19% on December 31, 2004.
 
Rainbow Media Holdings
 
In December 2003, Rainbow Media Holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company entered into an $823,000 credit facility consisting of a $200,000 revolving credit facility and a $623,000 term loan, maturing on March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009, respectively.  This facility amended and combined the previously existing Rainbow Media Holdings $300,000 credit facility and the AMC, IFC and WE $75,000 credit facility entered into in March 2003.  The amended facility had been secured primarily by the assets of and guaranteed by AMC, IFC and WE.  Rainbow Media Holdings' 100% interest in the stock of these entities was also pledged as collateral.
 
Loans under the Rainbow Media Holdings credit facility bore interest at the Eurodollar rate plus a margin based upon Rainbow Media Holdings' leverage ratio.  At December 31, 2003, $734,000 was outstanding under this credit facility and bore interest at a weighted average rate of 3.57%.
 
In August 2004, RNS distributed approximately $704,900 to Rainbow Media Holdings which it used to repay all outstanding amounts under its credit facility and collateralize outstanding letters of credit.  Such proceeds were obtained through the issuance of bank debt and the issuance of senior and senior subordinated notes by RNS.  The Company wrote off approximately $12,694 of unamortized deferred financing costs in connection with the termination of the credit facility in 2004.
 
Madison Square Garden
 
MSG, a subsidiary of Regional Programming Partners, had a $500,000 revolving credit facility with a group of banks which was to mature on December 31, 2004.  MSG had pledged substantially all of its assets as collateral under the credit facility.  Loans under the MSG credit facility bore interest at either prime rate or a Eurodollar rate plus a margin based upon MSG's consolidated leverage ratio.  At December 31, 2003, loans outstanding amounted to $110,000, and bore interest at a weighted average rate of 1.93%.  In March 2004, borrowings under the credit facility were repaid in full and the credit facility was terminated with proceeds from a $146,000 equity contribution from Regional Programming Partners.  The Company wrote off approximately $1,187 of unamortized deferred financing costs in connection with the termination of the credit facility.
 
Senior Notes and Debentures
 
The following table summarizes the Company's senior notes and debentures:
 
 
These notes are not redeemable by the Company prior to maturity.
(a)
                     
The Company may redeem some or all of the notes at any time at a make-whole redemption price calculated by reference to market interest rates for comparable maturity treasury notes plus a spread.
(b)
                    
The senior notes are redeemable, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 104.375% of face value at any time on or after September 1, 2008, 102.188% of face value on or after September 1, 2009, and 100% of face value on or after September 1, 2010.
(c)
                     
 
In April 2004, the Company issued $500,000 face amount of 6-3/4% senior notes due 2012.  In August 2004, RNS issued $300,000 aggregate principal amount of 8 3/4% senior notes due 2012.
 
The indentures under which the senior notes and debentures were issued contain various covenants, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the credit agreement of the issuer with which the issuer was in compliance at December 31, 2004.
 
Senior Subordinated Notes and Debentures
 
The following table summarizes the Company's senior subordinated notes and debentures:
 
 
These notes were discounted $3,915 upon original issuance.
(a)
                     
The notes/debentures are redeemable, at the Company's option, in whole or in part, on the redemption dates listed at the respective percentage of the principal amount and thereafter at 100% of the aggregate principal amount, in each case together with accrued interest to the redemption date.
(b)
                    
In May 2004, the Company redeemed these senior subordinated debentures.  In connection with these redemptions, the Company recognized a loss of $14,325 representing primarily the redemption premiums paid.
(c)
                     
 
In August 2004, RNS issued $500,000 aggregate principal amount of 10-3/8% senior subordinated notes due 2014.
 
The indentures under which the senior subordinated notes and debentures were issued contain various covenants, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the Company's credit agreement of the issuer, with which the issuer was in compliance at December 31, 2004.
 
Summary of Five Year Debt Maturities
 
Total amounts payable by the Company and its subsidiaries under its various debt obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2004, including collateralized indebtedness (see Note 12) and capital leases, during the five years subsequent to December 31, 2004, are as follows:
 
 
NOTE 10.
PREFERRED STOCK
                          
 
The following summarizes each series of the Company's preferred stock at December 31, 2003:
 
 
In February 2003, Quadrangle Capital Partners LP, a private investment firm, invested $75,000 in the Company, in the form of 10% Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock convertible into Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock.
 
In connection with the issuance of the Series A preferred stock to Quadrangle, the Company entered into an agreement with Quadrangle which granted Quadrangle the right to require the Company to purchase the preferred stock ("put option") for cash or through the issuance of registered equity securities of Cablevision, at the Company's option.  The exchange right and the put option were accounted for as a derivative.  Accordingly, the fair value of the exchange right and the put option has been reflected as a liability under derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2003.  The change in the fair value of the exchange right and put option of $31,709 and $38,618 for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, has been reflected as a loss on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.
 
In October 2003, Quadrangle exercised its "put option" to require CSC Holdings to purchase all of its Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock.  The parties entered into an agreement that the put price was $150,328.  The put price was paid in cash by CSC Holdings in August 2004.
 
In February 1996, the Company issued 6,500,000 depositary shares, representing 65,000 shares of 11-1/8% Series L Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the "Series L Preferred Stock"), which were subsequently exchanged for Series M Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the "Series M Preferred Stock") in August 1996 with terms identical to the Series L Preferred Stock.  The depositary shares were exchangeable, in whole but not in part, at the option of the Company, for the Company's 11-1/8% Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2008.  The Company was required to redeem the Series M
Preferred Stock on April 1, 2008 at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference of $10,000 per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends.  The Series M Preferred Stock was redeemable at various redemption prices beginning at 105.563% at any time on or after April 1, 2003, at the option of the Company, with accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of redemption.  Before April 1, 2001, dividends could, at the option of the Company, be paid in cash or by issuing fully paid and nonassessable shares of Series M Preferred Stock with an aggregate liquidation preference equal to the amount of such dividends.  On and after April 1, 2001, dividends were payable in cash.  The Company paid cash dividends on the Series M Preferred Stock of approximately $42,882, $123,500 and $123,500 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
The Series H Preferred Stock was redeemable at various redemption prices beginning at 105.875% at any time on or after October 1, 2002, at the option of the Company, with accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of redemption.  Before October 1, 2000, dividends could, at the option of the Company, be paid in cash or by issuing fully paid and nonassessable shares of Series H Preferred Stock with an aggregate liquidation preference equal to the amount of such dividends.  On and after October 1, 2000, dividends were payable in cash.  The terms of the Series H Preferred Stock permitted the Company, at its option, to exchange the Series H Preferred Stock for the Company's11-3/4% Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2007 in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate liquidation preference of the shares of Series H Preferred Stock.  The Company paid cash dividends on the Series H Preferred Stock of approximately $17,712, $51,016 and $51,016 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
In September 1995, the Company issued 2,500,000 shares of its $.01 par value 11-3/4% Series H Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the "Series H Preferred Stock") with an aggregate liquidation preference of $100 per share.  The Company was required to redeem the Series H Preferred Stock on October 1, 2007 at a redemption price per share equal to the liquidation preference of $100 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. 
 
In May 2004, CSC Holdings redeemed all of its Series H Preferred Stock and its Series M Preferred Stock.  In connection with the redemptions, the Company recognized a loss of $58,170 representing the redemption premiums paid.  In addition, the Company wrote off $5,080 of unamortized deferred financing costs in connection with these redemptions.
 
In connection with the implementation of Statement 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity, on July 1, 2003, the carrying value of the Company's Series H and Series M Preferred Stock of $434,181 and $1,110,113, respectively, was classified as a liability.  In addition, beginning July 1, 2003, dividends have been classified as interest expense, increasing interest expense by $87,258 for the year ended December 31, 2003.
NOTE 11.
INCOME TAXES
                          
 
The Company files a consolidated federal income tax return with its 80% or more owned subsidiaries.
 
Income tax expense (benefit) attributable to continuing operations consists of the following components:
 
 
The income tax expense (benefit) attributable to continuing operations for 2004, 2003 and 2002 exclude deferred federal and state tax benefits of $813, $1,165 and $10,983, respectively, resulting from the exercise of stock options, which were credited directly to paid-in capital.
 
The income tax expense (benefit) attributable to continuing operations differs from the amount derived by applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income principally due to the effect of the following items:
 
 
At December 31, 2004, the Company had consolidated net operating loss carry forwards of approximately $3,064,803 expiring on various dates through 2024.
The Company's net operating loss carry forwards expire as follows:
 
 
The tax effects of temporary differences which give rise to significant portions of deferred tax assets or liabilities and the corresponding valuation allowance at December 31, 2004 and 2003 are as follows:
 
 
Deferred tax assets have resulted primarily from the Company's future deductible temporary differences and net operating loss carry forwards.  In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management
considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.  The Company's ability to realize its deferred tax assets depends upon the generation of sufficient future taxable income to allow for the utilization of its net operating loss carry forwards and deductible temporary differences and tax planning strategies.  If such estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in additional income tax expense in the Company's consolidated statement of operations.  Management evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and the need for additional valuation allowances quarterly.  In 2002, the income tax benefit of the Company reflects an increase in the valuation allowance of $58,576.  At the end of the second quarter of 2002, NBC exchanged part of its interest in Rainbow Media Holdings for shares of the Company's common stock.  As a result of this exchange, Rainbow Media Holdings became a member of the consolidated federal income tax return of the Company.  The exchange was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.  Accordingly, the valuation allowance was reduced to zero, resulting in a reduction to the recorded goodwill, without any income statement benefit.  In 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded increases in the valuation allowance of $14,036 and $27,988, respectively, relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards.
 
NOTE 12.
COLLATERALIZED INDEBTEDNESS AND DERIVATIVES
                          
 
To manage interest rate risk, the Company has from time to time entered into interest rate swap contracts to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable and fixed interest rates. Such contracts fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to provide an economic hedge against the risk of rising rates and/or convert fixed rate borrowings to variable rates to provide an economic hedge against the risk of higher borrowing costs in a declining interest rate environment.  At December 31, 2004, the Company was a party to interest rate swap agreements to pay floating rates of interest with a total notional value of $450,000 and a fair value of approximately $4,051, a net liability position.  At December 31, 2003, the Company was a party to interest rate swap agreements to pay fixed rates of interest with a total notional value of $600,000 and a fair value of approximately $349, a net liability position.  These agreements have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
 
In addition, the Company has entered into prepaid interest rate swap agreements in connection with its monetization of certain of its stock holdings, discussed below.  These contracts require the Company to pay a floating rate of interest in exchange for fixed rate interest payments, the net present value of which was paid to the Company at the contract's inception in a total amount of $239,270.  As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the total notional value of such contracts was $1,115,045 and the fair values of such contracts were $47,314 and $65,753, respectively, in a net liability position.  These agreements have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
 
The changes in the fair value of the Company's swap agreements and the net realized gains (losses) as a result of net cash interest income (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 aggregating approximately $(656), $10,420 and $115,943, respectively, are reflected in gain (loss) on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
The Company has also entered into various transactions to provide an economic hedge against equity price risk on certain of its stock holdings.  The Company had monetized all of its stock holdings in Charter Communications, Inc., Adelphia Communications Corporation, AT&T, AT&T Wireless, Comcast Corporation, General Electric Company and Leapfrog Enterprises, Inc. through the execution of prepaid forward contracts, collateralized by an equivalent amount of the respective underlying stock.  The contracts set a floor and cap on the Company's participation in the changes in the underlying stock prices
and at maturity are expected to offset declines in the fair values of the underlying stock below the hedge price per share, while allowing the Company to retain upside appreciation from the hedge price per share to the cap price.  At maturity, the contracts provide for the option to deliver cash or shares of AT&T, Comcast, Charter Communications, Adelphia Communications, General Electric or Leapfrog stock (as the case may be) with a value determined by reference to the applicable stock price at maturity.
 
The Company received cash proceeds of $330,728 in 2003 and $1,549,411 in 2001, upon execution of the prepaid forward contracts discussed above which has been reflected as collateralized indebtedness in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  In addition, the Company separately accounts for the equity derivative component of the prepaid forward contracts.  These equity derivatives have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  Therefore, the fair values of the equity derivatives of $371,856 and $524,895, at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, have been reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the net increases (decreases) in the fair value of the equity derivative component of the prepaid forward contracts of $(132,940), $(180,125), and $808,094 as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are included in gain (loss) on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.  For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company recorded a gain (loss) on investments of $135,649, $231,836 and $(865,616), respectively, representing the net increases or decreases in the fair values of all investment securities pledged as collateral for the period.  The 2004 gain includes $99,845 relating to the AT&T Wireless common stock transaction discussed below.
 
In May 2002, due to certain events relating to Adelphia Communications, the Company received early termination notices from its bank counterparties pursuant to certain monetization contracts covering 9.79 million shares of Adelphia Communications common stock.  As a result, the Company was required to repay the related collateralized indebtedness prior to maturity, net of the benefit of the related prepaid equity forward contracts in a significant gain position.  The Company made cash payments aggregating $54,813, representing the difference between the redemption value of the collateralized indebtedness and the fair market value of the prepaid equity forward contracts as of the early termination date, and 9.79 million shares of Adelphia Communications common stock that were held as collateral were returned to the Company.  In connection with the early termination, the Company recognized a loss of $17,237, representing the difference between the carrying value and the redemption value of the collateralized indebtedness, which is reflected as a loss on the extinguishment of debt in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.
 
In connection with the issuance of the Series A preferred stock to Quadrangle, the Company entered into an agreement with Quadrangle which granted Quadrangle the right to require the Company to purchase the preferred stock ("put option") for cash or through the issuance of registered equity securities of the Company, at the Company's option.  The exchange right and the put option have been accounted for as a derivative.  Accordingly, the fair value of the exchange right and the put option of $38,618 at December 31, 2003 has been reflected as a liability under derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.  The change in the fair value of the exchange right and put option of $31,709 and $38,618 for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively has been reflected as a loss on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.  In October 2003, Quadrangle exercised its put option to require CSC Holdings to purchase all of its Series A Exchangeable Participating Preferred Stock.  The parties entered into an agreement that the put price was $150,328.  The put price was paid in cash by CSC Holdings in August 2004.
In October 2004, the Company received $213,647 in cash in exchange for all 14.2 million shares it owned of AT&T Wireless common stock, representing the $15 share price paid in consideration of the merger between AT&T Wireless and Cingular Wireless LLC.  The shares and resultant cash exchanged for such shares had previously been pledged in support of the repayment of the collateralized debt.  As a result of that exchange, the Company's prepaid forward contracts relating to its shares of AT&T Wireless were terminated.  The termination provisions under the prepaid forward contracts required the Company to repay the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair value of the underlying stock and equity collars.  The Company recognized a loss on the extinguishment of debt of approximately $6,076 representing the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the collateralized indebtedness.  At December 31, 2004, the Company had settled certain collateralized indebtedness with a fair value of $124,100 by releasing to the counterparty cash proceeds from the related prepaid forward contract totaling $20,100 and the cash from the merger transaction of $105,000 both of which had been pledged in settlement of the debt.  The Company received the net difference of $1,000 in cash.
 
The remaining collateralized indebtedness related to the AT&T Wireless shares was settled in February 2005 and accordingly, the balance sheet at December 31, 2004 reflects the redemption value of the collateralized indebtedness of $116,544, the fair value of the prepaid forward contracts of $8,897 and restricted cash of $108,647.  The Company received net cash proceeds of $1,000 in February 2005 upon settlement of this obligation.
 
NOTE 13.
OPERATING LEASES
                          
 
The Company leases certain office, production, transmission, theater, and event facilities under terms of leases expiring at various dates through 2027.  The leases generally provide for fixed annual rentals plus certain real estate taxes and other costs.  Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 amounted to $77,041, $80,722 and $73,945, respectively.
 
In addition, the Company rents space on utility poles for its operations.  The Company's pole rental agreements are for varying terms, and management anticipates renewals as they expire.  Pole rental expense for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 amounted to approximately $13,607, $13,225 and $12,515, respectively.
 
MSG operates Radio City Music Hall under a long-term lease.  Under the terms of the lease agreement, MSG is required to meet certain net worth, cash flow, and building utilization requirements.  In the event MSG were to fail to meet the lease requirements and was unable to remedy such defaults, the landlord could have the option of terminating the lease.
 
The minimum future annual rentals for all operating leases for continuing operations during the next five years, including pole rentals from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2009, and thereafter, at rates now in force are as follows:
 
NOTE 14.
AFFILIATE AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
                          
 
Equity Method Investments
 
The following table reflects the Company's effective ownership percentages and balances of equity method investments as of December 31, 2004 and 2003:
 
 
See Note 23 for a discussion of an agreement with subsidiaries of News Corporation entered into in February 2005 which will impact our ownership interest in these entities.
(a)
                     
As discussed in Note 1, Northcoast Communications was consolidated in the first quarter of 2004 pursuant to FIN 46R.
(b)
                    
As discussed in Note 1, PVI Virtual Media Services LLC was consolidated in the second quarter of 2004 pursuant to FIN 46R.
(c)
                     
In November 2004, the Company sold its interest in New York Metro LLC and recorded a gain on sale of approximately $2,232.
(d)
                    
The Company's share of the net income (loss) of these affiliates for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 is as follows:
 
 
Operating results of Fox Sports Net Bay Area and Fox Sports Net Chicago have been consolidated with those of the Company from the date of acquisition (see Note 3).
(a)
                     
As discussed in Note 1, Northcoast Communications and PVI Virtual Media Services LLC were consolidated in the first and second quarter of 2004, respectively, pursuant to FIN 46R.
(b)
                    
 
The following table includes certain unaudited financial information for equity method investments:
 
 
Includes amounts due to the Company from affiliates referred to below.
*
                            
 
Aggregate amounts due from and due to these affiliates at December 31, 2004 and 2003 are summarized below:
 
 
The Company provides certain transmission and production services to certain of these affiliates.  For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, approximately $1,502, $3,633, and $3,671, respectively, of revenues were earned from services provided to these entities.  Costs incurred by the Company for programming, entertainment and advertising services provided by these affiliates and included in operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 amounted to $16,186, $9,082 and $8,186, respectively.
Northcoast Communications
 
In August 1996, the Company entered into an agreement with Northcoast PCS, LLC and certain of its affiliates, to form a limited liability company, Northcoast Communications, to participate in the auctions conducted by the FCC for certain licenses to conduct a personal communications service ("PCS") business.  The Company holds a 49.9% interest in Northcoast Communications and certain preferential distribution rights.  In accordance with the provisions of FIN 46R, the assets and liabilities attributable to the Company's 49.9% interest in Northcoast Communications were consolidated as of March 31, 2004.  Northcoast Communications is a Delaware corporation controlled by John Dolan, who is a nephew of Charles F. Dolan and a cousin of James L. Dolan, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, respectively.
 
In May 2003, Northcoast Communications completed its sale of spectrum licenses covering 50 U.S. markets to Verizon Wireless for approximately $763,000 in cash.  Of the proceeds, approximately $51,000 was used by Northcoast Communications to retire debt.  The remaining proceeds, after payment of expenses, were distributed to the partners of Northcoast Communications, including the Company.  The Company's share of the proceeds was approximately $651,000.  All of the funds were used by the Company to repay bank debt under the Restricted Group credit facility.
 
Vendor financing for Northcoast Communications' Cleveland operation consisted of a $75,000 credit facility at its Cleveland PCS, LLC subsidiary.  This facility had no recourse to the Company or to Northcoast Communications, other than pursuant to a pledge by Northcoast Communications of the stock of Cleveland PCS and a guarantee of the payment by Northcoast Communications and Cablevision of the FCC indebtedness of the Cleveland PCS subsidiary which held the Cleveland license.  In March 2004, Northcoast Communications agreed to sell its Cleveland PCS business to an unaffiliated entity.  The sale of Cleveland PCS was consummated in July 2004.  As of December 31, 2004, both the FCC indebtedness and the obligations of Cleveland PCS under the vendor financing were satisfied.  The Company did not record any gain or loss in connection with the sale.
 
Under a contractual agreement, the Company provided Northcoast Communications certain management services.  Pursuant to this agreement, the Company recorded management fees of $1,783 in 2002.
Other Affiliates and Related Parties
 
During 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company provided services to or incurred costs on behalf of other affiliates, including Cablevision.  Aggregate amounts due from and due to these affiliates at December 31, 2004 and 2003 are summarized below:
 
 
 
.  Management control of the Indians is held by Lawrence Dolan.
, including James L. Dolan, the Company's Chief Executive Officer, and Thomas C. Dolan and Patrick F. Dolan, officers of the Company and brothers of James L. Dolan and a trust whose discretionary beneficiaries include Brian Sweeney, son-in-law of Charles F. Dolan, brother-in-law of James L. Dolan and a director
Fox Sports Net Ohio and Cleveland Indians Baseball Club Limited Partnership (the "Indians") are parties to a multi-year rights agreement under which Fox Sports Net Ohio pays license fees to the Indians in exchange for telecast rights to substantially all regular season Indians games.  The Indians are owned by (i) Lawrence Dolan, a brother of Charles F. Dolan, the Company's Chairman, (ii) a trust, the beneficiaries of which are Lawrence Dolan and certain descendants of Lawrence Dolan, and (iii) certain other trusts, the beneficiaries of which are certain descendants of Charles F. Dolan
 
NOTE 15.
BENEFIT PLANS
                          
 
The Company has a Cash Balance Retirement Plan (the "Retirement Plan") for the benefit of employees other than those of the theater business.  Under the Retirement Plan, the Company will credit a certain percentage of eligible base pay into an account established for each participant which will earn a market based rate of return annually.
 
Retirement Plan.
The Company uses a December 31 measurement date for the
 
Components of the net periodic pension cost for the Retirement Plan for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, are as follows:
 
The funded status and the amounts recorded on the Company's balance sheet for the Retirement Plan at December 31, 2004 and 2003, are as follows:
 
 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic cost for years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 are as follows:
 
 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31, 2004 and 2003 are as follows:
 
 
The Retirement Plan's expected rate of return on plan assets is based on the portfolio of assets as a whole and not on the sum of the returns on individual asset investments.
The weighted average asset allocation of the Company's Retirement Plan at December 31, 2004 and 2003 was as follows:
 
 
The Retirement Plan's investment objective is to invest in portfolios that would obtain a market rate of return throughout economic cycles, commensurate with the investment risk and cash flow needs of the Retirement Plan.  This allows the Retirement Plan to subject a portion of its assets to increased risk to generate a greater rate of return.  The Retirement Plan addresses diversification by the use of investment portfolios whose underlying investments are in domestic and international equity securities and domestic fixed income securities.  The investments in each portfolio are readily marketable and can be sold to fund benefit payment obligations of the Retirement Plan as they become payable.
 
The Company expects to contribute $26,000 to the Retirement Plan in 2005.
 
The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid:
 
 
The Company also maintains 401(k) savings plans, pursuant to which an employee can contribute a percentage of eligible annual compensation, as defined.  The Company also makes matching cash contributions for a portion of employee contributions to the 401(k) savings plans. The cost associated with the 401(k) savings plans for continuing operations was approximately $13,321, $12,938 and $13,399 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
The Company maintains the CSSC Supplemental Benefit Plan (the "Supplemental Plan") for the benefit of certain officers and employees of the Company.  As part of the Supplemental Plan, the Company established a nonqualified defined benefit pension plan, which provides that, upon attaining normal retirement age, a participant will receive a benefit equal to a specified percentage of the participant's average compensation, as defined.  All participants are 100% vested in the Supplemental Plan.  Net periodic pension cost was $337, $671 and $453 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the projected benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of Supplemental Plan assets by approximately $1,002 and $1,090, respectively.
 
Plan assets are invested
MSG sponsors non-contributory pension plans covering certain MSG employees.  Benefits payable to retirees under these plans are based upon years of service and, for certain plans, participants' compensation and are funded through trusts established under the plans. 
primarily in common stocks, bonds, United States government securities and cash.  At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the accrued benefit cost amounted to $17,538 and $16,150, respectively, and for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, net periodic pension cost amounted to $4,777, $4,124 and $3,245, respectively.
 
In addition, MSG contributes to various multiemployer defined benefit pension plans.  Contributions made to these multiemployer plans for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 amounted to $5,516, $3,178 and $3,052, respectively.
 
In addition, MSG maintains a nonfunded, nonqualified defined benefit pension plan for the benefit of certain employees of MSG who participate in the plan.  This plan provides that, upon retirement, a participant will receive a benefit based on a formula which reflects the participant's compensation.  Net periodic pension cost for the plan was $1,318, $2,053 and $1,899 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the projected obligation was $12,253 and $11,697, respectively.
 
MSG also sponsors a welfare plan which provides certain postretirement health care benefits to certain MSG employees and their dependents.  The welfare plan is insured through a managed care provider and MSG funds these benefits with premium payments.  For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the periodic postretirement benefit cost amounted to $545, $429 and $430, respectively, and as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the accrued benefit cost amounted to $7,128 and $6,802, respectively.
 
NOTE 16.
STOCK BENEFIT AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS
                          
 
Stock Benefit Plans
 
Cablevision has employee stock plans under which it is authorized to issue incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, stock grants and stock bonus awards.  Stock appreciation rights provide for the employee to receive a cash payment in an amount equal to the difference between the fair market value of the stock as of the date the right is exercised, and the exercise price.  Under the employee stock plans, employees of the Company have received nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, stock grants and bonus award shares.  As a result, the Company recorded expense (income) for continuing operations of approximately $34,314, $42,450 and $(41,210) for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  These amounts reflect vesting schedules for applicable grants as well as fluctuations in the market price of the underlying Cablevision common stock.
 
Long-Term Incentive Plan
 
executives have also received performance retention awards under the plan, vesting over 7 years.  The terms of the performance retention award provided that the executive could have requested a loan from the Company in the amount of the award prior to its vesting, subject to certain limitations, provided that such loan was secured by a lien in favor of the Company on property owned by the executive.  Effective July 30, 2002, such requests for advances on amounts of awards are no longer permitted.  Imputed interest to these executives on these interest free loans amounted to $1,353, $1,732 and $1,320, respectively for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.  As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, $27,270 and
Pursuant to Cablevision's Long-Term Incentive Plan, certain executives of the Company have been granted cash awards that vest over varying periods, some of which are performance based.  Certain
In connection with the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Company has recorded expense for continuing operations of $12,632, $19,541, and $23,501 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
$43,045, respectively, was outstanding in respect of advances made pursuant to this plan. 
 
In addition, in 2003, the Company granted certain management employees cash awards that vest when the Company reaches certain performance goals.  Such awards are being amortized ratably over the period in which the Company is expected to achieve these goals, and accordingly recorded expense of $18,868 and $16,492 in respect of this award in 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
NOTE 17.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
                          
 
The Company, through Rainbow Media Holdings, has entered into several contracts, including rights agreements with professional sports teams and others relating to cable television programming.  In addition, Rainbow Media Holdings, through MSG, has employment agreements with players, general managers and coaches of its professional sports teams.  The contracts provide for payments which are guaranteed regardless of injury or termination.  Certain of these contracts are covered by disability insurance if certain conditions are met.  The future cash payments reflected below do not include the impact of potential insurance recoveries or amounts which may be due to the National Basketball Association ("NBA") for luxury tax payments.  Future cash payments required under these contracts as of December 31, 2004, including certain other unconditional purchase obligations pursuant to contracts entered into in the normal course of business, are as follows:
 
 
At December 31, 2004 approximately $60,919 of commitments, included in the table above, relating primarily to sports teams' and broadcast personnel contracts have been accrued and are reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
 
In April 2004, Rainbow DBS entered into a ten-year lease agreement with SES Americom for transponder space on a satellite, commencing in October 2004.  Rainbow Media Holdings provided irrevocable letters of credit for $19,800 as a security deposit.  Rainbow DBS will initially lease 13 transponders, increasing to 16 in January 2005, with the option of leasing additional transponders.  The agreement contains early termination provisions whereby Rainbow DBS would be permitted on certain dates and in certain circumstances to terminate the agreement.  In the event of early termination, Rainbow DBS would be required to pay an early termination penalty.  In addition, Rainbow DBS would be required to make payments pursuant to the agreement up to the termination date.
 
In addition, approximately $242,832 of sports programming rights commitments are excluded from the table above as they relate to Fox Sports Net Florida and Fox Sports Net Ohio and were transferred to News Corporation in connection with the restructuring of Regional Programming Partners discussed in Note 23.
At December 31, 2004, the Company had outstanding guarantees of approximately $20,353 consisting primarily of guarantees issued in favor of certain financial institutions in respect of ongoing interest expense obligations and potential early termination events in connection with the monetization of the Company's holdings of Charter Communications, Inc., General Electric Company, and Adelphia Communications Corporation common stock by certain of its subsidiaries that are not included in the Restricted Group.  Such guarantees are in effect over the life of the underlying monetization contracts.  Amounts payable under such monetization guarantees are estimated as of a particular point in time by the financial institution counterparty and are based upon the current price of the underlying common stock and various other assumptions, including stock market volatility and prevailing interest rates. Such guaranteed amounts approximate the fair value of the monetization indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and the equity collar as reflected in the Company's accompanying balance sheet, plus accrued interest.
 
In addition to the above amounts, MSG may also be obligated to pay the NBA a luxury tax in each year pursuant to the NBA/NBPA collective bargaining agreement, which is in effect through June 30, 2005.  The ultimate calculation of any amount due would be based on a formula established by the agreement.  The tax is based on the amount by which the team's salary, as defined in the agreement, exceeds a luxury tax "trigger."
 
Many of the Company's franchise agreements and utility pole leases require the Company to remove its cable wires and other equipment upon termination of the respective agreements.  The Company has concluded that the fair value of these asset retirement obligations cannot be reasonably estimated since the range of potential settlement dates is not determinable.
 
NOTE 18.
LEGAL MATTERS
                          
 
The Company is party to various lawsuits, some involving substantial amounts.  Although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, management does not believe that the resolution of these lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations or liquidity of the Company.
 
At Home
 
On April 25, 2001, At Home Corporation commenced a lawsuit in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware alleging that Cablevision had breached its obligations under certain agreements with At Home.  The suit sought a variety of remedies including:  rescission of the agreements between At Home and Cablevision and cancellation of all warrants held by Cablevision, damages, and/or an order prohibiting Cablevision from continuing to offer its Optimum Online service and requiring it to convert its Optimum Online customers to the Optimum@Home service and to roll out the Optimum@Home service.  On September 28, 2001, At Home filed a petition for reorganization in federal bankruptcy court.  In connection with the liquidation of At Home, the claims in this lawsuit, among others, were assigned to the General Unsecured Creditors Liquidated Trust ("GUCLT").
 
On June 26, 2003, the GUCLT initiated a separate action against Cablevision in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.  The California action stemmed from a May 1997 agreement between Cablevision and At Home that is no longer in effect.  The GUCLT sought monetary damages due to the claimed failure by Cablevision to make alleged required payments to At Home during the 2001 calendar year.
In December 2004, the parties reached a final settlement in the California action.  A dismissal of all claims with prejudice was entered on December 17, 2004.
On July 29, 2003, based on an agreed Stipulation filed jointly by Cablevision and the GUCLT, the Court dismissed the Delaware action with prejudice, other than solely with respect to the specific claims brought by the GUCLT in the California action. 
 
YES Network
 
On April 29, 2002, Yankees Entertainment & Sports Network, LLC (the "YES Network") filed a complaint and, on September 24, 2002, an amended complaint against the Company in the United States District Court, Southern District of New York.  The lawsuit arose from the failure of the YES Network and the Company to reach agreement on the carriage of programming of the YES Network (primarily New York Yankees baseball games and New Jersey Nets basketball games) on the Company's cable television systems.  The amended complaint alleged a variety of anticompetitive acts and sought declaratory judgments as to violations of laws, treble damages and injunctive relief, including an injunction requiring the Company to carry the YES Network on its cable television systems.  The Company believes that the claims set forth in the complaint were without merit.  On June 28, 2004, a stipulated Order was entered dismissing all claims with prejudice.
 
On March 31, 2003, YES Network and Cablevision reached an agreement pursuant to which Cablevision began carrying programming of the YES Network.  Under this agreement, Cablevision agreed to carry the YES Network programming for one year under interim arrangements while the parties sought to finalize the terms of a definitive long-term affiliation agreement and/or submitted the matter to arbitration.  The matter was ultimately submitted to arbitration.  The hearing before the arbitration panel ended in March 2004 and, through the arbitrators' decision and a new written agreement by the parties, established the terms for a definitive long-term affiliation agreement that is effective retroactively to March 31, 2003.
 
As part of the original March 31, 2003 agreement, Cablevision paid YES Network for certain revenue reductions that YES Network experienced while the interim agreement was in place, under the "most favored nations" provisions of YES Network's affiliation agreements with certain other distributors.   On November 19, 2004, the parties entered into a subsequent agreement pursuant to which YES Network refunded to Cablevision approximately 60% of such prior payments and the parties provided each other with mutual releases with respect to the interim agreement.
 
Tracking Stock Litigation
 
The action was stayed by agreement of the parties pending resolution of a related action brought by one of the plaintiffs to compel the inspection of certain books and records of the Company.  On October 26, 2004, the parties entered
In August 2002, purported class actions naming as defendants the Company and each of its directors were filed in the Delaware Chancery Court.  The actions, which allege breach of fiduciary duties and breach of contract with respect to the exchange of the Rainbow Media Group tracking stock for Cablevision NY Group common stock, were purportedly brought on behalf of all holders of publicly traded shares of Rainbow Media Group tracking stock.  The actions sought to (i) enjoin the exchange of Rainbow Media Group tracking stock for Cablevision NY Group common stock, (ii) enjoin any sales of "Rainbow Media Group assets," or, in the alternative, award rescissory damages, (iii) if the exchange is completed, rescind it or award rescissory damages, (iv) award compensatory damages, and (v) award costs and disbursements.  The actions were consolidated into one action on September 17, 2002, and on October 3, 2002, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated action. 
into a stipulation dismissing the related action, and providing for the Company's production of certain documents.  On December 13, 2004, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint.  The Company has filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint, which is currently pending before the court.
 
In August 2003, a purported class action naming as defendants the Company, directors and officers of the Company and certain current and former officers and employees of the Company's Rainbow Media Holdings and American Movie Classics subsidiaries was filed in New York Supreme Court by the Teachers Retirement System of Louisiana.  The actions relate to the August 2002 Rainbow Media Group tracking stock exchange and allege, among other things, that the exchange ratio was based upon a price of the Rainbow Media Group tracking stock that was artificially deflated as a result of the improper recognition of certain expenses at the national services division of Rainbow Media Holdings.  The complaint alleges breaches by the individual defendants of fiduciary duties.  The complaint also alleges breaches of contract and unjust enrichment by the Company.  The complaint seeks monetary damages and such other relief as the court deems just and proper.  On October 31, 2003, the Company and other defendants moved to stay the action in favor of the previously filed actions pending in Delaware or, in the alternative, to dismiss for failure to state a claim.  On June 10, 2004, the court stayed the action on the basis of the previously filed action in Delaware.  The Teachers Retirement System of Louisiana has filed a motion to vacate the stay in the New York action, and has simultaneously filed a motion to intervene in the Delaware action and to stay that action.  The Company has opposed both motions.  The Company believes the claims in both the Delaware action and the New York action are without merit and is contesting the lawsuits vigorously.
 
Time Warner Litigation
 
On November 14, 2003, American Movie Classics Company filed an action against Time Warner Entertainment, L.P. in New York State Supreme Court for declaratory relief and damages caused by Time Warner's anticipatory repudiation of its cable television affiliation agreement with American Movie Classics.  American Movie Classics filed that action as a result of Time Warner's notice purporting to terminate the contract based upon Time Warner's allegation that American Movie Classics had changed its programming.  The Company believes the notice was improper.  American Movie Classics is seeking a declaratory judgment that it is entitled to full performance of the agreement, and, at its option, is entitled to rescind the agreement and recover damages.  Time Warner filed an answer and counterclaims in December 2003 seeking, among other things, a declaratory judgment as to its right to terminate the affiliation agreement, an injunction requiring American Movie Classics to deliver a classic films channel and damages for an alleged breach of contract.  Trial is currently scheduled for May 2005.  The Company believes that Time Warner's counterclaims are without merit and is contesting them vigorously.
 
The Wiz Bankruptcy
 
TW, Inc. (TW), a former subsidiary of the Company and operator of The Wiz consumer retail electronics business, is the subject of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware.  In February 2005, TW filed a complaint in the bankruptcy proceeding seeking recovery of alleged preferential transfers in the aggregate amount of $193,457.  Also in February 2005, the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of TW, Inc. (the Committee) filed a motion seeking authority to assume the prosecution of TW's alleged preference claims and to prosecute certain other causes of action.  The bankruptcy court granted the Creditors Committees motion on or about March 10, 2005, thereby authorizing the Committee, on behalf of TW, to continue the preference suit and to assert other claims against the Company.  On March 12, 2005, the Creditors Committee filed a complaint in the
bankruptcy court against the Company, certain of its subsidiaries, and certain present and former officers and directors, asserting preferential transfer claims allegedly totaling $193,312 as well as various other claims.  The Company believes that all the claims asserted by TW and the Committee are without merit and intends to contest them vigorously.
 
Director Litigation
 
Cablevision has been named as a nominal defendant in a purported shareholder derivative complaint filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware.  The action is brought derivatively on behalf of Cablevision and names as additional defendants Charles F. Dolan, the Chairman of Cablevision, and Rand Araskog, Frank Biondi, John Malone and Leonard Tow, each of whom was appointed as a director on March 2, 2005 by Mr. Dolan and certain other holders of the Company's Class B Common Stock.  The complaint alleges that Charles F. Dolan, as the controlling Class B shareholder of Cablevision, by purporting to remove three Cablevision Board members (William J. Bell, Sheila Mahony and Steven Rattner) and replace them with the four new directors, wrongfully interfered with the Board's role in managing the affairs of Cablevision and sought to substitute his judgment of how to proceed with the VOOM service of Cablevision's Rainbow DBS subsidiary above that of the Board.  The action seeks, among other things, to preliminarily and permanently enjoin Charles F. Dolan from interfering with the managerial prerogatives of Cablevision's Board; rescinding the purported appointment of the new directors; rescinding the removal of Mr. Bell, Ms. Mahony and Mr. Rattner as directors and restoring them to their positions as directors and directing Charles F. Dolan to account to Cablevision for its damages.
 
New York Jets Litigation
 
On March 16, 2005, the New York Jets LLC and Jets Development LLC ("Jets") filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Cablevision, CSC Holdings, Inc., and Madison Square Garden LP.  The complaint relates to various actions allegedly taken by defendants in connection with a proposed football stadium for the Jets on the West Side of Manhattan.  Specifically, the complaint alleges:  (1) that Cablevision "possesses monopoly power in the markets for facility rental and ticket sales for large-scale events in enclosed spectator facilities and suite rentals in Manhattan" and has acted anti-competitively in violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act; (2) that defendants have tortiously interfered with the Jets' prospective business relations by making a "sham bid" for the MTA land that is the site of the proposed stadium "to injure the Jets and deprive them of an advantageous existing and prospective business relationship"; (3) that defendants have tortiously interfered with the Jets' prospective business relations with networks carried on defendants' cable system; and (4) that defendants have "engaged in deceptive and misleading conduct, including dissemination of deceptive and materially misleading advertising and preventing dissemination of accurate information," in violation of  New York General Business Law Section 349.  The Company believes that all these claims are without merit and intends to contest them vigorously.
 
Accounting Related Investigations
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York continue to conduct investigations into matters related to the improper expense recognition previously reported by the Company.  In July 2004, in connection with the Company's response to the comments of the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the Securities and Exchange Commission on the Company's filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company provided information
with respect to certain of its previous restatement adjustments relating to the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements.  The staff of the Division of Enforcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission has contacted the Company to ask for additional information on these launch support, marketing and other payments.
 
NOTE 19.
DISCLOSURES ABOUT THE FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
                                         
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash, Accounts Receivable Trade, Notes Receivable- Affiliates, Notes and Other Receivables, Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets, Advances to Affiliates, Accounts Payable, Accounts Payable-Affiliates and Accrued Liabilities.
 
The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
 
Derivative Contracts and Liabilities Under Derivative Contracts
 
Derivative contracts are carried at fair value based on dealer quotes.
 
Investments Securities and Investment Securities Pledged as Collateral
 
Marketable securities are carried at their fair value based upon quoted market prices.
 
Bank Debt, Collateralized Indebtedness, Senior Notes and Debentures, Subordinated Notes and Debentures and Redeemable Exchangeable Preferred Stock
 
The fair values of each of the Company's debt instruments and redeemable preferred stock are based on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for instruments of the same remaining maturities.
 
Interest Rate Swap Agreements
 
Interest rate swap agreements are carried at fair value based on valuations provided by a derivative valuation system using current market interest rate data.  These values represent the estimated amount the Company would receive or pay to terminate agreements, taking into consideration current interest rates.
The fair value of the Company's debt instruments are summarized as follows:
 
 
 
The Company currently consolidates a 60% majority-owned interest in a limited-life partnership.  The estimated liquidation value of the 40% minority interest is approximately $1,453,200 and $1,128,900 as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively compared to the carrying value of such minority interest of $676,647 and $578,780, respectively.
 
Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market information and information about the financial instrument. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
 
NOTE 20.
SEGMENT INFORMATION
                          
 
The Company classifies its business interests into three segments: Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of its consumer video, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol and its commercial data and voice services operations; Rainbow, consisting principally of interests in national and regional cable television programming networks including the VOOM 21 high definition channels, and Madison Square Garden, which owns and operates professional sports teams, regional cable television networks and an entertainment business.   In connection with the transaction discussed in Note 23, the VOOM 21 high definition channels have been included in the Rainbow segment.  Those channels were previously included in the Rainbow DBS segment.  Prior period segment information has been reported on a comparable basis.
 
The Company's reportable segments are strategic business units that are managed separately.  The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial
measure is business segment adjusted operating cash flow (defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization, stock plan income or expense and restructuring charges or credits).  The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies.  Information as to the operations of the Company's business segments is set forth below.
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment amounts to the Company's consolidated balances is as follows:
 
 
Substantially all revenues and assets of the Company's reportable segments are attributed to or located in the United States and are concentrated primarily in the New York metropolitan area.
NOTE 21.
INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited)
                          
 
The following is a summary of selected quarterly financial data for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003:
 
 
First quarter 2004 results include an extraordinary loss on investment, net of tax of $7,436 (see Note 3).
 
NOTE 22.
OTHER MATTERS
                          
 
In the second quarter of 2004, Madison Square Garden received $54,052 in cash in connection with the New York Mets' notice of termination of their broadcast rights agreement with Madison Square Garden.  The termination of the rights agreement was effective after the 2005 baseball season. As a result of the termination notice, the Company recorded a reversal of a purchase accounting liability of $41,788 related to this broadcast rights agreement.  These items have been reflected as other operating income in the Company's consolidated statement of operations.
 
impact on Madison Square Garden's operating results, we do not believe it would have a significant adverse impact on the Company's consolidated operating results.
adverse
Effective September 16, 2004 the National Hockey League ("NHL") commenced a lockout of the players in support of its attempt to reach a new collective bargaining agreement with the National Hockey League Players Association.  The parties failed to reach an agreement after several negotiating sessions and on February 16, 2005, the NHL announced that it had cancelled the 2004/2005 season.  We can give no assurance as to when the labor dispute will be resolved and therefore cannot determine the extent to which our 2005 operating results will be negatively impacted.  However, while a continued lockout could have a significant
 
In October 2004, Fox Sports Net Chicago's agreements with two major suppliers of distribution rights to certain live sporting events were terminated.  Fox Sports Net Chicago is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regional Programming Partners.  Fox Sports Net Chicago expects to continue its operations with content from its partners and their affiliates.  Fox Sports Net Chicago's revenues will decline in future periods as a result of the termination by two of its significant customers that declined to carry Fox Sports Net Chicago without these distribution rights agreements.
 
In December 2004, the Company's Board of Directors decided to suspend pursuing the spin-off and instead to pursue strategic alternatives for the Rainbow DBS business.  See Note 23.
 
(as of June 3, 2005)
NOTE 23.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
                          
 
Rainbow DBS
 
In January 2005, the Company's Board of Directors authorized and directed the sale of the assets of Rainbow DBS and the shutdown of its business.  On January 20, 2005, Rainbow DBS entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Rainbow 1 direct broadcast satellite and certain other related assets to a subsidiary of EchoStar Communications Corp. for $200,000 in cash.  This transaction is expected to close following receipt of regulatory approvals.  In February 2005, the Company signed a letter of intent under which VOOM HD, LLC, a new private company formed by Charles F. Dolan and Thomas C. Dolan, would acquire from the Company the business, assets and liabilities of the Company's Rainbow DBS satellite business not included in the above mentioned agreement with EchoStar.  The letter of intent between the Company and VOOM HD expired on February 28, 2005 without a definitive agreement being reached.
 
Following the expiration of the letter of intent, the Company began shutting down the Rainbow DBS operations.  In March 2005, the Company entered into an agreement with Charles F. Dolan and Thomas C. Dolan ("March 2005 Agreement") pursuant to which the parties agreed to work cooperatively to finalize the separation of Rainbow DBS from the Company.  The Company agreed that no new shutdown activities would be undertaken at Rainbow DBS during the term of the agreement.  Charles F. Dolan
agreed to fund any expenditures above those contemplated in the shutdown budget, net of March revenue earned and was required to provide to the Company cash or shares of the Company's common stock in advance of the Company making those expenditures.  Similarly, if Rainbow DBS made any new commitments or other agreements, the Company would segregate cash or shares received from Charles F. Dolan to pay the costs associated with those actions.  In March 2005, Charles F. Dolan deposited $15,000 with the Company in accordance with the March 2005 agreement.  This agreement terminated on March 31, 2005 and, in accordance with its terms, the distribution business of Rainbow DBS has been shutdown.  The Board of Directors, at a meeting on April 7, 2005, confirmed its shutdown decision and instructed management to continue to analyze whether its VOOM 21 channels could be marketed to other satellite and cable providers as part of the Company's Rainbow programming operations.  In connection with the shutdown, the Company anticipates incurring significant costs relating to early termination of various contracts, other contractual obligations, employee termination benefits and other costs.  These costs are currently estimated to range from $100,000 to $130,000.  The current estimated range of costs associated with our shutdown and exit from the Rainbow DBS distribution business is based on facts and assumptions currently known to us, but actual future shutdown and exit related costs may deviate from the current range of estimate and such deviations could be significant.  The estimated shutdown costs do not include the settlement of liabilities of the Rainbow DBS distribution business recorded on our balance sheet at March 31, 2005 of $45,800.  The Company does not expect the shutdown costs to have a material impact on its liquidity position as it is expected that these costs will be funded by the proceeds from the sale of the Rainbow 1 direct broadcast satellite to Echostar for $200,000.
 
Cash deposited by Charles F. Dolan under the March 2005 Agreement that is not used to fund costs or segregated to pay costs associated with new commitments or other agreements will be returned to him.  This estimated amount has been included in accounts payable to affiliates in the Company's consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2005.  Cash which has been and will be used to fund the incremental costs of the Rainbow DBS distribution business, net of its revenue earned that reduced the amount Charles F. Dolan was required to fund in accordance with the March 2005 Agreement, has been recorded as a deemed net equity contribution in the first quarter of 2005.  Such amounts are estimates and subject to revision upon final analysis of such amounts.
 
Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida
 
In April 2005, the Company and News Corporation restructured their ownership of Regional Programming Partners.  Regional Programming Partners was owned 60% by the Company and 40% by News Corporation.  As a result of the restructuring, the Company now owns 100% of Madison Square Garden, 100% of Fox Sports Net Chicago and 50% of Fox Sports Net New England.  In connection with the restructuring, these businesses extended the terms of their long-term affiliation agreements with Fox Sports Net and their advertising representation agreements with National Advertising Partners.
 
In connection with its December 2003 purchase of the interests that it did not own in Fox Sports Net Chicago and Fox Sports Net Bay Area, subsidiaries of Regional Programming Partners issued promissory notes in the aggregate amount of $150,000 to News Corporation.  As part of the restructuring, those promissory notes were contributed by News Corporation to Regional Programming Partners for no additional consideration and were cancelled without any payment being made on them.
 
Fox Sports Net and National Advertising Partners were owned 50% by the Company and 50% by News Corporation.  As a result of the restructuring, News Corporation now owns 100% of Fox Sports Net and National Advertising Partners, as well as Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida.
The Company and News Corporation will continue to own 60% and 40%, respectively, of Fox Sports Net Bay Area through a separate partnership.  The Company will continue to manage that network.  In connection with the restructuring, Fox Sports Net Bay Area extended the terms of its long-term affiliation agreement with Fox Sports Net and its advertising representation agreement with National Advertising Partners.
 
The Company will account for this exchange in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions and, accordingly, the Company will record the transaction with News Corporation at fair value at the date of acquisition.  The estimated fair values are currently being evaluated and to the extent that the purchase price exceeds the fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired, such excess will be allocated to goodwill.  In addition, the Company currently expects to record a gain in connection with this transaction in the second quarter of 2005.
 
Reclassifications
 
As a result of the shutdown of the Rainbow DBS distribution business and the Regional Programming Partners restructuring discussed above, the Company has reclassified certain assets and liabilities as held for sale on the consolidated balance sheets and operating results of the Rainbow DBS distribution business and Fox Sports Net Ohio and Fox Sports Net Florida have been reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. See Note 6.
 
In addition, the VOOM 21 high definition channels have been included in the Rainbow segment.  Those channels were previously included in the Rainbow DBS segment.  Prior period segment information has been reported on a comparable basis.  See Note 20.
 
EchoStar Transaction
 
In April 2005, subsidiaries of Cablevision and CSC Holdings entered into agreements with EchoStar relating to the launch and operation of the business of Rainbow HD Holdings, LLC, the Company's VOOM 21 high-definition television programming service.  Under those arrangements, EchoStar will initially distribute a portion of the Rainbow HD programming service and, beginning in 2006, if the contemplated transactions have been completed, will carry all 21 of the channels included in the Rainbow HD programming service.  In connection with the arrangements, EchoStar would be issued a 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings, the Company's subsidiary owning the 21 channels included in the Rainbow HD programming service, and that 20% interest would not be diluted until $500,000 in cash has been invested in Rainbow HD Holdings.  The issuance of the 20% interest in Rainbow HD Holdings to EchoStar and EchoStar's agreement to distribute all 21 of the channels included in the Rainbow HD programming service are subject to customary closing conditions, and the closing of the sale of the Company's Rainbow 1 satellite to EchoStar.
 
Under the terms of our affiliation arrangements with EchoStar covering our VOOM 21 high definition channels for a 15 year term, if we fail to invest $100,000 per year up to a maximum of $500,000 in the aggregate (which $100,000 amount may be reduced to no less than $38,000 if we decide in the future to reduce the number of channels) in the entity that owns and develops these channels, EchoStar may terminate the affiliation agreement.  We have the right to terminate the affiliation agreement if the VOOM 21 service is discontinued in the future.

Exhibit 99.4
 
Cablevision Systems Corporation
 
 
CSC Holdings, Inc.
 
 
Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation and for the transactions described in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Board of Directors
Cablevision Systems Corporation:
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 333-86789 and 333-71965) filed on Forms S-3 and in the registration statements (Nos. 33-05987, 33-19409, 33-36282, 333-41349, 333-79485, 333-57924, 333-36282-99, 333-41349-99, and 333-57922) filed on Forms S-8 of Cablevision Systems Corporation of our report dated March 16, 2005, except for Note 23, which is as of June 3, 2005, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' deficiency, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004,  the related financial statement schedule for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, and our report dated March 16, 2005 with respect to management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, which reports appear in the June 3, 2005 combined report on Form 8-K of Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, Inc.
 
Our report dated March 16, 2005, except for Note 23, which is as of June 3, 2005, refers to the adoption of the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 150, in the year ended December 31, 2003.
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity,
 
 

Exhibit 99.5
 
The Board of Directors
CSC Holdings, Inc.:
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statement (No. 333-71965) filed on Form S-3 and in the registration statements (Nos. 33-05987, 33-19409, 33-36282, 333-41349, and 333-79485) filed on Forms S-8 of CSC Holdings, Inc. of our report dated March 16, 2005, except for Note 23, which is as of June 3, 2005, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of CSC Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholder's deficiency, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, the related financial statement schedule for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, and our report dated March 16, 2005 with respect to management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, which reports appear in the June 3, 2005 combined report on Form 8-K of CSC Holdings, Inc. and Cablevision Systems Corporation.
 
Our report dated March 16, 2005, except for Note 23, which is as of June 3, 2005, refers to the adoption of the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 150, in the year ended December 31, 2003.
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity,
 
 


