FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20050216163301.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
            Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "Company") grants various awards to its executive officers under its Amended and Restated Employee Stock Option Plan (previously filed as Exhibit A to the Company's June 3, 2003 Proxy Statement) and its Long-Term Incentive Plan (previously filed as Exhibit B to the Company's June 3, 2003 Proxy Statement). Forms of award agreements used under the Plans are attached hereto as exhibits and are hereby incorporated by reference.
            (c)    Exhibits
            10.1   Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement
            10.2   Form of Restricted Shares Agreement
            10.3   Form of Two-Year Performance Award Agreement
            10.4   Form of Three-Year Performance Award Agreement
            10.5   Form of Deferred Compensation Agreement
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 16, 2005
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 16, 2005
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
[FULL NAME] [ADDRESS]
Dear [FIRST NAME],
               Pursuant to the Company's Employee Stock Plan (the ""), on ______ (the "") you were selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Paragraph 14, the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "") to receive nonqualified stock options (the "") to purchase ____ (___) shares of NY Group Class A Common Stock of the Company (the "") at a price of $____ per share.
Plan
Effective Date
Committee
Company
Options
Class A Common Stock
               Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Options are granted subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
               1.    . If you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or any Affiliate, the Options will become exercisable in accordance with the following schedule:
Vesting
               2.    . You may exercise the Options by giving written notice to the Secretary of the Company specifying the number of shares of Class A Common Stock as to which the Options are being exercised (the ""), together with a copy of this Agreement. Unless the Company chooses to settle such exercise in cash, shares of Class A Common Stock, or a combination thereof pursuant to Paragraph 3, you will be required to deliver to the Company within five (5) days of your delivery of the Exercise Notice, payment in full of the exercise price due on account of such exercise. You may pay the exercise price by cash, by certified check, by surrendering shares of Class A Common Stock or by any combination thereof. Class A Common Stock used to pay the exercise price pursuant to this Paragraph 2 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day preceding the date of exercise.
Exercise
Exercise Notice
               3.    . Upon receipt of the Exercise Notice, the Company may elect, in lieu of issuing shares of Class A Common Stock, to settle the exercise covered by such notice by paying you an amount equal to the product obtained by multiplying (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Class A Common Stock on the date of exercise over the per share exercise price of the Options (the "") by (ii) the number of shares of Class A Common Stock specified in the Exercise Notice. The amount payable to you in these
Option Spread
Option Spread
circumstances may be paid by the Company either in cash or in shares of Class A Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the Option Spread, or a combination thereof, as the Company shall determine. Class A Common Stock used to pay the Option Spread pursuant to this Paragraph 3 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day the Exercise Notice is received by the Company.
               4.    . The Options will terminate automatically and without further notice on the tenth (10) anniversary of the Effective Date, or at any of the following dates, if earlier:
Expiration
th
               For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, as determined by the Committee, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, please of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
               For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" means your inability to perform for six (6) continuous months substantially all the essential duties of your occupation, as determined by the Committee.
               Notwithstanding the first (1) sentence of this Paragraph 4, in the event of your death during the period that your Options are exercisable, whether death occurs before or after you cease employment, the Options that are exercisable at the time of your death shall remain exercisable by your estate or beneficiary until the first (1) anniversary of your death, whether or not such first (1) anniversary occurs prior to the tenth (10) anniversary of the Effective Date.
st
st
st
th
               5.    . As set forth in attached hereto, the Options may be affected in the event of a Change of Control (as defined in attached hereto) of the Company.
Change of Control
Appendix 1
Appendix 1
               6.    . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of exercising the Options and receiving shares of Class A Common Stock and cash. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
               If, in connection with the exercise of the Options, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
               7.    . You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Options, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions
               8.    . The Options are not intended to qualify as "incentive stock options" within the meaning of Section 422A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Non-Qualification as ISO
               9.    . In the event you shall voluntarily terminate your employment or your employment is terminated for Cause, you shall not become employed by, consult to, or have any interest, directly or indirectly, in any Competitive Entity (as defined below) within one (1) year of exercising any Options hereunder. If you shall voluntarily terminate your employment or your employment is terminated for Cause, and, in either case, subsequently become employed by, consult to, or have any interest, directly or indirectly, in a Competitive Entity during such one-year period, you shall within ten (10) business days thereof pay the Company, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the product of the Option Spread multiplied by the number of shares of Class A Common Stock with respect to which the Options were exercised during such one-year period, plus (b) interest at a rate equal to the lesser of (i) twelve percent (12%) per annum or (ii) the maximum interest rate permitted by applicable law, compounded quarterly, calculated from the date you exercised the Options until the date such payment to the Company is made. A "Competitive Entity" shall mean (1) any company that competes (including, without limitation, by means of direct broadcast satellite) with any of the Company's cable television, telephone or on-line data businesses in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined in attached hereto) or that competes with any of the Company's direct broadcast satellite, programming, cinema, sports or entertainment businesses, nationally or regionally; or (2) any trade or professional association representing any of the companies covered by this Paragraph 9, other than the National Cable Television Association and any state cable television association. Ownership of not more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding stock of any publicly-traded company shall not be a violation of this Paragraph 9.
Relationship with Competitive Entities
Appendix 1
               By accepting this Agreement, you understand that the terms and conditions of this Paragraph 9 may limit your ability to earn a livelihood in a business similar to the business of the Company, but nevertheless hereby agree that the restrictions and limitations hereof are reasonable in scope, area and duration, and that the consideration provided under the Plan and this
Agreement is sufficient to justify the restrictions and limitations contained in this Paragraph 9. Accordingly, in consideration thereof and in light of your education, skills and abilities, by participating in the Plan, you hereby agree that you will not assert, and it should not be considered, that such provisions are either unreasonable in scope, area or duration, or will prevent you from earning a living, or otherwise are void, voidable or unenforceable or should be voided or held unenforceable. You further understand and hereby agree that the restrictions and limitations contained in this Paragraph 9 are ancillary to, and part of, the Plan and this Agreement, and are reasonably necessary to protect the good will and business interests of the Company.
               You hereby agree that a breach or threatened breach on your part of the restrictions and limitations contained in this Paragraph 9 will cause such damage to the Company as will be irreparable and for that reason you further agree that the Company shall be entitled as a matter of right to an injunction or other equitable relief out of any court of competent jurisdiction, restraining any further violation of this Paragraph 9 by you. The right to injunction or other equitable relief shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other remedies the Company may have, including, specifically, recovery of money damages and any other legal or equitable relief available. You hereby waive any requirement for security or the posting of any bond or other surety and proof of damages in connection with any temporary or permanent award of injunctive or other equitable relief.
               10.    . You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the shares of Class A Common Stock are publicly-traded securities and (ii) the shares of Class A Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Options may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
Securities Law Acknowledgments
               11.    . This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects shall be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
               12.    . You hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States of America located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You hereby agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in any manner as may be permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof.
Jurisdiction and Venue
               13.    . You hereby agree that if the Company shall owe you any amount (the "") under this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset against the Company-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any amounts that you may owe to the Company or its Affiliates of whatever nature. You hereby further agree that if you shall owe the Company any amount (the "") under Paragraph 9 of this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset the Optionee-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, against any amount you may be entitled to receive from the Company or its Affiliates under this Agreement or otherwise (in-
Right of Offset
Company-Owed Amount
Optionee-Owed Amount
cluding, without limitation, any wages, vacation pay, or other compensation or benefit under any benefit plan or other compensatory arrangement).
               14.    . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
               15.    . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
               16.    . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your economic rights under this Agreement without your consent. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment
               17.    . The Options granted by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
Options Subject to the Plan
               18.    . This Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Options covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Options covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
               19.    . The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
               20.    . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
               21.    . The terms or conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
               22.    . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that all shares of Class A Common Stock and cash received upon each exercise of the Options shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares of Class A Common Stock and cash be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
               23.    . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
No Right to Continued Employment
               24.    . The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings
               25.    . Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
Effective Date
               26.    . Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures
               By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
_____________________________ Optionee:  ______________________
               In the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company or a "going private transaction," as defined below, your entitlement to exercise the Options shall be as follows:
               1.    If the Company or the "surviving entity", as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, to the extent that the Options have not been exercised and have not expired (the ""), no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of common shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options multiplied by (ii) the excess of (x) the "offer price per share," the "acquisition price per share" or the "merger price per share," each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable, over (y) the exercise price of the shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options, or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you in substitution for your Outstanding Options an award of options for shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms with a value equivalent to the Outstanding Options and which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
Outstanding Options
               2.    If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Section 1(A) above.
               3.    The cash award provided in Section 1 or 2 shall become payable to you, and the substitute options of the surviving entity provided in Section 1 will become exercisable (1) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were not exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, at the earlier of (a) the date on which the Outstanding Options would otherwise have become exercisable hereunder had they continued in effect, or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for "good reason," as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (2) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, the substitute options shall become exercisable immediately and the cash awards shall become payable promptly. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving en-
tity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
               4.    As used herein,
               "Change of Control" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. Net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "New York City Metropolitan Area" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
               "Surviving entity" means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a "") which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Company's cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Section 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of "substantially all" the Company's New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
parent entity
               "Going private transaction" means a transaction described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
               "Good reason" means
               (i)    without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Effective Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
               (ii)    any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
               (iii)    the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
               (iv)    any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Section 1.
               "Offer price per share" shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Offer
               "Merger price per share" shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ""), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger
               "Acquisition price per share" shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Company's voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.

EXHIBIT 10.2
[Full Name of Employee]
[Address]
[Date]
Dear [First Name]:
        Pursuant to the Company's Employee Stock Plan (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Section 13, the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "") to receive _____ (___) restricted shares ("") of NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("") effective as of October 1, 2004 (the "").
Plan
Committee
Company
Restricted Shares
Common Shares
Grant Date
        Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Restricted Shares are subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.     . You are required to pay the Company the aggregate par value amount of the Restricted Shares no later than forty-five (45) business days from the Grant Date. The total par value amount of your Restricted Shares is $______ (the ""). If we do not receive this payment in time, you consent to and authorize the deduction of such amount from your salary.
Consideration
Par Value Amount
2.     None of your Restricted Shares will vest and you will forfeit all of them if you do not remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Grant Date through the fourth (4) anniversary of the Grant Date, except that a portion of your Restricted Shares may vest sooner if you are terminated without Cause (as defined below) or, in accordance with Section 4, die or become disabled (as defined in Section 4).
Vesting.
th
        For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means, as determined by the Committee, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, please of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
nolo contendere
3.     If the Company or one of its Affiliates terminates your employment without Cause after the second (2) anniversary and before the third (3) anniversary of the Grant Date, twenty-five percent (25%) of the Restricted Shares will vest as of the termination date (.., the last date of your employment with the Company or one of its Affiliates) and the balance of the Restricted Shares will be immediately forfeited. If the Company or one of its Affiliates terminates your employment without Cause on or after the third (3) anniversary and before the fourth (4) anniversary of the Grant Date, fifty percent (50%) of the Restricted Shares will vest as of the termination date and the balance of the Restricted Shares will be immediately forfeited. As a condition to the accelerated vesting provided for in this Sec-
Accelerated Vesting for Termination Without Cause.
nd
rd
i
e
rd
th
tion 3, you will be required to sign and deliver a waiver and release substantially in the form attached as hereto; it being understood and agreed by you, however, that the Company reserves the right to amend the form of waiver and release from time to time to make such changes as the Company shall reasonably determine are either necessary or desirable including, without limitation, changes that may be required to reflect changes in law. In the event that the waiver and release covered by this Section 3 is required to be signed and delivered, the Company shall have no obligation under this Agreement or the Plan to take any action unless and until the waiver and release is fully effective and all rights to revoke, withdraw or otherwise terminate such waiver and release have expired or otherwise terminated.
Annex 2
4.     If your employment is terminated as a result of your death or disability, a portion of the Restricted Shares equal to the product of (i) the number of your Restricted Shares multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months you were employed from the Grant Date until your termination date and the denominator of which is forty-eight (48), will vest as of the termination date and the balance of the Restricted Shares will be immediately forfeited. In the event of your death, your estate will be entitled to the Restricted Shares that have vested.
Accelerated Vesting in the Event of Death or Disability.
        For purposes of this Agreement, "disability" means your inability to perform for six (6) continuous months substantially all the essential duties of your occupation, as determined by the Committee.
5.     As set forth in attached hereto, your entitlement to Restricted Shares may be affected in the event of a Change of Control of the Company (as defined in attached hereto).
Change of Control.
Annex 1
Annex 1
6.     . In the event that you shall voluntarily terminate your employment or your employment is terminated for Cause, you shall not become employed by, consult to, or have any interest, directly or indirectly, in any Competitive Entity (as defined below) within one (1) year after your Restricted Shares have vested. If you shall voluntarily terminate your employment or your employment is terminated for Cause, and, in either case, subsequently become employed by, consult to, or have any interest, directly or indirectly, in a Competitive Entity during such one-year period, you shall within ten (10) business days thereof pay the Company, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, an amount equal to (a) the gain (whether or not realized) attributable to the vesting of the Restricted Shares, plus (b) interest at a rate equal to the lesser of (i) twelve percent (12%) per annum or (ii) the maximum interest rate permitted by applicable law, compounded quarterly, calculated from the date the Restricted Shares vested until the date such payment to the Company is made. Such gain shall be equal to the greater of the (y) positive difference, if any, between the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares on the date such shares vest and the Par Value Amount paid for the Restricted Shares or (z) positive difference, if any, between the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares on your first (1) day of employment by the Competitive Entity and the Par Value Amount paid for such shares. A "Competitive Entity" shall mean (1) any company that competes (including, without limitation, by means of direct broadcast satellite) with any of the Company's cable television, telephone or on-line data businesses in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined in attached hereto) or that competes with any of the Company's direct broadcast satellite, programming, cinema, sports or entertainment businesses, nationally or regionally; or (2) any
Relationship with Competitive Entities
st
Annex 1
trade or professional association representing any of the companies covered by this Section 6, other than the National Cable Television Association and any state cable television association. Ownership of not more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding stock of any publicly-traded company shall not be a violation of this Section 6.
        By accepting this Agreement, you understand that the terms and conditions of this Section 6 may limit your ability to earn a livelihood in a business similar to the business of the Company, but nevertheless hereby agree that the restrictions and limitations hereof are reasonable in scope, area and duration, and that the consideration provided under the Plan and this Agreement is sufficient to justify the restrictions and limitations contained in this Section 6. Accordingly, in consideration thereof and in light of your education, skills and abilities, by participating in the Plan, you hereby agree that you will not assert, and it should not be considered, that such provisions are either unreasonable in scope, area or duration, or will prevent you from earning a living, or otherwise are void, voidable or unenforceable or should be voided or held unenforceable. You further understand and hereby agree that the restrictions and limitations contained in this Section 6 are ancillary to, and part of, the Plan and this Agreement, and are reasonably necessary to protect the good will and business interests of the Company.
        You hereby agree that a breach or threatened breach on your part of the restrictions and limitations contained in this Section 6 will cause such damage to the Company as will be irreparable and for that reason you further agree that the Company shall be entitled as a matter of right to an injunction or other equitable relief out of any court of competent jurisdiction, restraining any further violation of this Section 6 by you. The right to injunction or other equitable relief shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other remedies the Company may have, including, specifically, recovery of money damages and any other legal or equitable relief available. You hereby waive any requirement for security or the posting of any bond or other surety and proof of damages in connection with any temporary or permanent award of injunctive or other equitable relief.
7.     You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Restricted Shares, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions.
8.     You have full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Shares. All dividends and distributions paid on your Restricted Shares will be retained by the Company for your account until your Restricted Shares vest and such dividends and distributions will be paid to you (without interest) when your Restricted Shares vest.
Right to Vote and Receive Dividends.
9.     If you wish to make an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, to recognize income with respect to the Restricted Shares before they become vested, you must file a Section 83(b) election with the Internal Revenue Service of the Grant Date and provide a copy of that filing to the Company. You are strongly encouraged to seek the advice of a tax consultant regarding the advisability of making a Section 83(b) election. A Sample Form of Election under Section 83(b) is attached for your reference as .
Section 83(b) Election.
within thirty (30) days
You should note that any taxes you pay as a result of your Section 83(b) election cannot be recovered if your Restricted Shares are forfeited or decline in value. It is your sole responsibility to timely file an election under Section 83(b). You must notify the Company within ten (10) days of filing any such election.
Annex 3
10.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Restricted Shares. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
        If, in connection with the Restricted Shares, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
11.     Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, delivery of the Restricted Shares will be by book-entry credit to an account in your name that the Company has established at a custody agent (the ""). The Company's transfer agent, Mellon Investor Services LLC, shall act as the custodian of the Restricted Shares; , the Company may in its sole discretion appoint another custodian to replace Mellon Investor Services LLC. On the date your Restricted Shares vest, if you have complied with your obligations under this Agreement and that your tax obligations with respect to the vested Restricted Shares are appropriately satisfied, at your request, we will either instruct the custodian to electronically transfer your Common Shares to a brokerage or other account you specify or deliver to you a physical stock certificate representing your Common Shares.
Delivery.
custodian
however
provided
12.     You hereby agree that if the Company shall have any obligation to you (the ") under this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset against the Company Obligation, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any amounts that you may owe to the Company or its Affiliates of whatever nature. You hereby further agree that if you shall owe the Company any amount (the "") under Section 6 of this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset the Optionee-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, against any obligation from the Company or its Affiliates to you under this Agreement or otherwise (including, without limitation, any wages, vacation pay, or other compensation or benefit under any benefit plan or other compensatory arrangement).
Right of Offset.
"Company Obligation
Optionee-Owed Amount
13.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
14.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
15.     The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your economic rights under this Agreement without your consent. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment.
16.     The Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
Restricted Shares Subject to the Plan.
17.     This Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Restricted Shares and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Restricted Shares, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement.
18.     The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
19.     This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
20.     You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
Jurisdiction and Venue.
21.     . You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the Common Shares are publicly-traded securities and (ii) Common Shares may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
Securities Law Acknowledgments
22.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
23.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
24.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Restricted Shares covered hereby shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
25.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
No Right to Continued Employment
26.     The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings.
27.     Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Grant Date.
Effective Date.
28.     Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures.
        By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (iii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
__________________________ Name:
In the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company or a "going private transaction," as defined below, your entitlement to Restricted Shares shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the "surviving entity," as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of your unvested Restricted Shares multiplied by (ii) the "offer price per share," the "acquisition price per share" or the "merger price per share," each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you an award of shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms and with a value equivalent to your unvested Restricted Shares which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Paragraph 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Paragraph 1 or 2 shall become payable to you at the earlier of (a) the date on which your Restricted Shares are scheduled to vest, or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for "good reason," as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in
Change of Control
clause (1)     above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. Net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
"" means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a "") which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Company's cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Paragraph 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Paragraph 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of "" the Company's New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Surviving entity
parent entity
substantially all
"" means a transaction described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going private transaction
"Good reason" means
        a.    without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
        b.     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
        c.     the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
        d.     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Paragraph 1.
"" shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per Share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Offer price per share
Offer
"" shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ""), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share
Merger
"" shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Company's voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
Acquisition price per share
        In consideration of Cablevision Systems Corporation's (the "") offer to accelerate the vesting of my Restricted Shares under Section 3 of the Restricted Shares Agreement dated ___________________ (the "") between the Company and me, I hereby for myself, and my heirs, agents, executors, successors, assigns and administrators (collectively, the ""), knowingly and voluntarily forever waive and release the Company and all of its past and/or present affiliates, directors, officers, employees, fiduciaries, representatives, successors and assigns, whether in their individual or representative capacities (collectively, the ""), from any and all claims, rights and causes of action whatsoever (""), in law or in equity, whether known or unknown, asserted or unasserted, suspected or unsuspected, that I or any Related Party ever had, may have in the future or have now in connection with or arising from or in any way related to my employment relationship with the Company or any of its Affiliates, or termination of my employment relationship with the Company or any of its Affiliates including, without limitation:
Company
Agreement
Related Parties
Releasees
Claims
        Nothing herein shall be construed to affect the right of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ("") to enforce the ADEA or to interfere with the protected right to file a charge or participate in an EEOC investigation of proceeding.
EEOC
        This Waiver and Release is intended to comply with the provisions of the OWBPA. By execution of this Waiver and Release, I hereby expressly waive any and all Claims under the OWBPA and hereby acknowledge that:
        (a)     My waiver of rights or Claims arising under the ADEA is in writing and is understood by me;
        (b)     The waiver of my rights or Claims existing under the ADEA is in exchange for the Company having entered into the Agreement;
        (c)     The Company advised me in writing to consult with attorneys of my choosing prior to executing this Waiver and Release and I have in fact done so;
        (d)     I have been advised by the Company that I am entitled to revoke this Waiver and Release within seven (7) days after its execution and that this Waiver and Release shall not become effective or enforceable until the aforesaid seven (7) day revocation period has expired; and
        (e)     I hereby acknowledge that this Waiver and Release is not requested in connection with any existing incentive or other employment termination program.
        I hereby represent and warrant to the Releasees that (i) I have carefully read and fully understand all the provisions and effects of this Waiver and Release, (ii) I have had a period of at least twenty-one (21) days within which to consider this Waiver and Release, (iii) I have signed and returned this Waiver and Release knowingly and voluntarily and in the absence of any force or compulsion on the part of any of the Releasees and after having been advised in
writing to consult with my attorney and (iv) none of the Releasees has made any representations or warranties concerning either the terms and provisions or effects of this Waiver and Release.
        I hereby acknowledge that this Waiver and Release shall take effect eight (8) days following its execution (the ""), unless revoked by me as hereinafter provided. I hereby further acknowledge that I may revoke this Waiver and Release unilaterally prior to the Effective Date by notifying the Company in writing, of my decision to revoke this Waiver and Release and said notice must be received by the Company no later than the seventh (7th) day following my execution of this Waiver and Release. I understand that if I revoke and cancel this Waiver and Release, I will not be entitled to the accelerated vesting provided by Section 3 of the Agreement.
Effective Date
        Should any term or provision of this Waiver and Release be declared or be determined by any court to be illegal or invalid, the validity of the remaining terms and provisions, including the release of all Claims, shall not be affected thereby and said illegal or invalid term or provision shall be modified by the court so as to be legal or, if not reasonably feasible, shall be deleted. This Waiver and Release sets forth the entire agreement concerning the release of all Claims by me against the Releasees and may not be modified except by a writing signed by me and the Company.
        I HEREBY CONFIRM THAT I HAVE CAREFULLY READ THE FOREGOING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS WAIVER AND RELEASE, THAT I KNOW AND UNDERSTAND THE CONTENTS AND EFFECT OF THIS WAIVER AND RELEASE, THAT I HAVE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO CONSULT COUNSEL WITH RESPECT TO THE LEGAL EFFECT OF THIS WAIVER AND RELEASE, AND THAT MY EXECUTION OF THIS WAIVER AND RELEASE IS A VOLUNTARY ACT.
        
I HEREBY VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE ANY RIGHT I MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY COURT HAVING JURISDICTION OVER THE MATTER WITH RESPECT TO ANY ACTION, COUNTERCLAIM OR DEFENSE ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS WAIVER AND RELEASE.
        I represent that I have not filed, and will not hereafter file, any Claim against the Company or its Affiliates relating to my employment and/or cessation of my employment with the Company or its Affiliates, or otherwise involving facts that occurred on or prior to the date I sign this Waiver and Release.
        I understand and agree that if I commence, continue, join in, or in any other manner attempt to assert any Claim released herein against the Company or its Affiliates, or otherwise violate the terms of this Waiver and Release, (i) I will cease to have any right to accelerated vesting of my Restricted Shares pursuant to Section 3 of the Agreement, (ii) to the extent that the Common Shares have already been delivered to me pursuant to the Agreement, I will pay the Company, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, promptly upon notice, an amount equal to (a) the gain (whether or not realized) attributable to the vesting of the Restricted Shares, plus (b) interest at a rate equal to the lesser of (i) twelve percent (12%) per annum or (ii) the maximum interest rate permitted by applicable law, compounded quarterly, calculated from the date the Restricted Shares vested until the date such payment to the Company is made. Such gain shall be determined as of the date the Restricted Shares vest as the positive difference, if any, between the Fair Market Value of such shares on the vesting date and the par value amount paid for the Restricted Shares, and (iii) I agree to reimburse the Company for all attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by it in defending against such a Claim, that the right to receive the foregoing
provided
payments is without prejudice to the other rights of the Company hereunder, including any waiver and release of any and all Claims against the Company .
        I understand and agree that the signing of this Waiver and Release by me does not in any way indicate that I have any viable Claim against the Company or any of its Affiliates, or that the Company or any of its Affiliates admits any liability to me whatsoever.
        This Waiver and Release shall be binding upon me and my heirs, executors, administrators, personal representatives and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of the Releasees.
        This Waiver and Release shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York to the extent not preempted by applicable Federal law.
        Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings given to them in the Agreement.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I executed this Waiver and Release, this ____ day of _________________
Pursuant to Sections 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Treasury Regulation 1.83-2, the undersigned taxpayer hereby elects to include in taxpayer's gross income or alternative minimum taxable income, as the case may be, the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the Property (as hereinafter defined) at the time of transfer over the amount the taxpayer paid for such Property. The following information is furnished in accordance with Treasury Regulations Section 1.83-2(e).
1.   The name, address and taxpayer identification number of the undersigned are     as follows:     Name of TAXPAYER:                           SPOUSE:     Address:     Social Security No. TAXPAYER:               SPOUSE:2.   The property with respect to which the election is made (the "") is     described as follows: restricted shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A     Common Stock of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "").3.   The election is made for the 200_ calendar year with respect to the     Property. The date on which the Property was transferred is     _______________________         (Grant Date)4.   The Property is subject to the following restrictions: The Property may not     be transferred and is subject to continued employment by the taxpayer with     the Company through ____________________________________. These                          (Fourth Anniversary of Grant Date)     restrictions lapse upon the satisfaction of certain conditions contained in     an agreement entered into by the Company with the taxpayer.5.   The fair market value at the time of transfer, determined without regard to     any restriction other than a restriction which by its terms will never     lapse, of such Property is: $______________________.6.   The amount (if any) paid for such Property is $_________________                                                       (Par Value)
Property
Company
The undersigned has submitted a copy of this statement to the person for whom the services were performed in connection with the undersigned's receipt of the above-described Property. The undersigned understands that the foregoing election may not be revoked except with the consent of the Commissioner.
The undersigned spouse of taxpayer joins in this election.

EXHIBIT 10.3
[Full Name of Employee]
[Address]
[February __, 2005]
Dear [First Name]:
        Pursuant to the Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as defined in Section 12 below) to receive a contingent cash award (the "") of _________________ Dollars ($_______) effective as of the close of business on February __, 2005 (the "").
Plan
Company
Award
Effective Date
        Capitalized terms used, but not defined, in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.     The Award will be paid to you on March 1, 2007 , that (i) the net revenue and adjusted operating cash flow performance objectives set forth on hereto (the "") have been attained and (ii) you have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through March 1, 2007.
Payment of Award.
provided
Annex 1
Objectives
2.     If (i) the Company or one of its Affiliates terminates your employment for Cause (as defined below) at any time or (ii) prior to January 1, 2006 you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates for any reason, other than as a result of your death or Disability (as defined below), then you will automatically forfeit all of your rights and interest in the Award regardless of whether the Objectives are ultimately attained.
Termination for Cause and Certain Other Employment Termination Events Prior to January 1, 2006.
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, as determined by the Committee, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an Affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall have the meaning specified in Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the "IRC").
Disability
3.     If on or after January 1, 2006 you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates for any reason, other than as a result of the termination of your employment by the Company or one of its Affiliates for Cause or by reason of your death or Disability, then on March 1, 2007 you will be paid the
Employment Termination Events On or After January 1, 2006.
Applicable Portion (as defined below) of the Award , that (i) the Objectives are attained; (ii) you have fully complied with all of your obligations set forth in this Agreement, including, without limitation, the covenants set forth in Section 6 below; and (iii) you have executed and delivered to the Company a separation agreement to the Company's satisfaction (which agreement shall include, without limitation, non-disparagement, non-solicitation, confidentiality and further cooperation obligations/restrictions on you, as well as a general release by you of the Company and its Affiliates).
provided
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" means a dollar amount equal to twelve twenty-fourths (12/24) of the Award if the effective date of the termination of your employment with the Company or one of its Affiliates is January 1, 2006, which amount shall thereafter increase by one twenty-fourth (1/24) on the first day of each subsequent calendar month (through and including January 1, 2007) that you remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates through the effective date of the termination of your employment.
Applicable Portion
4.     If at any time your employment with the Company or one of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your Disability or death then you or your estate, as the case may be, will receive, promptly following the date of such termination, payment of the Award regardless of whether the Objectives have been attained.
Disability or Death.
5.     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if at any time a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company occurs, whether or not the Objectives have been attained, you will be entitled to the following:
Change of Control Event.
        a.    If immediately prior to the Change of Control:
               i    you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, you shall be entitled to full payment of the Award in accordance with Section 5(b) below; or
               ii    you are not then employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, you shall be entitled to full payment of the Applicable Portion of the Award (to the extent your termination of employment qualified for an Applicable Portion under Section 3 above) in accordance with Section 5(b) below.
        b.    If the actual Change of Control event:
               i    is a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC or payment of the Award promptly upon such event is otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the Award), then the applicable amount set forth under Section 5(a) above shall be paid to you by the Company promptly following the Change of Control; or
               ii    is not a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC and payment of the Award promptly upon such event is not otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the Award), then the applicable amount set forth under Section
5(a) above shall be paid to you by the Company (together with interest thereon pursuant to Section 5(c) below) on the earliest to occur of:
        c.    Upon any Change of Control, to the extent any amounts are due to be paid to you at a later date pursuant to Section 5(b)(ii) above, the Company shall promptly following the Change of Control set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to Section 5(b)(ii) above. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of the Change of Control and shall adjust annually based on the average of such rate for the ten business days prior to each anniversary of the Change of Control.
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (i) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined below) or (ii) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (i) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. Net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants.
Change of Control
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
6.     . In the event you shall voluntarily terminate your employment on or after January 1, 2006 such that you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates or your employment is terminated at any time by the Company or one of its Affiliates for Cause, you shall not become employed by, consult to, or have any interest, directly or indirectly, in any Competitive Entity from the effective date of such termination of your employment through the one-year anniversary of your receipt or scheduled receipt of the Award or any portion thereof. If you shall voluntarily terminate your employment such that you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, and subsequently breach the restriction contained in the immediately preceding sentence, you shall within ten (10) business days thereof pay the Company, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, an amount equal to (i) the Award or portion paid to you plus (ii) interest at a rate equal to the lesser of (a) twelve percent (12%) per annum or (b) the maximum interest rate permitted by applicable law, compounded quarterly, calculated from the date the Award or portion thereof was paid until the date such payment to the Company is made.
Relationship with Competitive Entities
        For purposes of this Agreement, a "" shall mean (1) any company that competes (including, without limitation, by means of direct broadcast satellite) with any of the Company's cable television, telephone or on-line data businesses in the New York City Metropolitan Area or that competes with any of the Company's direct broadcast satellite, programming, cinema, sports or entertainment businesses, nationally or regionally; or (2) any trade or professional association representing any of the companies covered by this Section 6, other than the National Cable Television Association and any state cable television association. Ownership of not more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding stock of any publicly-traded company shall not be a violation of this Section 6.
Competitive Entity
        By accepting this Agreement, you understand that the terms and conditions of this Section 6 may limit your ability to earn a livelihood in a business similar to the business of the Company, but nevertheless hereby agree that the restrictions and limitations hereof are reasonable in scope, area and duration, and that the consideration provided under the Plan and this Agreement is sufficient to justify the restrictions and limitations contained in this Section 6. Accordingly, in consideration thereof and in light of your education, skills and abilities, by participating in the Plan, you hereby agree that you will not assert, and it should not be considered, that such provisions are either unreasonable in scope, area or duration, or will prevent you from earning a living, or otherwise are void, voidable or unenforceable or should be voided or held unenforceable. You further understand and hereby agree that the restrictions and limitations contained in this Section 6 are ancillary to, and part of, the Plan and this Agreement, and are reasonably necessary to protect the good will and business interests of the Company.
        You hereby agree that a breach or threatened breach on your part of the restrictions and limitations contained in this Section 6 will cause such damage to the Company as will be irreparable and for that reason you further agree that the Company shall be entitled as a matter of right to an injunction or other equitable relief out of any court of competent jurisdiction, restraining any further violation of this Section 6 by you. The right to injunction or other equitable relief shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other remedies the Company may have, including, specifically, recovery of money damages and any other legal or equitable relief available. You hereby waive any requirement for security or the posting of any bond or other surety and proof of damages in connection with any temporary or permanent award of injunctive or other equitable relief.
Except for a right which has accrued to receive a payment on account of the Award, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect on March 2, 2007. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Section 6 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
7.     Termination.
8.     You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Award other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions.
9.     . The Plan will at all times be unfunded and, except as set forth in Section 5(c) of this Agreement, no provision will at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company or any of its Affiliates for payment of any benefits under the Plan, including, without limitation, those covered by this Agreement. Your right or that of your estate to receive payments under this Agreement shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, including any rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 5(c). Neither you nor your estate shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company other than the assets held by the rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 5(c).
Unfunded Obligation
10.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Award. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents. If, in connection with the Award, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
11.     You hereby agree that if the Company shall owe you any amount (the "") under this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset against the Company-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any amounts that you may owe to the Company or its Affiliates of whatever nature. You hereby further agree that if you shall owe the Company any amount (the "") under Section 6 above, then the Company shall have the right to offset the Employee-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, against any amount you may be entitled to receive from the Company or any of its Affiliates under this Agreement or otherwise (including, without limitation, any wages, vacation pay, or other compensation or benefit under any benefit plan or other compensatory arrangement).
Right of Offset.
Company-Owed Amount
Employee-Owed Amount
12.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
Committee
13.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
14.     The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your economic rights under this Agreement without your consent. Any amendment of this
Amendment.
Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
15.     The Award and all other amounts payable hereunder are subject to the Plan.
Award Subject to the Plan.
16.     This Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Award and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict between this Agreement and the Plan with respect to the terms and conditions of the Award, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall have superior authority.
Entire Agreement.
17.     The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
18.     This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
19.     You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
Jurisdiction and Venue.
20.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
21.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
22.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Award shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that the Award shall be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
23.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any
No Right to Continued Employment
Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
24.     The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings.
25.     Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
Effective Date.
26.     Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures.
        By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
___________________________________ Name:

EXHIBIT 10.4
[Full Name of Employee]
[Address]
[February __, 2005]
Dear [First Name]:
        Pursuant to the Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as defined in Section 12 below) to receive a contingent cash award (the "") of _________________ Dollars ($_______) effective as of the close of business on February __, 2005 (the "").
Plan
Company
Award
Effective Date
        Capitalized terms used, but not defined, in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.     The Award will be paid to you on March 1, 2008 , that (i) the net revenue and adjusted operating cash flow performance objectives set forth on hereto (the "") have been attained and (ii) you have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through March 1, 2008.
Payment of Award.
provided
Annex 1
Objectives
2.     If (i) the Company or one of its Affiliates terminates your employment for Cause (as defined below) at any time or (ii) prior to July 1, 2006 you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates for any reason, other than as a result of your death or Disability (as defined below), then you will automatically forfeit all of your rights and interest in the Award regardless of whether the Objectives are ultimately attained.
Termination for Cause and Certain Other Employment Termination Events Prior to July 1, 2006.
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, as determined by the Committee, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an Affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall have the meaning specified in Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the "IRC").
Disability
3.     If on or after July 1, 2006 you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates for any reason, other than as a result of the termination of your employment by the Company or one of its Affiliates for Cause or by reason of your death or Disability, then on March 1, 2008 you will be paid the Applicable
Employment Termination Events On or After July 1, 2006.
Portion (as defined below) of the Award , that (i) the Objectives are attained; (ii) you have fully complied with all of your obligations set forth in this Agreement, including, without limitation, the covenants set forth in Section 6 below; and (iii) you have executed and delivered to the Company a separation agreement to the Company's satisfaction (which agreement shall include, without limitation, non-disparagement, non-solicitation, confidentiality and further cooperation obligations/restrictions on you, as well as a general release by you of the Company and its Affiliates).
provided
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" means a dollar amount equal to eighteen thirty-sixths (18/36) of the Award if the effective date of the termination of your employment with the Company or one of its Affiliates is July 1, 2006, which amount shall thereafter increase by one thirty-sixth (1/36) on the first day of each subsequent calendar month (through and including January 1, 2008) that you remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates through the effective date of the termination of your employment.
Applicable Portion
4.     If at any time your employment with the Company or one of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your Disability or death then you or your estate, as the case may be, will receive, promptly following the date of such termination, payment of the Award regardless of whether the Objectives have been attained.
Disability or Death.
5.     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if at any time a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company occurs, whether or not the Objectives have been attained, you will be entitled to the following:
Change of Control Event.
        a.    If immediately prior to the Change of Control:
                i    you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, you shall be entitled to full payment of the Award in accordance with Section 5(b) below; or
                ii    you are not then employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, you shall be entitled to full payment of the Applicable Portion of the Award (to the extent your termination of employment qualified for an Applicable Portion under Section 3 above) in accordance with Section 5(b) below.
        b.    If the actual Change of Control event:
                i    is a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC or payment of the Award promptly upon such event is otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the Award), then the applicable amount set forth under Section
5(a) above shall be paid to you by the Company promptly following the Change of Control; or
                ii    is not a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC and payment of the Award promptly upon such event is not otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the Award), then the applicable amount set forth under Section 5(a) above shall be paid to you by the Company (together with interest thereon pursuant to Section 5(c) below) on the earliest to occur of:
        c.    Upon any Change of Control, to the extent any amounts are due to be paid to you at a later date pursuant to Section 5(b)(ii) above, the Company shall promptly following the Change of Control set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to Section 5(b)(ii) above. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of the Change of Control and shall adjust annually based on the average of such rate for the ten business days prior to each anniversary of the Change of Control.
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (i) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined below) or (ii) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (i) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. Net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants.
Change of Control
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
6.     . In the event you shall voluntarily terminate your employment on or after July 1, 2006 such that you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates or your employment is terminated at any time by the Company or one of its Affiliates for Cause, you shall not become employed by, consult to, or have any interest, directly or indirectly, in any Competitive Entity from the effective date of such termination of your employment through the one-year anniversary of your receipt or scheduled receipt of the Award or any portion thereof. If you shall voluntarily terminate your employment such that you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, and subsequently breach the restriction contained in the immediately preceding sentence, you shall within ten (10) business days thereof pay the Company, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, an amount equal to (i) the Award or portion paid to you plus (ii) interest at a rate equal to the lesser of (a) twelve percent (12%) per annum or (b) the maximum interest rate permitted by applicable law, compounded quarterly, calculated from the date the Award or portion thereof was paid until the date such payment to the Company is made.
Relationship with Competitive Entities
        For purposes of this Agreement, a "" shall mean (1) any company that competes (including, without limitation, by means of direct broadcast satellite) with any of the Company's cable television, telephone or on-line data businesses in the New York City Metropolitan Area or that competes with any of the Company's direct broadcast satellite, programming, cinema, sports or entertainment businesses, nationally or regionally; or (2) any trade or professional association representing any of the companies covered by this Section 6, other than the National Cable Television Association and any state cable television association. Ownership of not more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding stock of any publicly-traded company shall not be a violation of this Section 6.
Competitive Entity
        By accepting this Agreement, you understand that the terms and conditions of this Section 6 may limit your ability to earn a livelihood in a business similar to the business of the Company, but nevertheless hereby agree that the restrictions and limitations hereof are reasonable in scope, area and duration, and that the consideration provided under the Plan and this Agreement is sufficient to justify the restrictions and limitations contained in this Section 6. Accordingly, in consideration thereof and in light of your education, skills and abilities, by participating in the Plan, you hereby agree that you will not assert, and it should not be considered, that such provisions are either unreasonable in scope, area or duration, or will prevent you from earning a living, or otherwise are void, voidable or unenforceable or should be voided or held unenforceable. You further understand and hereby agree that the restrictions and limitations contained in this Section 6 are ancillary to, and part of, the Plan and this Agreement, and are reasonably necessary to protect the good will and business interests of the Company.
        You hereby agree that a breach or threatened breach on your part of the restrictions and limitations contained in this Section 6 will cause such damage to the Company as will be irreparable and for that reason you further agree that the Company shall be entitled as a matter of right to an injunction or other equitable relief out of any court of competent jurisdiction, restraining any further violation of this Section 6 by you. The right to injunction or other equitable relief shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other remedies the Company may have, including, specifically, recovery of money damages and any other legal or equitable relief available. You hereby waive any requirement for security or the posting of any bond or other surety and proof of damages in connection with any temporary or permanent award of injunctive or other equitable relief.
7.     Except for a right which has accrued to receive a payment on account of the Award, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect on March 2, 2008. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Section 6 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Termination.
8.     You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Award other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions.
9.     . The Plan will at all times be unfunded and, except as set forth in Section 5(c) of this Agreement, no provision will at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company or any of its Affiliates for payment of any benefits under the Plan, including, without limitation, those covered by this Agreement. Your right or that of your estate to receive payments under this Agreement shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, including any rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 5(c). Neither you nor your estate shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company other than the assets held by the rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 5(c).
Unfunded Obligation
10.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Award. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents. If, in connection with the Award, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
11.     You hereby agree that if the Company shall owe you any amount (the "") under this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset against the Company-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any amounts that you may owe to the Company or its Affiliates of whatever nature. You hereby further agree that if you shall owe the Company any amount (the "") under Section 6 above, then the Company shall have the right to offset the Employee-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, against any amount you may be entitled to receive from the Company or any of its Affiliates under this Agreement or otherwise (including, without limitation, any wages, vacation pay, or other compensation or benefit under any benefit plan or other compensatory arrangement).
Right of Offset.
Company-Owed Amount
Employee-Owed Amount
12.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
Committee
13.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
14.     The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your economic rights under this Agreement without your consent. Any amendment of this
Amendment.
Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
15.     The Award and all other amounts payable hereunder are subject to the Plan.
Award Subject to the Plan.
16.     This Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Award and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict between this Agreement and the Plan with respect to the terms and conditions of the Award, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall have superior authority.
Entire Agreement.
17.     The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
18.     This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
19.     You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
Jurisdiction and Venue.
20.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
21.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
22.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Award shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that the Award shall be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
23.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any
No Right to Continued Employment
Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
24.     The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings.
25.     Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
Effective Date.
26.     Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures.
        By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
________________________________ Name:

EXHIBIT 10.5
[Full Name of Employee]
[Address]
[Date]
Dear [First Name]:
        Pursuant to the Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Section 16, the "") to receive a cash award in the initial base amount of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) (such amount as increased or decreased in the manner hereinafter provided, the "") effective as of October 1, 2004 (the "").
Plan
Company
Committee
Award Amount
Effective Date
        Capitalized terms used, but not defined, in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. Your receipt of the Award Amount is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.     . The Award Amount shall be increased on each of the first seven (7) anniversary dates of the Effective Date by an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) twenty percent (20%) of your annual base salary as in effect on the applicable anniversary date, and (ii) One Hundred and Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000), ,that you have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates through such anniversary dates.
Annual Award Amount Increases
provided
2.     . The Award Amount shall earn interest ("") at the rate of two and four-tenths percent (2.40%) per annum for the period ending on September 30, 2005. For each subsequent twelve (12)-month period included within the period ending on September 30, 2011, the Award Amount shall earn Award Interest at the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed-rate equivalent for the ten (10) business days immediately preceding the first day (.., October 1) of such twelve (12)-month period.
Interest
Award Interest
i
e
st
        Award Interest shall be added to the Award Amount on a quarterly basis commencing on January 1, 2005 and continuing on the first day of each subsequent quarterly period through and including October 1, 2011 (""). The amount of Award Interest added to the Award Amount on each Interest Payment Date shall be calculated by reference to the Award Amount (including prior Award Interest) outstanding on the day immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.
Interest Payment Dates
3.     If you have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through the fifth (5) anniversary thereof, then you will receive, promptly following such anniversary, a cash payment (the "") equal to fifty percent (50%) of the Award Amount outstanding on the fifth (5) anniversary of the Effective Date after giving effect to the increases
Award Payment on 5 and 7 Anniversaries.
th
th
th
Fifth Anniversary Payment
th
required to be made to the Award Amount on such anniversary date pursuant to Sections 1 and 2 above. Upon payment to you of the Fifth Anniversary Payment, the outstanding Award Amount shall be reduced by the amount of such payment. If you have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through the seventh (7) anniversary thereof, then you will receive, promptly following such anniversary, a cash payment equal to the balance of the Award Amount outstanding on the seventh (7) anniversary of the Effective Date after giving effect to the increases required to be made to the Award Amount on such anniversary date pursuant to Sections 1 and 2 above.
th
th
4.     . If (i) your employment is terminated by the Company or one of its Affiliates for Cause (as defined below) at any time or (ii) you do not remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates, other than by reason of your death or Disability (as defined below) from the Effective Date through the second (2) anniversary of the Effective Date, you will automatically forfeit all of your rights and interest in the Award Amount.
Termination for Cause and Certain Other Employment Termination Events Prior to October 1, 2006
nd
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, as determined by the Committee, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an Affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo
contendere
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall have the meaning specified in Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the "").
Disability
IRC
5.    
Certain Employment Termination Events On or After October 1, 2006.
        a.    If your employment with the Company and any of its Affiliates terminates at any time during the period from and including the second (2) anniversary through and including the fifth (5) anniversary of the Effective Date for any reason other than as a result of a termination by the Company or one of its Affiliates for Cause or by reason of your death or Disability, then you will receive, promptly following the effective date of your termination of employment, a cash payment equal to the product obtained by multiplying the (i) Applicable Ratio (as defined in Section 5(c) below) by (ii) Award Amount outstanding on the effective date of your termination.
nd
th
        b.    If your employment with the Company and any of its Affiliates terminates at any time after the fifth (5) anniversary of the Effective Date for any reason other than as a result of a termination of your employment by the Company or one of its Affiliates for Cause or by reason of your death or Disability, then you will receive, promptly following the effective date of your termination of employment, a cash payment (the "") calculated by first adding the (i) Award Amount outstanding on the effective date of your termination of employment and (ii) Fifth Anniversary Payment that you received. The sum obtained pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence shall then be multiplied by the Applicable Ratio on such date. The Fifth Anniversary Payment shall then be subtracted from the product obtained pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence to obtain the amount of the Subject Payment. For purposes of
th
Subject Payment
illustration, the foregoing procedure for calculating the amount of the Subject Payment can be expressed formulaically as follows:
Subject Payment = [Applicable Ratio x (Award Amount + Fifth Anniversary Amount)]  Fifth Anniversary Amount.
        c.    For purposes of this Agreement, "" means two-sevenths (2/7) if the effective date of the termination of your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliate is October 1, 2006, which fraction shall thereafter increase by one eighty-fourth (1/84) on the first day of each subsequent calendar month (through and including October 1, 2011) that you remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates through the effective date of the termination of your employment.
Applicable Ratio
        d.    Your receipt of any amount payable to you under this Section 5 shall be subject to your execution and the effectiveness of a separation agreement to the Company's satisfaction (which agreement shall include, without limitation, non-disparagement, non-solicitation, confidentiality and further cooperation obligations/restrictions on you, as well as a general release by you of the Company and its Affiliates).
6.     . If at any time your employment with the Company or one of its Affiliates is as a result of your Disability or death then you or your estate, as the case may be, will receive, promptly following the date of such termination, the Award Amount then outstanding on such date.
Disability or Death
terminated
7.    
Change in Control Event.
        a.    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if at any time a Change in Control (as defined below) of the Company occurs and immediately prior to the Change in Control you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, you shall be entitled to the Award Amount outstanding on the date of the Change in Control (the "") in accordance with Section 7(b) below.
CIC Amount
        b.    If the actual Change in Control event:
               i    is a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC or payment of the CIC Amount promptly upon such event is otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the CIC Amount), then the CIC Amount outstanding on the date of the Change in Control shall be paid to you by the Company promptly following the Change in Control; or
               ii    is not a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC and payment of the CIC Amount promptly upon such event is not otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the CIC Amount), then the CIC Amount or portion thereof shall be paid to you by the Company (together with interest thereon pursuant to Section 7(c) below) on the earliest to occur of:
        c.     Upon any Change in Control, to the extent any amounts are due to be paid to you at a later date pursuant to Section 7(b)(ii) above, the Company shall promptly following the Change in Control set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to Section 7(b)(ii) above. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of the Change in Control and shall adjust annually based on the average of such rate for the ten business days prior to each anniversary of the Change in Control.
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (i) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined below) or (ii) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (i) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. Net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants.
Change in Control
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
8.    . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if the Company determines that you are a "key employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and that, as a result of such determination, any portion of the Award Amount would be subject to additional taxation, the Company will delay payment of such amount until the earliest permissible date on which the Award Amount may be paid without triggering such additional taxation.
Payment to Key Employee
9.     . In the event you shall voluntarily terminate your employment on or after the second (2) anniversary of the Effective Date such that you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates or your employment is terminated at any time by the Company or one of its Affiliates for Cause, you shall not become employed by, consult to, or have any interest, directly or indirectly, in any Competitive Entity from the effective date of such termination of your employment through the one-year anniversary of your most recent receipt or scheduled receipt of any portion of the Award Amount. If you shall voluntarily terminate your employment such that you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, and subsequently breach the restriction contained in the immediately preceding sentence, you shall within ten (10) business days thereof pay the Company, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, an amount equal to (i) the Award Amount paid to you plus (ii) interest at a rate equal to the lesser of (a) twelve percent (12%) per annum or (b) the maximum interest rate permitted by applicable law, compounded quarterly, calculated from the date the Award Amount or portion thereof was first paid until the date such payment to the Company is made.
Relationship with Competitive Entities
nd
        For purposes of this Agreement, a "" shall mean (1) any company that competes (including, without limitation, by means of direct broadcast satellite) with any of the Company's cable television, telephone or on-line data businesses in the New York City Metropolitan Area or that competes with any of the Company's direct broadcast satellite, programming, cinema, sports or entertainment businesses, nationally or regionally; or (2) any trade or professional association representing any of the companies covered by this Section 10, other than the National Cable Television Association and any state cable television association. Ownership of not more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding stock of any publicly-traded company shall not be a violation of this Section 9.
Competitive Entity
        By accepting this Agreement, you understand that the terms and conditions of this Section 9 may limit your ability to earn a livelihood in a business similar to the business of the Company, but nevertheless hereby agree that the restrictions and limitations hereof are reasonable in scope, area and duration, and that the consideration provided under the Plan and this Agreement is sufficient to justify the restrictions and limitations contained in this Section 9. Accordingly, in consideration thereof and in light of your education, skills and abilities, by participating in the Plan, you hereby agree that you will not assert, and it should not be considered, that such provisions are either unreasonable in scope, area or duration, or will prevent you from earning a living, or otherwise are void, voidable or unenforceable or should be voided or held unenforceable. You further understand and hereby agree that the restrictions and limitations contained in this Section 9 are ancillary to, and part of, the Plan and this Agreement, and are reasonably necessary to protect the good will and business interests of the Company.
        You hereby agree that a breach or threatened breach on your part of the restrictions and limitations contained in this Section 9 will cause such damage to the Company as will be irreparable and for that reason you further agree that the Company shall be entitled as a matter of right to an injunction or other equitable relief out of any court of competent jurisdiction, restraining any further violation of this Section 9 by you. The right to injunction or other equitable relief shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other remedies the Company may have, including, specifically, recovery of money damages and any other legal or equitable relief available. You hereby waive any requirement for security or the posting of any bond or other surety and proof of damages in connection with any temporary or permanent award of injunctive or other equitable relief.
10.     Except for a right which has accrued and vested to receive a payment on account of the Award, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect on October 2, 2011. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Section 9 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Termination.
11.     You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Award Amount, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions.
12.     . The Plan will at all times be unfunded and, except as set forth in Section 7(c) of this Agreement, no provision will at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company or any of its Affiliates for payment of any benefits under the Plan, including, without limitation, those covered by this Agreement. Your right or that of your estate to receive payments under this Agreement shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, including any rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 7(c). Neither you nor your estate shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company other than the assets held by the rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 7(c).
Unfunded Obligation
13.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Award Amount. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents. If, in connection with the Award Amount, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
14.     You hereby agree that if the Company shall owe you any amount (the "") under this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset against the Company-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any amounts that you may owe to the Company or its Affiliates of whatever nature. You hereby further agree that if you shall owe the Company any amount (the "") under Section 9 of this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset the Participant-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, against any amount you may be entitled to receive from the Company or its Affiliates under this Agreement or otherwise (including, without limitation, any wages, vacation pay, or other compensation or benefit under any benefit plan or other compensatory arrangement).
Right of Offset.
Company-Owed Amount
Participant-Owed Amount
15.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
Committee
16.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
17.     The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your economic rights under this Agreement without your consent. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment.
18.     The Award Amount is subject to the Plan.
Award Amount Subject to the Plan.
19.     This Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Award Amount and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict between this Agreement and the Plan with respect to the terms and conditions of the Award Amount, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall have superior authority.
Entire Agreement.
20.     The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
21.     This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
22.     You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
Jurisdiction and Venue.
23.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
24.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
25.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Award Amount shall be considered special incentive
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that the Award Amount shall be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
26.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
No Right to Continued Employment
27.     The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings.
28.     Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
Effective Date.
29.     Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures.
        By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
__________________________________________ Name:


