FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20050516170400.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
May 16, 2005
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
CSC HOLDINGS, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
1111 Stewart Avenue, Bethpage, New York  11714
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
Registrants' telephone number, including area code:
(516) 803-2300
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01   REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
 
On May 16, 2005, Consolidated Financial Statements as of March 31, 2005 of Rainbow National Services LLC ("RNS"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Registrants, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation of RNS for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 were furnished to RNS bondholders in accordance with the requirements of the Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to RNS' and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's $300,000,000 8-3/4% Senior Notes due 2012 and the Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to RNS' and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's $500,000,000 10-3/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014. Those RNS Consolidated Financial Statements are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the RNS Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2
 
 
ITEM 9.01  
FINANCIAL STATEMENT AND EXHIBITS
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
2
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
NOTE 1.
          BUSINESS
 
In July 2004, Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") formed Rainbow National Services LLC (the "Company").  The Company is a holding company with no independent operations.  Its subsidiaries include entities that principally own certain nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment services operated as integral parts of Cablevision, including AMC, WE: Women's Entertainment ("WE") and The Independent Film Channel ("IFC").  The Company's consolidated financial statements have been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Cablevision and reflect certain assumptions and allocations.  The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company could differ from those that might have resulted had the Company been operated autonomously or as an entity independent of Cablevision.
 
The common equity membership interests of American Movie Classics Company LLC ("AMC LLC") and its wholly owned subsidiaries and The Independent Film Channel LLC and its wholly owned subsidiaries were contributed to the Company.  For accounting purposes, this transaction was treated as a reorganization of entities under common control in a manner similar to a pooling of interests whereby the assets and liabilities were transferred at historical cost.
 
Cablevision had previously announced its intention to distribute (hereinafter referred to as the "Distribution") the businesses and assets included in the Company as well as other businesses and assets of Cablevision to Rainbow Media Enterprises, Inc. ("RME").  RME is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of CSC Holdings, Inc., itself a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision. In connection with the anticipated Distribution, Cablevision had contributed certain businesses and assets to RME through a series of intercorporate transactions.  RME announced it would own these businesses and assets and become a public company on the date of the Distribution.  As part of the series of intercorporate transactions, RME had contributed the common equity membership interests owned by the entities included in these consolidated financial statements to the Company.
 
In December 2004, Cablevision announced that the Board of Directors had decided to suspend pursuing the Distribution.
 
NOTE 2.
          BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X for interim financial information.  Accordingly, these statements do not include all the information and notes required for complete financial statements.
 
The financial statements as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 presented herein are unaudited; however, in the opinion of management, such statements include all adjustments, consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair
presentation
of the results for the periods presented.  All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
The results of operations for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results that might be expected for future interim periods or for the full year ending December 31, 2005.
 
The interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
NOTE 3.
          RECLASSIFICATIONS
 
The Company reclassified $32,347 relating to intercompany advances from cash flows provided by operating activities to cash flows used in investing activities in the 2004 statement of cash flows.  This reclassification is consistent with the same reclassification made in the audited consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
NOTE 4.
          CASH FLOWS
 
For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, the Company considers short-term investments with a maturity at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
 
Other supplemental data for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 was as follows:
 
 
During the three months ended March 31, 2005, $155,567 of amounts due from Rainbow Media Holdings LLC was converted to equity and recorded as a deemed capital distribution.
 
During the three months ended March 31, 2004, the Company recorded a non-cash equity distribution of approximately $1,400 to Rainbow Media Holdings LLC to reflect the resolution of certain film rights agreements associated with Rainbow Media Holdings LLC's sale of an affiliate in 2002.
 
NOTE 5.
          RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued a revision of FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, Statement No. 123R.  Statement No. 123R supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance and it establishes standards for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services.  Statement No. 123R also requires that the benefits associated with the tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after the effective date.  The effective date of Statement No. 123R is the first reporting period beginning after June 15, 2005, which is third quarter 2005 for calendar year companies, although early adoption is allowed.  However, in April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") announced that the effective date of Statement No. 123R will be suspended until January 1, 2006, for calendar year companies.  Cablevision has not yet determined the method of adoption or the effect that the adoption will have on its financial position or results of operations.
 
In March 2005, the SEC staff issued guidance on Statement No. 123R.  Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ("SAB No. 107") was issued to assist preparers by simplifying some of the implementation challenges of Statement No. 123R while enhancing the information that investors receive.  SAB No. 107 creates a framework that is premised on the fact that (a) considerable judgment will be required by preparers to successfully implement Statement No. 123R, specifically when valuing employee stock options; and (b) reasonable individuals, acting in good faith, may conclude differently on the fair value of employee stock options. Key topics covered by SAB No. 107 include (a) valuation models (SAB No. 107 reinforces the flexibility allowed by Statement No. 123R to choose an option-pricing model that meets the standard's fair value measurement objective), (b) expected volatility (the SAB provides guidance on when it would be appropriate to rely exclusively on either historical or implied volatility in estimating expected volatility) and (c) expected term (the new guidance includes examples and some simplified approaches to determining the expected term under certain circumstances).  The Company will apply the principles of SAB No. 107 in conjunction with its adoption of Statement No. 123R.
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions.  Statement 153 addresses the principle that exchanges of nonmonetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged.  Statement 153 eliminates the narrow exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a broader exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance.  Previously, Opinion 29 required that the accounting for an exchange of a productive asset for a similar
productive
asset or an equivalent interest in the same or similar productive asset should be based on the recorded amount of the asset relinquished.  The Statement is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005.  The provisions of Statement 153 will be adopted for all nonmonetary exchanges initiated after July 1, 2005 and therefore had no impact to the consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2005.
 
NOTE 6.
          INCOME TAXES
 
The income tax provision is determined on a stand-alone basis as if the Company filed separate consolidated income tax returns for the periods presented herein.
 
The income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 of $7,182 and $14,801, respectively, differs from the income tax expense derived from applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income due principally to the impact of state taxes and non deductible expenses.
 
Since there was no tax sharing agreement in place between the Company and Cablevision, current tax liabilities that the Company did not pay directly have been reflected as deemed contributions to the Company's equity.  Such contributions amounted to $8,988 and $15,839 for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
NOTE 7.
          INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
The following table summarizes information relating to the Company's acquired intangible assets at March 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004:
 
There were no changes in the carrying amount of excess costs over the fair value of net assets acquired for the three months ended March 31, 2005.
 
NOTE 8.
          SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
The Company classifies its business interests into two reportable segments: AMC Networks (which comprises AMC and WE) and IFC.  These reportable segments are strategic business units that are managed separately.  The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment adjusted operating cash flow (defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization and stock plan income or expense).  Information as to the operations of the Company's business segments is set forth below.
 
 
 
Beginning in the first quarter of 2005, the Company has changed the presentation of intercompany balances in its segment total assets disclosures.  The balance between the segment and any Cablevision subsidiary outside of the Company is evaluated individually to determine if there is a net receivable or net payable.  Net receivables are included in the segments' total assets and net payables are excluded from the segments' total assets.  This change had no effect on
consolidated
total assets at December 31, 2004 since such amounts previously were included in Intersegment eliminations.
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment amounts to the Company's consolidated balances is as follows:
 
 
Substantially all revenues and assets of the Company's reportable segments are attributed to or located in the United States.
 
Concentrations and Credit Risk
 
Financial instruments that may potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables.  Cash is invested in bank time deposits offered by financial institutions that have received the highest rating awarded by S&P and Moody's.  The Company had three customers that accounted for approximately 41% and 38% of the Company's consolidated net trade receivable balances at March 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, which exposes the Company to a concentration of credit risk.  The Company had three customers that accounted for approximately 41% of the Company's consolidated net revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
NOTE 9.
          DEBT
 
In August 2004, American Movie Classics Company LLC issued 3.5 million shares of redeemable preferred membership interests with an aggregate liquidation preference of $350,000 to Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, which was recorded as a deemed capital distribution.  In March 2005, the redeemable preferred membership interests were recontributed to a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and converted back to common membership interests in AMC LLC.  The impact of the elimination was to reduce debt by $350,000 and decrease member's deficiency by the same amount in 2005.
 
NOTE 10.
       LEGAL MATTERS
 
The Company is party to various lawsuits, some involving substantial amounts.  Although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, management does not believe that the resolution of these lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations or liquidity of the Company.
 
Time Warner Litigation
 
On November 14, 2003, American Movie Classics Company filed an action against Time Warner Entertainment, L.P. in New York State Supreme Court for declaratory relief and damages caused by Time Warner's anticipatory repudiation of its cable television affiliation agreement with American Movie Classics Company.  American Movie Classics Company filed that action as a result of Time Warner's notice purporting to terminate the contract based upon their allegation that American Movie Classics Company had changed its programming.  The Company believes the notice was improper.  American Movie Classics Company is seeking a declaratory judgment that it is entitled to full performance of the agreement, and, at its option, is entitled to rescind the agreement and recover damages.  Time Warner filed an answer and counterclaims in December 2003 that, among other things, seeks a declaratory judgment as to its right to terminate the affiliation agreement, an injunction requiring American Movie Classics Company to deliver a classic films channel and damages for an alleged breach of contract.  Both parties have filed motions for summary judgment, which were argued on April 15, 2005 and are pending.  The Company believes that Time Warner's counterclaims are without merit and is contesting them vigorously.   If the Company does not prevail in the litigation, the Company's business will be materially and adversely affected.
 
Broadcast Music, Inc. and the American Society of Composers Matter
 
Broadcast Music, Inc. ("BMI") and the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers ("ASCAP"), organizations which license the performance of musical compositions of respective members, allege that certain of the Company's subsidiaries require a license to exhibit musical compositions in their respective catalogs. BMI and ASCAP have each agreed to interim fees based on revenues covering certain periods for certain subsidiaries. These matters have been submitted to a Federal Rate Court, and are subject to retroactive adjustment either at such time as a final decision is made by the Court or a final agreement is reached by the parties.
 
Accounting Related Investigations
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York continue to conduct investigations into matters related to the improper expense recognition previously reported by Cablevision. In July 2004, in connection with Cablevision's response to the comments of the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the Securities and Exchange Commission on Cablevision's filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
Cablevision provided information with respect to certain of its previous restatement adjustments relating to the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements. The staff of the Division of Enforcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission has contacted Cablevision to ask for additional information on these launch support, marketing and other payments.
 
NOTE 11.
       DISCLOSURES ABOUT THE FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
The fair value of the Company's debt instruments are summarized as follows:
 
 
Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market information and information about the financial instrument. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
This Quarterly Report contains statements that constitute forward looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including availability under credit facilities, levels of capital expenditures, sources of funds and funding requirements, among others.  Investors are cautioned that such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties and that actual results or developments may differ materially from the forward looking statements as a result of various factors.  Factors that may cause such differences to occur include but are not limited to:
 
 - 
                 
the
level of our revenues and expenses;
 
 - 
                 
the
cost of developing, obtaining and licensing our programming;
 
 - 
                 
our
ability to maintain and renew affiliation agreements for our businesses;
 
 - 
                 
demand
for advertising time and space;
 
 - 
                 
developments
in the government investigations relating to improper expense recognition;
 
 - 
                 
the
outcome of litigation and other proceedings, including the matters described in the accompanying financial statements;
 
 - 
                 
general
economic and industry conditions in the areas in which we operate;
 
 - 
                 
future
acquisitions and dispositions of assets;
 
 - 
                 
market
demand for new programming services;
 
 - 
                 
financial
community and rating agency perceptions of our business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which we operate;
 
 - 
                 
the
regulatory environment in which we operate;
 
 - 
                 
other
risks and uncertainties inherent in the programming and entertainment businesses; and the factors described herein.
 
We disclaim any obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements contained herein, except as otherwise required by applicable federal securities laws.
 
Overview
 
We provide television programming to cable television and direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators throughout the United States.  We own three nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment programming networks:  AMC; WE: Women's Entertainment, or WE; and The Independent Film Channel, or IFC.
Our future performance depends on
general economic conditions including capital market conditions, the effectiveness of direct competition, our ability to manage our businesses effectively, and our relative strength and leverage in the marketplace, both with suppliers and customers.
 
We earn revenues in two principal ways.  First, we distribute programming to operators of cable television systems and DBS operators under multi-year contracts called affiliation agreements. The specific affiliate fees we earn vary from operator to operator and also vary among our networks but are generally based upon the number of that affiliate's subscribers who receive our programming, referred to as "viewing subscribers." The second principal source of revenues is from advertising.  Under our agreements with cable and satellite operators, we have the right to sell a specific amount of advertising time on our programs.  Our advertising revenues are more variable than affiliate fees.  This is because most of our advertising is sold on a short-term basis, not under long-term contracts.  Also, our advertising revenues vary based upon the popularity of our programming as measured by rating services.
 
We seek to grow our revenues by increasing the number of distributors that carry our services and the number of subscribers to cable systems and satellite services that receive our programming.  We refer to this as our "penetration."  AMC, which is widely distributed, has less ability to increase its penetration than WE and IFC.  WE and IFC, although carried on many of the larger distributors, have superior growth opportunities resulting from their current carriage levels with cable television operators.  IFC is currently carried primarily on digital tiers while WE is carried on either analog expanded basic or digital tiers.  Therefore, WE and IFC penetration rates may increase if operators are successful in converting their analog subscribers to digital tiers of service.  Our revenues may also increase over time through contractual rate increases stipulated in certain of our affiliation agreements.  We may be subject to requests by distributors to make upfront payments in exchange for these additional subscribers or to waive or accept lower subscriber fees if certain numbers of additional subscribers are provided. We also may help fund the distributors' efforts to market our channels or we may permit distributors to offer limited promotional periods without payment of subscriber fees. As we continue our efforts to add subscribers, our subscriber revenue may be negatively affected by subscriber acquisition fee expenses, discounted subscriber fees and other payments; however, we believe that these transactions generate a positive return on investment over the contract period.  We may seek to increase our advertising revenues through intensified marketing and by airing an increased number of minutes of national advertising, but ultimately, the level of our advertising revenues is directly related to the penetration of our services and the popularity (including within desirable demographic groups) of our services.
 
Our principal goals are to increase our affiliation and advertising revenues through increasing penetration of our services.  To do this we must continue to contract for and produce high-quality programming that is desirable to our viewing audience.  Our greatest challenge arises from the increasing concentration of subscribers in the hands of a few cable television and DBS operators.  This increased concentration enhances the power of those distributors and could adversely affect our ability to increase the penetration of our services or even result in decreased penetration.  In addition, this concentration gives those distributors greater leverage in negotiating the pricing and other terms of affiliation agreements.  Moreover, as a result of this concentration the impact from a loss of any one of our major affiliate relationships would have a significant adverse impact on our business.
The Company classifies its business interests into two reportable segments:  AMC Networks (which comprises AMC and WE) and IFC.
 
Recent Transactions
 
The following transactions occurred during the periods covered by this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
 
In March 2005, $155.6 million of amounts due from Rainbow Media Holdings LLC was converted to equity and recorded as a capital distribution.
 
In August 2004, American Movie Classics Company LLC ("AMC LLC") issued 3.5 million shares of redeemable preferred membership interests with an aggregate liquidation preference of $350.0 million to Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, which was recorded as a deemed capital distribution.  In March 2005, the redeemable preferred membership interests were recontributed to a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and converted back to common membership interests in AMC LLC.  The impact of the elimination was to reduce debt by $350.0 million and decrease member's deficiency by the same amount in 2005.
 
Cautionary Note Concerning Historical Financial Statements
 
Investors should be aware that we are highly leveraged as a result of the financing transactions which took place in August 2004.  As a result, we will incur significant interest charges. 
These interest charges will be significantly in excess of the interest expense reflected in our financial statements for periods prior to August 2004.  In addition, our financial information does not necessarily reflect what our results of operations and financial position would have been if we had operated as a separate entity during the periods presented.
Results of Operations
 
The following table sets forth on a historical basis certain items related to operations as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated.
 
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA
 
Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2005 Versus the Three Months Ended March 31, 2004
 
Revenues, net
for the three months ended March 31, 2005 increased $8.8 million (7%) as compared to revenues for the same period in the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
 
 
The increase in net revenue from advertising for the three months ended March 31, 2005 compared to the same period in the prior year is driven by increases at AMC Networks and IFC of $7.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively.  The increase in net revenue from the programming networks subscriber increases for the three months ended March 31, 2005 compared to the same period in the prior year is driven by increases at AMC Networks and IFC of $0.7 million and $0.1 million, respectively.
 
Offsetting the potentially negative effects on negotiated rates for our programming services that may result from the consolidation of cable television operators and the limit on increases in the subscriber base for our substantially fully penetrated AMC programming service, the Company expects increased revenues from increased distribution of the WE and IFC programming services, especially on the digital tiers of cable programming services on cable television systems as digital capacity continues to become available; and increased advertising revenues as cable networks, including niche programming networks, attract a greater share of advertising spending.  Changes in the viewership ratings of our AMC and WE programming services will also significantly affect future advertising revenues.
 
Technical and operating expenses
include primarily costs to license programming including feature films, and programming and production costs.
 
Technical and operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2005 increased $1.8 million (5%) compared to the same period in 2004.  Excluding the impact of impairment losses amounting to $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2004, technical and operating expenses increased $2.1 million (6%) compared to 2004. The increase in technical and operating expense, excluding the impact of impairment losses, is driven by an increase at AMC Networks and IFC of $1.8 million and $0.3 million, respectively.
 
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses remained consistent with for the three months ended March 31, 2005 compared to the same period in 2004.
 
We believe that, in general, the level of our historical technical and operating expenses is largely indicative of future expense levels; however, as additional competition for product develops from new programming services, due to the availability of additional digital tier distribution mentioned above, costs for film and other programming content may increase.
Selling, general and administrative expenses
include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs and costs of facilities.  Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $2.8 million (8%) for the three months ended March 31, 2005 as compared to 2004.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
 
 
The decrease in costs associated with the investigation into improper expense recognition is driven by a decrease of $3.7 million and $0.3 million at AMC Networks and IFC, respectively, for three months ended March 31, 2005 compared to the same period in the prior year.  The increase in other general and administrative costs is primarily driven by an increase at AMC Networks and IFC of $4.0 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005 compared to the same period in 2004.  The decrease in stock plan expenses of $0.6 million is driven by an increase at AMC Networks of $0.5 million, offset by a decrease at IFC of $1.1 million.  The increase in sales and marketing costs is attributable to an increase at AMC Networks and IFC of $2.2 million and $1.0 million, respectively.
 
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses remained consistent with for the three months ended March 31, 2005 compared to the same period in 2004.
 
Depreciation and amortization
decreased $4.2 million (22%) for the three months ended March 31, 2005 compared to the same period in 2004.  A decrease of approximately $3.6 million relates to the completed amortization in July 2004 of an intangible asset that AMC Networks acquired in 1994 and a decrease of approximately $0.6 million in depreciation expense relating to fixed assets.
 
Net interest expense
increased $28.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005 compared to the same period in the prior year.  The increase was primarily attributable to the interest expense on the notes and bank debt described herein.
 
Income tax expense
of $7.2 million and $14.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005, and 2004, respectively, resulted primarily from the pretax income multiplied by the statutory rate for federal and state taxes.
 
CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
 
Operating Activities
 
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $6.1 million for the months ended March 31, 2005 compared to $57.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2004.  The 2005 cash provided by operating activities resulted from a net decrease in cash resulting from changes in assets and liabilities of $45.8 million offset by a net increase in cash resulting from $51.9 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items.
The 2004 net cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from $67.9 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items partially offset by a net decrease in cash resulting from changes in assets and liabilities of $10.7 million.
 
Investing Activities
 
Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2005 was less than $0.1 million compared to $32.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2004.  The 2005 investing activities consisted of capital expenditures.
 
Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2004 was $32.4 million and consisted primarily of cash advances to an affiliate of $32.3 million and capital expenditures.
 
Financing Activities
 
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005 compared to $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2004.  In 2005 and 2004, the Company's financing activities consisted of principal payments on capital leases.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
The operations of the businesses that are included in our consolidated financial statements collectively have historically generated net cash flow from operations and have limited capital expenditures, and accordingly, have limited borrowing requirements.
 
The following table summarizes our outstanding debt and present value of capital leases as well as interest expense and capital expenditures as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2005:
 
 
We generated positive cash from operations in 2004 and the first quarter of 2005.  Our cash, plus proceeds from borrowings available to the Company, may provide funding to other Rainbow developing programming services, which are not subsidiaries of the Company, including the VOOM 21 high definition channels, subject to the applicable covenants and limitations contained in the Company's financing agreements.  We currently expect that the net funding and investment requirements of these other Rainbow programming entities will be funded by cash on hand at Rainbow Media Enterprises, Inc. ("RME"), our indirect parent, and distributions from the Company.  We believe that the Company has sufficient liquidity and covenant availability to provide such funding for the next twelve months.
 
In August 2004, we entered into debt financing arrangements totaling approximately $1,750.0 million consisting of a $950.0 million senior secured credit facility comprised of a $600.0 million term loan and a $350.0 million undrawn revolving credit facility, and senior and senior subordinated notes totaling approximately $800.0 million.  Substantially all of the net proceeds of the new financings, approximately $1,366.3 million, were distributed to RME.
 
Our credit facility is a $950 million senior secured credit facility, comprised of a $600 million term loan and a $350 million undrawn revolving credit facility secured by the assets and common equity interests of AMC, WE and IFC and guaranteed by AMC, WE and IFC and Rainbow Programming Holdings, LLC, our direct parent.  The term loan requires quarterly amortization of 0.25% of the original outstanding balance beginning June 30, 2005 through March 31, 2011 and 23.50% of the original outstanding balance for each quarter ending June 30, 2011 through March 31, 2012, its maturity.  Outstanding borrowings under the facility were $600 million as of May 11, 2005, resulting in undrawn revolver commitments of $350 million.
 
Financial covenants include (i) a maximum total leverage ratio of 6.75 times cash flow (as defined based on the combined cash flows of AMC, WE and IFC) through December 31, 2006 with reductions thereafter, (ii) a maximum senior leverage of 5.0 times cash flow, reducing to 4.75 times on October 1, 2005 with further reductions thereafter, and (iii) minimum ratios for cash flow to interest expense and cash flow to debt service.  These covenants and restrictions on the permitted use of borrowed funds may limit our ability to utilize all of the undrawn funds available.  Additional covenants include limitations on liens, the issuance of additional indebtedness and distributions and investments.  Permitted distributions include (i) up to $150 million annually with a cumulative limit of $600 million to fund Rainbow DBS Holdings, Inc., the operations of which were discontinued as of April 30, 2005, and (ii) up to $50 million annually, with a cumulative limit of $200 million, for other general purposes, and (iii) subject to having a maximum ratio of total debt to cash flow of 5.0 times, distributions of up to $300 million from the proceeds of permitted future debt offerings. The Company was in compliance with all of its financial covenants as of March 31, 2005.
The Company's notes outstanding consist of $300 million face amount of 8-3/4% senior notes due September 1, 2012, and $500 million face amount of 10-3/8% senior subordinated notes due September 1, 2014.  These issuances are guaranteed by substantially all of the Company's subsidiaries.  Principal covenants include a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness based upon a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow (as defined in the indentures) of 7:1, reducing to 6:1 after January 1, 2009, limitations on dividends and distributions and limitations on the ability to incur liens (as per the terms of the senior notes indenture).
 
The Company's future access to the debt markets and the cost of any future debt issuances are also influenced by its credit ratings, which are provided by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's.  Any future downgrade to the Company's credit ratings by either rating agency could increase the interest rate on future debt issuances and could adversely impact the Company's ability to raise additional funds.
 
On the date of issuance of the senior and senior subordinated notes, American Movie Classics Company LLC ("AMC LLC") issued 3.5 million shares of redeemable preferred membership interests with an aggregate liquidation preference of $350.0 million to Rainbow Media Holdings
LLC, which was recorded as a capital distribution.
  In March 2005, the redeemable preferred membership interests were recontributed to a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and converted back to common membership interests in AMC LLC.  The impact of the elimination was to reduce debt by $350.0 million and decrease member's deficiency by the same amount in 2005. 
No dividends were recorded prior to the recontribution and conversion.
 
At December 31, 2004, long-term assets included $155.6 million of amounts due from Rainbow Media Holdings LLC.  In March 2005, this amount was converted to equity and recorded as a capital distribution.  The conversion was reflected as a restricted payment pursuant to the bond indenture.
 
Commitments
 
Commitments not reflected on the Company's consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2005 decreased approximately $0.2 million to approximately $224.5 million as compared to approximately $224.7 million outstanding at December 31, 2004.  This decrease resulted primarily from the payment of transmission obligations of approximately $2.3 million, offset by the addition of future production obligations of approximately $2.1 million.
 
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued a revision of FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, Statement No. 123R.  Statement No. 123R supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance and it establishes standards for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services.  Statement No. 123R also requires that the benefits associated with the tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after the effective date.  The effective date of Statement No. 123R is the first reporting period beginning after June 15, 2005, which is third quarter 2005 for calendar year companies, although early adoption is allowed.  However, in April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") announced that the effective date of Statement No. 123R will be suspended until January 1, 2006, for calendar year companies.  Cablevision has not yet determined the method of adoption or the effect that the adoption will have on its financial position or results of operations.
 
In March 2005, the SEC staff issued guidance on Statement No. 123R.  Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ("SAB No. 107") was issued to assist preparers by simplifying some of the implementation challenges of Statement No. 123R while enhancing the information that investors receive. SAB No. 107 creates a framework that is premised on the fact that (a) considerable judgment will be required by preparers to successfully implement Statement No. 123R, specifically when valuing employee stock options; and (b) reasonable individuals, acting in good faith, may conclude differently on the fair value of employee stock options. Key topics covered by SAB No. 107 include (a) valuation models (SAB No. 107 reinforces the flexibility allowed by Statement No. 123R to choose an option-pricing model that meets the standard's fair value measurement objective), (b) expected volatility (the SAB provides guidance on when it would be appropriate to rely exclusively on either historical or implied volatility in estimating expected volatility) and (c) expected term (the new guidance includes examples and
some
simplified approaches to determining the expected term under certain circumstances).  The Company will apply the principles of SAB No. 107 in conjunction with its adoption of Statement No. 123R.
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions.  Statement 153 addresses the principle that exchanges of nonmonetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged.  Statement 153 eliminates the narrow exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a broader exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance.  Previously, Opinion 29 required that the accounting for an exchange of a productive asset for a similar productive asset or an equivalent interest in the same or similar productive asset should be based on the recorded amount of the asset relinquished.  The Statement is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005.  The provisions of Statement 153 will be adopted for all nonmonetary exchanges initiated after July 1, 2005 and therefore had no impact to the consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2005.


