FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20050210200557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, Inc. (collectively, the "Company") today announced that it has signed a letter of intent under which VOOM HD, LLC, a new private company formed by certain holders of Cablevision Class B Common Stock, including Charles F. Dolan and Tom Dolan, will acquire from the Company the business, assets and liabilities of the Company's Rainbow DBS satellite business not included in the Company's definitive agreement with EchoStar announced January 20, 2005.
In consideration, VOOM HD will assume and indemnify the Company against substantially all of the liabilities of the Rainbow DBS satellite business existing at the closing or thereafter incurred. For the Company, the transaction will allow it to avoid various shutdown costs and other liabilities of the VOOM service which it would have incurred had it proceeded with its original plan to shut down the service. The Company will incur certain severance costs in connection with the transaction. VOOM HD is in the process of securing financing to support the ongoing operations of the business and anticipates having that financing in place by the close of the transaction. The parties' obligations under the letter of intent are subject to the execution of a definitive agreement by February 28, 2005.
VOOM HD will acquire the Company's interest in the VOOM 21 high-definition channels that are currently carried exclusively by Rainbow DBS, various Ka-Band, Ku-band and MVDDS licenses, the SES Americom lease on the Rainbow 2 satellite, existing customer agreements and other VOOM-related assets.
A committee of the Company's Board of Directors consisting of independent directors negotiated the letter of intent for the Company. The transaction is contingent on the Board's approval of the definitive agreement.
There can be no assurance that a definitive agreement will be entered into or that the transaction will be consummated.
 
 
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 10, 2005
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 10, 2005
 
 
 


