FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20061027165310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
        On October 27, 2006, the Board of Directors of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "Company") appointed Grover C. Brown and Zachary W. Carter as directors of the Company. Messrs. Brown and Carter will serve as directors elected by holders of Class A Common Stock under the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Messrs. Brown and Carter were each also appointed as directors of the Company's subsidiary CSC Holdings, Inc.
        Also on October 27, 2006, the Board of Directors appointed Messrs. Brown and Carter to a newly formed special litigation committee of the Board. The special litigation committee will review and analyze the facts and circumstances surrounding claims that have been raised in certain litigations in which the Company has been named as a nominal defendant, and which purport to have been brought derivatively on behalf of the Company. The special litigation committee has full and sole authority to consider and determine whether or not prosecution of such claims is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, and what actions the Company should take with respect to the cases.
        Mr. Brown is currently Special Counsel with the law firm of Gordon, Fournaris & Mammarella, P.A., in Wilmington, Delaware. From 1985 to 2000, Mr. Brown was Partner at the law firm of Morris, James, Hitchens & Williams. Mr. Brown served as Chancellor and Vice Chancellor of the Delaware Court of Chancery from 1973 until 1985 and was a Family Court Judge for the State of Delaware prior to that time. While a member of the Court of Chancery, Mr. Brown sat as a member of the Delaware Supreme Court on more than 100 appeals by special designation of the Chief Justice of the Delaware Supreme Court.
        Zachary W. Carter serves currently as partner at the law firm Dorsey & Whitney LLP, in New York, New York. Mr. Carter joined Dorsey & Whitney in 1999 after a career in public service. This included serving as: United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York from 1993 to 1999; United States Magistrate Judge for the Eastern District of New York from 1991 to 1993; Judge of the Criminal Court of the City of New York from 1987 to 1991; and Executive Assistant District Attorney, Kings County District Attorney's Office, Brooklyn, New York from 1982 to 1987.
 
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 27, 2006
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 27, 2006
 
 


