FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20060512164015.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
May 12, 2006
CABLEVISION
SYSTEMS CORPORATION
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
CSC HOLDINGS, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
1111 Stewart Avenue, Bethpage, New York 11714
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
Registrants' telephone number, including area code:
(516) 803-2300
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 7.01             REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
On May 12, 2006, Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements of Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries ("RNS"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, Inc., as of March 31, 2006 and for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations were furnished to RNS bondholders in accordance with the requirements of the Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to RNS' and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's $300,000,000 8-3/4% Senior Notes due 2012 and the Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to RNS' and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's $500,000,000 10-3/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014. The RNS Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the RNS Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and both items are being furnished in this Form 8-K filing.
ITEM 9.01
                                      
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Exhibits
(c)
         
 
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 12, 2006
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 12, 2006
3

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
2
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Three Months Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005
(Dollars in thousands)
(unaudited)
 
 consolidated financial statements.
3
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF MEMBER'S DEFICIENCY Three Months Ended March 31, 2006 (Dollars in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
4
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Three Months Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 (Dollars in thousands) (unaudited)
 
 
5
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Dollars in thousands) (unaudited)
NOTE 1.                BUSINESS
In July 2004, Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") formed Rainbow National Services LLC (the "Company"). Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC, a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of Cablevision, owns 100% of the membership interests in the Company. The Company is a holding company with no independent operations. Its subsidiaries include entities that principally own nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment services operated as integral parts of Cablevision, including AMC, WE: Women's Entertainment ("WE") and The Independent Film Channel ("IFC"). The Company's consolidated financial statements have been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Cablevision and reflect certain assumptions and allocations. The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company could differ from those that might have resulted had the Company been operated autonomously or as an entity independent of Cablevision.
NOTE 2.                BASIS OF PRESENTATION
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X for interim financial information as required by the Company's indentures even though the Company is not a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, these financial statements do not include all the information and notes required for complete financial statements.
The financial statements as of March 31, 2006 and for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 presented herein are unaudited; however, in the opinion of management, such statements include all adjustments, consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the periods presented. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
The results of operations for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results that might be expected for future interim periods or for the full year ending December 31, 2006.
The interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2005.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Advertising revenue is recognized when commercials are aired in accordance with the broadcast year which ends on the last Sunday on or prior to the last day of each quarter. The three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 each include 13 weeks and the 2005 year included 52 weeks. In 2006, the broadcast year will include 53 weeks and the fourth quarter of 2006 will include 14 weeks.
6
Comprehensive income for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 equals net income for the same periods.
NOTE 3.                CASH FLOWS
For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, the Company considers short-term investments with a maturity at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
During the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company's non-cash investing and financing activities and other supplemental data were as follows:
 
In March 2005, $155,567 of amounts due from Rainbow Media Holdings LLC were converted to equity and recorded as a deemed capital distribution.
In August 2004, American Movie Classics Company LLC ("AMC LLC") issued 3.5 million shares of redeemable preferred membership interests with an aggregate liquidation preference of $350,000 to Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, which was recorded as a deemed capital distribution. In March 2005, the redeemable preferred membership interests were recontributed to a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and converted back to common membership interests in AMC LLC. The impact of the contribution was to reduce debt by $350,000 and decrease member's deficiency by the same amount in 2005.
NOTE 4.                RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
Cablevision adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, on January 1, 2006 using the modified prospective method.  The modified prospective method requires that share-based compensation expense be recorded for the unvested portion of restricted share awards and stock option awards outstanding at December 31, 2005 over the remaining service periods related to such awards, after adjustment for estimated forfeitures, and the consolidated financial statements for the prior periods are not restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of Statement No. 123R. Cablevision will continue using the Black-Scholes valuation model in determining the fair value of share-based payments. In accordance with the pro forma disclosure requirements of Statement No. 123,
7
Cablevision recognized the majority of the share-based compensation costs using the accelerated attribution method. Subsequent to January 1, 2006, Cablevision will continue to recognize the compensation expense for previously granted share-based awards under the accelerated attribution method and will recognize the compensation expense for new share-based awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. In connection with Cablevision's adoption of Statement No. 123R, the Company recorded an expense of $121 as a cumulative change in accounting principle, net of taxes of $72, in the Company's consolidated statement of income for the three months ended March 31, 2006. Share-based compensation allocated to the Company by Cablevision for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 was $2,608 and $65, respectively, and has been recorded as a component of selling, general and administrative expense and as a capital contribution.
In June 2005, the FASB issued Statement No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections - a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3. The Statement applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle, and changes the requirements for accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. Statement No. 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods' financial statements of a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is impracticable. APB Opinion No. 20 previously required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be recognized by including in net income of the period of the change the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle. Statement No. 154 requires that a change in method of calculating depreciation, amortization, or depletion for long-lived, non financial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate that is effected by a change in accounting principle. APB Opinion No. 20 previously required that such a change be reported as a change in accounting principle. Statement No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005.
NOTE 5.                INCOME TAXES
The Company is a single-member limited liability company, wholly-owned by Rainbow Media Enterprises, Inc. ("RME"), a taxable corporation. RME is a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Cablevision. As such, the Company is treated as a division of RME and is included in the consolidated income tax return of Cablevision for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, based upon the provisions of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the income tax provision is determined on a stand-alone basis as if the Company filed separate consolidated income tax returns for the periods presented herein.
The income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 of $4,191 and $7,182, respectively, differs from the income tax expense derived from applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income due principally to the impact of state taxes and non-deductible expenses.
Since there is no tax sharing agreement in place between the Company and Cablevision, current tax liabilities that the Company did not pay directly have been reflected as deemed contributions to the Company's capital. Such contributions amounted to $6,716 and $8,988 for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
8
NOTE 6.                INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The following table summarizes information relating to the Company's acquired intangible assets at March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005:
 
 
 
NOTE 7.                LEASES
The Company leases equipment (primarily satellite equipment) under capital leases, which expire in 2006 and 2019. At March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the gross amount of equipment and related accumulated depreciation recorded under these leases were as follows:
 
 
Future minimum capital lease payments as of March 31, 2006 are as follows:
 
 
9
 
 
NOTE 8.                SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company classifies its business interests into two reportable segments: AMC Networks (which includes AMC and WE) and IFC. These reportable segments are strategic business units that are managed separately. The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment adjusted operating cash flow (defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization, stock plan income or expense and restructuring charges or credits), a non-GAAP measure. The Company has presented the components that reconcile adjusted operating cash flow to operating income, an accepted GAAP measure. Information as to the operations of the Company's business segments is set forth below.
 
 
Reconciliation (by Segment and in Total) of Adjusted Operating Cash Flow to Operating Income
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment amounts to the Company's consolidated balances is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
Substantially all revenues and assets of the Company's reportable segments are attributed to or located in the United States.
Concentrations of Credit Risk
Financial instruments that may potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. Cash is invested in bank time deposits offered by financial institutions that have received the highest rating awarded by Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service. The Company had three customers that in the aggregate accounted for approximately 37% and 35% of the Company's consolidated net trade receivable balances at March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively, which exposes the Company to a concentration of credit risk. These customers accounted for approximately 39% and 41% of the Company's net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
NOTE 9.                LEGAL MATTERS
The Company is subject to various claims in the ordinary course of business. Although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty and the impact of the final resolution of these matters on the Company's results of operations in a particular subsequent reporting period is not known, management does not believe that the resolution of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the financial position or liquidity of the Company.
Broadcast Music, Inc. Matter
Broadcast Music, Inc. ("BMI"), an organization that licenses the performance of musical compositions of respective members, has alleged that certain of the Company's subsidiaries require a license to exhibit musical compositions in their respective catalogs. BMI agreed to interim fees based on revenues covering certain periods for certain subsidiaries. These matters were submitted to a Federal Rate Court. The interim fees paid to BMI remain subject to retroactive adjustment until such time as either a final decision is made by the Court or an agreement is reached by the parties.
Accounting Related Investigations
The improper expense recognition matter previously reported by Cablevision has been the subject of investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York. The Securities and Exchange Commission is continuing to investigate the improper expense recognition matter and Cablevision's timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements.
12
NOTE 10.
DISCLOSURES ABOUT THE FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
                                      
The fair value of the Company's debt instruments are summarized as follows:
 
 
Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market information and information about the financial instrument. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
13

Exhibit 99.2
This Quarterly Report contains statements that constitute forward looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including availability under credit facilities, levels of capital expenditures, sources of funds and funding requirements, among others. Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties and that actual results or developments may differ materially from the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Factors that may cause such differences to occur include, but are not limited to:
the level of our revenues;
                 
the cost of programming and industry conditions;
                 
the regulatory environment in which we operate;
                 
developments in the government investigations relating to improper expense recognition and the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements;
                 
the outcome of litigation and other proceedings, including the matters described in the accompanying financial statements;
                 
general economic conditions in the areas in which we operate;
                 
demand for advertising time and space;
                 
our ability to obtain content for our programming businesses;
                 
the level of our expenses;
                 
future acquisitions and dispositions of assets;
                 
the demand for our programming among other cable television and direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators and our ability to maintain and renew affiliation agreements with cable television and DBS operators;
                 
market demand for new programming services;
                 
other risks and uncertainties inherent in our programming businesses;
                 
financial community and rating agency perceptions of our business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which we operate, and the additional factors described herein.
                 
We disclaim any obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements contained herein, except as otherwise required by applicable federal securities laws.
1
Overview
We provide television programming to operators of cable television systems and DBS operators throughout the United States. We own three nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment programming networks:  AMC; WE: Women's Entertainment, or WE; and The Independent Film Channel, or IFC.
general economic conditions including capital market conditions, the effectiveness of direct competition, our ability to manage our businesses effectively, and our relative strength and leverage in the marketplace, both with suppliers and customers.
Our future performance depends on, among other factors,
We earn revenues in two principal ways. First, we receive affiliate fee payments from operators of cable television systems and DBS operators. These revenues are generally on a per subscriber basis and earned under multi-year contracts referred to as affiliation agreements with those operators. The specific affiliate fees we earn vary from operator to operator and also vary among our networks but are generally based upon the number of each operator's subscribers who receive our programming, referred to as "viewing subscribers". The second principal source of revenues is from advertising. Under our agreements with cable television system and DBS operators, we have the right to sell a specific amount of advertising time on our programming networks. Our advertising revenues are more variable than affiliate fees because most of our advertising is sold on a short-term basis, not under long-term contracts. Also, our advertising revenues vary based upon the popularity of our programming as measured by rating services.
We seek to grow our revenues by increasing the number of distributors that carry our services and the number of subscribers to cable television and DBS systems that receive our programming. We refer to this as our "penetration."  AMC, which is widely distributed, has less ability to increase its penetration than WE and IFC, which are not as widely distributed as AMC, a primarily analog service. WE and IFC, although carried by many of the larger distributors, have higher growth opportunities resulting from their current carriage levels with cable television operators. IFC is currently carried primarily on digital tiers while WE is carried on either analog expanded basic or digital tiers. Therefore, WE and IFC penetration rates may increase if operators are successful in converting their analog subscribers to digital tiers of service. Our revenues may also increase over time through contractual rate increases stipulated in certain of our affiliation agreements. In negotiating for increased carriage, we may be subject to requests by distributors to make upfront payments in exchange for additional subscribers, which we record as a reduction to revenue over the period of the related subscriber guarantee, or to waive or accept lower subscriber fees if certain numbers of additional subscribers are provided. We also may help fund the distributors' efforts to market our channels or we may permit distributors to offer limited promotional periods without payment of subscriber fees. As we continue our efforts to add subscribers, our subscriber revenue may be negatively affected by subscriber acquisition fees (deferred carriage), discounted subscriber fees and other payments; however, we believe that these transactions generate a positive return on investment over the contract period. We seek to increase our advertising revenues through intensified marketing and by airing an increased number of minutes of national advertising, but ultimately, the level of our advertising revenues is directly related to the overall distribution of our programming, penetration of our services and the popularity (including within desirable demographic groups) of our services as measured by rating services.
2
Our principal goals are to increase our affiliation fee revenues and our advertising revenues by increasing distribution and penetration of our services. To do this, we must continue to contract for and produce high-quality, attractive programming. Our greatest challenge arises from the increasing concentration of subscribers in the hands of a few cable television and DBS operators. This increased concentration enhances the power of those operators and could adversely affect our ability to increase the penetration of our services or even result in decreased penetration. In addition, this concentration gives those operators greater leverage in negotiating the pricing and other terms of affiliation agreements. The Company had three customers that in the aggregate accounted for approximately 37% and 35% of the Company's consolidated net trade receivable balances at March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively, which exposes the Company to a concentration of credit risk. These customers accounted for approximately 39% and 41% of the Company's net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Moreover, as a result of this concentration, the potential impact of a loss of any one of our major affiliate relationships would have a significant adverse impact on our business.
The Company classifies its business interests into two reportable segments:  AMC Networks (which comprises AMC and WE) and IFC.
Certain Transactions
The following transactions occurred during the periods covered by this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
In March 2005, $155.6 million of amounts due from Rainbow Media Holdings LLC was converted to equity and recorded as a deemed capital distribution.
In August 2004, American Movie Classics Company LLC ("AMC LLC") issued 3.5 million shares of redeemable preferred membership interests with an aggregate liquidation preference of $350.0 million to Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, which was recorded as a deemed capital distribution. In March 2005, the redeemable preferred membership interests were recontributed to a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and converted back to common membership interests in AMC LLC. The impact of the elimination was to reduce debt by $350.0 million and decrease member's deficiency by the same amount in 2005.
Cautionary Note Concerning Historical Financial Statements
In addition, our financial information does not necessarily reflect what our results of operations and financial position would have been if we had operated as an entity separate from Cablevision during the periods presented.
Investors should be aware that we are highly leveraged as a result of the financing transactions which took place in August 2004. As a result, we incur significant interest charges.
3
Results of Operations
The following table sets forth on a historical basis certain items related to operations as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DATA
 
4
Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2006 Versus the Three Months Ended March 31, 2005
for the three months ended March 31, 2006 increased $10.6 million (8%) as compared to revenues for the same period in the prior year. The net increase is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
 
The increase in net revenue from advertising for the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to the same period in the prior year is driven by increases at AMC Networks and IFC of $5.8 million and $1.3 million, respectively. The increase in advertising revenue at AMC Networks is driven by increased rates and units sold. The increase in net affiliate revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to the same period in the prior year is driven by increases at AMC Networks and IFC of $1.4 million and $2.1 million, respectively, resulting from an increase in programming network subscribers and rate increases. Viewing subscribers as of March 31, 2006 compared to the same period in the prior year, increased 7.6% and 1.3% at IFC and AMC Networks, respectively.
The Company believes the WE and IFC programming services may benefit from increased distribution, especially on the digital tiers of cable television operators as digital capacity continues to become available; and increased advertising revenues as cable networks, including ad-supported niche programming networks (such as WE), attract a greater advertising market share. These increases would be offset by the potentially negative effects on negotiated net effective rates for our programming services that may result from the consolidation of cable television operators and the limit on increases in the subscriber base for our substantially fully penetrated AMC programming service.  Changes in the viewership ratings of our AMC and WE programming services may also significantly affect future advertising revenues.
Our advertising revenue as a percentage of total revenue has increased in the 2006 period as compared to the 2005 period and we expect this trend to continue.
include primarily amortization of costs to license programming, including feature films, and programming and production costs. Depreciation and amortization expense of fixed assets and definite lived intangibles are not included in technical and operating expenses.
Technical and operating expenses
Technical and operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2006 increased $10.1 million (29%) compared to the same period in 2005. As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased 5% for the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to the same period in 2005. The increase in technical and operating expense is driven by an increase at AMC Networks and IFC of $8.5 million and $1.6 million, respectively. The increase at AMC Networks is primarily related to increased spending on licensed films and original productions. The increase at IFC is primarily related to increased amortization of licensed film content.
5
We believe that, in general, the level of our annual historical technical and operating expenses is largely indicative of future expense levels; however, there may be significant changes in the level of our expenses from quarter to quarter due to content acquisitions or program development activities. As additional competition for product develops from new programming services and alternate distribution technologies continue to develop in the industry, costs for film and other programming content may increase.
include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs and costs of office facilities. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $7.2 million (19%) for the three months ended March 31, 2006 as compared to 2005. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 3% for the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to the same period in 2005. The net increase is attributable to the following:
Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
The increase in selling and marketing costs at AMC Networks of $3.8 million and the decrease at IFC of $0.7 million is primarily attributable to marketing and promotion associated with the premiere of new original programming during the quarter.  The increase in long-term incentive plan expense is attributable to an increase at AMC Networks and IFC of $1.0 million and $0.2 million, respectively, due to new grants at the end of 2005 and during the three months ended March 31, 2006.  The increase in share-based compensation expenses (including the effects of adopting Statement No. 123R) of $2.5 million is driven by an increase at AMC Networks and IFC of $1.1 million and $1.4 million, respectively.  The increase in other general and administrative costs is primarily driven by an increase at IFC of $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to the same period in 2005.
decreased $0.1 million (1%) for the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to the same period in 2005 due to a decrease in depreciation expense relating to fixed assets.
Depreciation and amortization
increased $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to the same period in the prior year. Although outstanding bank debt decreased by $6.0 million at March 31, 2006 compared to the same period in 2005, interest expense on such bank debt increased by $3.0 million driven by higher variable interest rates. The increase in interest expense was partially offset by an increase in interest income of $1.1 million.
Net interest expense
of $4.2 million and $7.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006, and 2005, respectively, resulted primarily from pretax income, the impact of state taxes and non-deductible expenses.
Income tax expense
6
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
The operations of the businesses that are included in our consolidated financial statements collectively have historically generated net cash flow from operations. However, each of our programming businesses has substantial programming, acquisition and development expenditure requirements.
We generated positive net cash from operating activities during 2005 and during the first quarter of 2006.  Our cash on hand and net cash from operating activities, plus proceeds from borrowings available to us, will provide funding to Rainbow developing programming services, which are not our subsidiaries, including the VOOM HD Networks, as well as for any other general corporate purposes, subject to the applicable covenants and limitations contained in our financing agreements. We currently expect that the net funding and investment requirements of these other Rainbow programming entities will be funded by distributions from us. In the first quarter of 2006, we distributed $65.0 million to Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC, our direct parent, to fund Rainbow developing programming services, including VOOM HD Networks.
The following table summarizes our outstanding debt and present value of capital leases as well as interest expense and capital expenditures as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2006:
 
Total amounts payable in connection with our outstanding obligations as of March 31, 2006, including capital leases, are as follows for the following periods ended December 31, and thereafter:
 
Debt Financing Agreements
Our credit facility is a $950 million senior secured credit facility, comprised of a $600 million term loan and a $350 million revolving credit facility secured by the assets and common equity interests of AMC LLC, The Independent Film Channel LLC and WE: Women's Entertainment LLC and guaranteed by Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC and substantially all our other direct and indirect subsidiaries. Outstanding borrowings under the term loan were $594.0 million as of April 26, 2006, with $350.0 million in undrawn revolver commitments. Our ability to use the undrawn funds may be limited by covenants and restrictions on the permitted use of borrowed funds.
7
We were in compliance with all of our financial covenants as of March 31, 2006.
Future access to the debt markets and the cost of any future debt issuances are also influenced by credit ratings, which are provided by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's. On February 27, 2006, Standard & Poor's announced that our corporate credit rating was changed to BB from BB-, the senior secured bank loan rating to BB+ from BB and the senior and senior subordinated unsecured debt to B+ from B. The ratings outlook was changed to stable from developing. Moody's Investors Service's ratings are B1 for the corporate family rating, Ba3 for the senior secured bank loan, B2 for the senior unsecured debt and B3 for the senior subordinated debt and the ratings outlook is stable.  Any future downgrade to our credit ratings by either rating agency could increase the interest rate on future debt issuances and could adversely impact our ability to raise additional funds.
CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $6.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to $6.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005. The 2006 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $55.3 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items, partially offset by a net decrease in cash resulting from    net feature film inventory purchases totaling $27.3 million and decreases in cash resulting from a decrease of $17.6 million in accounts payable and accrued expenses and a decrease in net other assets and liabilities totaling $4.4 million.
changes in assets and liabilities of $10.4 million.
net feature film inventory purchases totaling $25.7 million, a decrease in cash resulting from a decrease of $30.5 million in accounts payable and accrued expenses,  and an increase in cash resulting from
The 2005 net cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from $51.9 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items partially offset by a net decrease in cash resulting from
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2006 was $0.2 million compared to less than $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005. The 2006 and 2005 investing activities consisted of capital expenditures.
Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $67.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006 compared to $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2005. In 2006 financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $65.0 million, repayment of bank debt of $1.5 million, and principal payments on capital leases of $0.5 million. In 2005, financing activities consisted of principal payments on capital leases.
8
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
In February 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments - an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. Statement No. 155 allows financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative and that otherwise would require bifurcation to be accounted for as a whole on a fair value basis, at the holders' election. Statement No. 155 also clarifies and amends certain other provisions of Statement No. 133 and Statement No. 140. Statement No. 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued in fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2006. We do not expect that the adoption of Statement No. 155 will have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.
9


