FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20060327200509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 8.01 Other Events.
        On March 5, 2006, Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "Company") announced that its Board of Directors was considering the payment of a special dividend. On March 24, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the Company's management to enter into a memorandum of understanding with respect to the settlement of a lawsuit against the Company and its directors and certain members and affiliates of the Dolan family that is pending in New York Supreme Court in Nassau County and which, among other things, challenged, and sought to enjoin, the special dividend. The memorandum of understanding was entered into on March 27, 2006. The proposed settlement is subject to court approval. This lawsuit and certain other litigation challenging the proposed special dividend are discussed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, under the caption "Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  Dolan Family Group Proposal and Special Dividend Litigation."
        In connection with the proposed settlement, the Company's Board of Directors has appointed a special committee of independent directors and has authorized and directed the special committee to evaluate the proposed special dividend and make a recommendation to the Board as to whether a dividend should be paid and, if so, in what amount. The special committee consists of Thomas V. Reifenheiser and Vice Admiral John R. Ryan USN (Ret.).
 
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 27, 2006
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 27, 2006
 


