FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20060808074159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On August 8, 2006, the Registrants announced selected operating and financial measures for the three months ended June 30, 2006 and disclosed that they would not be releasing full financial information at this time in light of the matters discussed under Items 4.02 and 8.01.
     A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 4.02 Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
     (a) On August 7, 2006, the Registrants' management concluded that in light of the expected restatement discussed in Item 8.01, the Registrants' previously issued financial statements for year 1997 and each subsequent fiscal year and for the interim periods included therein and for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 should no longer be relied upon. The Registrants' Audit Committee has concurred in this conclusion. The matters disclosed in this Item 4.02(a) have been discussed with KPMG LLP, the Registrants' independent registered public accounting firm.
Item 8.01 Other Events
     In light of published reports concerning the pricing of stock options and the timing of option grants at numerous companies, the Registrants undertook a voluntary review of past practices in connection with grants of stock options and stock appreciation rights ("SARs"). As a result of that review, which is ongoing, the Registrants have determined that the date and exercise price assigned to a number of its stock option and SAR grants during the 1997-2002 period did not correspond to the actual grant date and the closing price of Cablevision Systems Corporation's common stock on that day.
     The Registrants expect to restate previously issued annual and interim financial statements to record adjustments relating to stock option and SAR matters. The Registrants have not fully determined the amount of such adjustments or the resulting tax and accounting impacts. Accordingly, management has concluded that the financial statements for all the periods beginning January 1, 1997 should not be relied upon.
     The Registrants will not be in a position to file their Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 pending completion of the review. The Registrants today released selected operating and financial measures for the second quarter of 2006.
     The Registrants' review is being conducted with outside legal counsel that had not previously been involved with the Registrants' stock option plans. A special committee of independent directors has received periodic reports on this matter. The Registrants have contacted the Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York to advise them of these matters.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
- Cablevision Systems Corporation (NYSE:CVC) today reported that, because of the results of an ongoing stock options review and an expected restatement of financial results (as described below), the Company will not release full second quarter financial information at this time. The Company did release the following selected operating and financial measures for the second quarter ended June 30, 2006:
Bethpage, N.Y., August 8, 2006
The company also updated certain of its previously-issued full year 2006 guidance as outlined on page 3 of this release.
Revenue (unaudited)
The net revenues of Fox Sports Net (FSN) Ohio, FSN Florida, FSN Chicago and Rainbow DBS's distribution operations are included in discontinued operations and are not presented in this table. The VOOM HD Networks are included in the Rainbow segment for all periods presented.
Segment revenues for the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005 are as follows:
Telecommunications Services  Cable Television and Lightpath
Telecommunications Services includes Cable Television  Cablevision's "Optimum" branded video, high-speed data, and voice residential and commercial services offered over its cable infrastructure  and its "Optimum Lightpath" branded, fiber-delivered commercial data and voice services.
Telecommunications Services net revenues for the second quarter 2006 rose 17.2% to $1,049.1 million, compared to the prior year period.
Cable Television
Cable Television second quarter 2006 net revenues increased 17.9% to $1,008.4 million, compared to the prior year period. The increase in net revenue resulted principally from growth in video, high-speed data, and voice customers, which is reflected in the addition of more than 1.5 million Revenue Generating Units since the second quarter of 2005.
 
Second quarter 2006 includes:
Lightpath
For the second quarter 2006, Lightpath net revenues increased 11.3% to $52.9 million, compared to the prior year period. The increase in net revenue is primarily attributable to growth in Optimum Voice call completion activity and Ethernet data services over Lightpath's fiber infrastructure, offset in part by a decline in traditional phone service usage. Lightpath revenue excluding Optimum Voice call activity would have increased 1.0%.
Rainbow
Rainbow consists of our AMC, IFC and WE tv (formerly known as WE: Women's Entertainment) National Programming services as well as Other Programming which includes: FSN Bay Area, fuse, Mag Rack, Sportskool, News 12 Networks, IFC Entertainment, VOOM HD Networks, Rainbow Network Communications, Rainbow Advertising Sales Corp. and other Rainbow ventures. In connection with the resolution of a contractual dispute with one of its major affiliates, the operations of FSN Chicago were shut down in June 2006.
Rainbow net revenues for the second quarter 2006 increased 10.7% to $225.9 million, compared to the prior year period. Second quarter 2005 revenue excludes certain affiliate revenue attributable to the quarter that was not recognized due to a contractual dispute, until the third quarter of 2005 when such dispute was resolved. If this net revenue had been recognized in the second quarter of 2005, second quarter 2006 net revenue would have increased 7.5%.
AMC/IFC/WE
Second quarter 2006 net revenues increased 12.0% to $151.7 million, compared to the prior year period. As noted above, second quarter 2005 net revenue excludes certain affiliate revenue, which was recorded in the third quarter of 2005. If this revenue had been recognized in the second quarter of 2005, AMC/IFC/WE's second quarter 2006 net revenue would have increased 7.2%.
The second quarter 2006 includes:
Other Programming
Second quarter 2006 net revenues rose 4.9% to $79.9 million, as compared to the prior year period. The increase in net revenue was driven primarily by higher revenue at the regional sports and news networks, IFC Entertainment and fuse, partially offset by the impact of the closure of two Metro Channels in 2005.
 
Madison Square Garden
Madison Square Garden's primary businesses include: MSG Network, FSN New York, the New York Knicks, the New York Rangers, the New York Liberty, MSG Entertainment, the MSG Arena complex and Radio City Music Hall.
Madison Square Garden's second quarter 2006 net revenue increased 6.9% to $162.0 million compared to the second quarter of 2005.
MSG's second quarter 2006 revenue was primarily impacted by
:
Total Company
Consolidated net revenue grew 15.6% to more than $1.4 billion, compared to the prior year period, driven primarily by the addition of more than 1.5 million Revenue Generating Units since the second quarter of 2005 in Cable Television, combined with revenue growth at all other reportable segments.
In addition, in April 2006 the Company paid a $10 per share special cash dividend (a total of approximately $2.96 billion) funded by approximately $3 billion of additional debt. Second quarter 2006 total net interest expense will reflect a significant increase, as compared to the prior year period, primarily as a result of the additional borrowings.
2006 Outlook
The company updates certain of its previously issued full year 2006 guidance (as provided on May 9, 2006 in the first quarter 2006 earnings release) as outlined in the table below:
The Company expects to provide an update for the balance of its previously issued guidance when it releases its full second quarter 2006 financial results.
 
Stock Options Review
In light of published reports concerning the pricing of stock options and the timing of option grants at numerous companies, the Company undertook a voluntary review of past practices in connection with grants of stock options and stock appreciation rights ("SARs"). As a result of that review, which is ongoing, the Company has determined that the date and exercise price assigned to a number of its stock option and SAR grants during the 1997-2002 period did not correspond to the actual grant date and the closing price of the Company's common stock on that day.
The Company expects to restate previously issued annual and interim financial statements to record adjustments relating to stock option and SAR matters. The Company has not fully determined the amount of such adjustments or the resulting tax and accounting impacts. Accordingly, management has concluded that the financial statements for all the periods beginning January 1, 1997 should not be relied upon.
The Company will not be in a position to file its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 pending completion of the review.
The Company's review is being conducted with outside legal counsel that had not previously been involved with the Company's stock option plans. A special committee of independent directors has received periodic reports on this matter. The Company has contacted the Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York to advise them of these matters.
COMPANY DESCRIPTION
Cablevision Systems Corporation is one of the nation's leading entertainment and telecommunications companies. Its cable television operations serve more than 3 million households in the New York metropolitan area. The company's advanced telecommunications offerings include its iO: Interactive Optimum digital television, Optimum Online high-speed Internet, Optimum Voice digital voice-over-cable, and its Optimum Lightpath integrated business communications services. Cablevision's Rainbow Media Holdings LLC operates several successful programming businesses, including AMC, IFC, WE and other national and regional networks. In addition to its telecommunications and programming businesses, Cablevision owns Madison Square Garden and its sports teams, the New York Knicks, Rangers and Liberty. The company also operates New York's famed Radio City Music Hall, and owns and operates Clearview Cinemas. Additional information about Cablevision Systems Corporation is available on the Web at www.cablevision.com.
This release contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including financial community and rating agency perceptions of the company and its business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which it operates and the factors described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained therein. The company disclaims any obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained herein.
Cablevision's Web site: www.cablevision.com The conference call will be Webcast live today at 10:00 a.m. EST Conference call dial-in number is (973) 935-2967 Conference call replay number (973) 341-3080/ pin #7622703 until August 15, 2006
 
REVENUES, NET
 


