FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20060607170545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
ITEM 1.01    ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
        Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "Company") grants various awards to its executive officers under its 2006 Employee Stock Plan (previously included as Exhibit A to the Company's April 28, 2006 Proxy Statement) and its 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors (previously included as Exhibit C to the Company's April 28, 2006 Proxy Statement). Forms of award agreements used under the Plans are attached hereto as exhibits and are hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 9.01    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: June 7, 2006
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: June 7, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
[Full Name of Employee]
[Address]
[Date]
Dear [First Name]:
        Pursuant to the Company's 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ""), on ________, ____ (the ") you were selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Paragraph 14, the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "") to receive nonqualified stock options (the "") to purchase ____ (___) shares of NY Group Class A Common Stock of the Company (the "") at a price of $____ per share.
Plan
"Effective Date
Committee
Company
Options
Class A Common Stock
        Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Options are granted subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
         1.    . If you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or any Affiliate, the Options will become exercisable in accordance with the following schedule:
Vesting
         2.     . You may exercise the Options that become vested and exercisable by giving written notice to the Secretary of the Company specifying the number of shares of Class A Common Stock as to which the Options are being exercised (the ""), together with a copy of this Agreement. Unless the Company chooses to settle such exercise in cash, shares of Class A Common Stock, or a combination thereof pursuant to Paragraph 3, you will be required to deliver to the Company within five (5) days of your delivery of the Exercise Notice, payment in full of the exercise price due on account of such exercise. You may pay the exercise price by cash, by certified check, by surrendering shares of Class A Common Stock or by any combination thereof. Class A Common Stock used to pay the exercise price pursuant to this Paragraph 2 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day preceding the date of exercise.
Exercise
Exercise Notice
         3.    . Upon receipt of the Exercise Notice, the Company may elect, in lieu of issuing shares of Class A Common Stock, to settle the exercise covered by such notice by paying you an amount equal to the product obtained by multiplying (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Class A Common Stock on the date of exercise over the per share exercise price of the Options (the "") by (ii) the number of shares of Class A Common Stock specified in the Exercise Notice. The amount payable to you in these circumstances may be paid by the Company either in cash or in shares of Class A Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the Option Spread, or a combination thereof, as the Company shall determine. Class A Common Stock used to pay the Option Spread pursuant to this Paragraph 3 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day the Exercise Notice is received by the Company.
Option Spread
Option Spread
         4.    . The Options will terminate automatically and without further notice on the tenth (10) anniversary of the Effective Date, or at any of the following dates, if earlier:
Expiration
th
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, as determined by the Committee, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" means your inability to perform for six (6) continuous months substantially all the essential duties of your occupation, as determined by the Committee.
Disability
        For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the voluntary termination by you of your employment with the Company and its Affiliates at such time as (i) you have attained at least the age of fifty-five (55) and (ii) you have been employed by the Company or its Affiliates for at least five (5) years, the Company may nevertheless decide, in its sole discretion, not to treat your termination of employment as a "Retirement" hereunder. Treatment of your termination of employment as a "Retirement" hereunder shall be further subject to your execution (and the effectiveness) of a retirement agreement to the Company's satisfaction, including, without limitation (to the extent desired by the Company), non-compete, non-disparagement, non-solicitation, confidentiality and further cooperation
Retirement
provided that
obligations/restrictions on you as well as a general release by you of the Company and its Affiliates. The above definition of "Retirement" is solely for purposes of this Agreement and shall not, in any way, create or imply any obligations of the Company or any of its Affiliates (under any other agreement or otherwise) with respect to any such termination of your employment.
        Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Paragraph 4, in the event of your death during the period that your Options are exercisable, whether death occurs before or after you cease employment, the Options that are exercisable at the time of your death shall remain exercisable by your estate or beneficiary until the earlier of the third (3) anniversary of your death and the eleventh (11) anniversary of the Effective Date.
rd
th
         5.     . As set forth in attached hereto, the Options may be affected in the event of a Change of Control or a going private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto) of the Company.
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction
Appendix 1
Appendix 1
         6.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of exercising the Options and receiving shares of Class A Common Stock and cash. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
        If, in connection with the exercise of the Options, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
         7.     . You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Options, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions
         8.     . The Options are not intended to qualify as "incentive stock options" within the meaning of Section 422A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Non-Qualification as ISO
         9.     . In the event that (a) you shall voluntarily terminate your employment or your employment is terminated for Cause and (b) you shall become employed by, consult to, or have any interest, directly or indirectly, in any Competitive Entity (as defined below) within one (1) year of exercising any Options hereunder, then you shall within ten (10) business days thereof pay the Company, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, an amount equal to the sum of (a) the product of the Option Spread multiplied by the number of shares of Class A Common Stock with respect to which the Options were exercised during such one-year period, plus (b) interest at a rate equal to the lesser of (i) twelve percent (12%) per annum or (ii) the maximum interest rate permitted by applicable law, compounded quarterly, calculated from the date you exercised the Options until the date such payment to the Company is made. A "Competitive Entity" shall mean (1) any company that competes with any of the Company's cable television, telephone or on-line data businesses in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined in attached hereto) or that competes with any of the Company's programming, cinema, sports or entertainment businesses, nationally or regionally, as applicable; or (2) any trade or professional association representing any of the companies covered by this Paragraph 9, other than the National Cable Television
Relationship with Competitive Entities
Appendix 1
Association and any state cable television association. Ownership of not more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding stock of any publicly-traded company shall not be a violation of this Paragraph 9.
        By accepting this Agreement, you understand that the terms and conditions of this Paragraph 9 may limit your ability to earn a livelihood in a business similar to the business of the Company, but nevertheless hereby agree that the restrictions and limitations hereof are reasonable in scope, area and duration, and that the consideration provided under the Plan and this Agreement is sufficient to justify the restrictions and limitations contained in this Paragraph 9. Accordingly, in consideration thereof and in light of your education, skills and abilities, by participating in the Plan, you hereby agree that you will not assert, and it should not be considered, that such provisions are either unreasonable in scope, area or duration, or will prevent you from earning a living, or otherwise are void, voidable or unenforceable or should be voided or held unenforceable. You further understand and hereby agree that the restrictions and limitations contained in this Paragraph 9 are ancillary to, and part of, the Plan and this Agreement, and are reasonably necessary to protect the good will and business interests of the Company.
         10.     . You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the shares of Class A Common Stock are publicly-traded securities and (ii) the shares of Class A Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Options may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
Securities Law Acknowledgments
         11.     . This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects shall be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
         12.     . You hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States of America located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You hereby agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in any manner as may be permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof.
Jurisdiction and Venue
         13.     . You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Right of Offset
         14.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
         15.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
         16.     . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 5 and Appendix 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be "terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event." Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment
         17.     . The Options granted by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
Options Subject to the Plan
         18.     . Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced, such modification, renewal or replacement shall not extend the time any Options may be exercised beyond the time provided herein or in such original employment agreement), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Options covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Options covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
provided that
         19.     . The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
         20.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
         21.     . The terms or conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
         22.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that all shares of Class A Common Stock and cash received upon each exercise of the Options shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares of Class A Common Stock and cash be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
         23.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Com-
No Right to Continued Employment
pany or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
         24.     . The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings
         25.     . Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
Effective Date
         26.     . Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures
        By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
______________________________ Optionee: ______________________
        In the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company or a "going private transaction," as defined below, your entitlement to exercise the Options shall be as follows:
         1.     If the Company or the "surviving entity", as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, to the extent that the Options have not been exercised and have not expired (the ""), no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of common shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options multiplied by (ii) the excess of (x) the "offer price per share," the "acquisition price per share" or the "merger price per share," each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable, over (y) the exercise price of the shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options, or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you in substitution for your Outstanding Options an award of options for shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms with a value equivalent to the Outstanding Options and which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
Outstanding Options
         2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Section 1(A) above.
         3.     The cash award provided in Section 1 or 2 shall become payable to you, and the substitute options of the surviving entity provided in Section 1 will become exercisable (1) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were not exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, at the earlier of (a) the date on which the Outstanding Options would otherwise have become exercisable hereunder had they continued in effect, or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for "good reason," as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (2) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, the substitute options shall become exercisable immediately and the cash awards shall become payable promptly. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving en-
tity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
         4.     As used herein,
        "Change of Control" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "New York City Metropolitan Area" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
        "Surviving entity" means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a "") which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Company's cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Section 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of "substantially all" the Company's New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
parent entity
        "Going private transaction" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
        "Good reason" means
        (i)     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Effective Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
        (ii)     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
        (iii)     the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
        (iv)     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Section 1.
        "Offer price per share" shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Offer
        "Merger price per share" shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ""), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger
        "Acquisition price per share" shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Company's voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.

Exhibit 10.2
[Full Name of Employee]
[Address]
[Date]
Dear [First Name]:
        Pursuant to the Company's 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Section 11, the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "") to receive _____ (___) restricted shares ("") of NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("") effective as of ______, ____ (the ").
Plan
Committee
Company
Restricted Shares
Common Shares
"Grant Date
        Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Restricted Shares are subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.     Subject to Sections 2 and 3, none of your Restricted Shares will vest and you will forfeit all of them if you do not remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Grant Date through _____________.
Vesting.
2.     If your employment is terminated as a result of your death, all of the Restricted Shares will vest as of the termination date.
Accelerated Vesting in the Event of Death.
3.     As set forth in attached hereto, your entitlement to Restricted Shares may be affected in the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going-private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto).
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction.
Annex 1
Annex 1
4.     . In the event that (a) you shall voluntarily terminate your employment or your employment is terminated for Cause (as defined below) and (b) you shall become employed by, consult to, or have any interest, directly or indirectly, in any Competitive Entity (as defined below) within one (1) year after your Restricted Shares have vested, then you shall within ten (10) business days thereof pay the Company, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, an amount equal to (a) the gain (whether or not realized) attributable to the vesting of the Restricted Shares, plus (b) interest at a rate equal to the lesser of (i) twelve percent (12%) per annum or (ii) the maximum interest rate permitted by applicable law, compounded quarterly, calculated from the date the Restricted Shares vested until the date such payment to the Company is made. Such gain shall be equal to the greater of the (y) positive difference, if any, between the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares on the date such shares vest and the Par Value Amount paid for the Restricted Shares or (z) positive difference, if any, between the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares on your first (1) day of employment by the Competitive Entity and the Par Value Amount paid for such shares. A "Competitive Entity" shall mean (1) any company that competes with any of the Company's cable television, telephone or on-line data businesses in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined in attached hereto) or that competes with any of the Company's
Relationship with Competitive Entities
st
Annex 1
programming, cinema, sports or entertainment businesses, nationally or regionally, as applicable; or (2) any trade or professional association representing any of the companies covered by this Section 4, other than the National Cable Television Association and any state cable television association. Ownership of not more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding stock of any publicly-traded company shall not be a violation of this Section 4. "Cause" shall mean, as determined by the Committee, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
nolo contendere
        By accepting this Agreement, you understand that the terms and conditions of this Section 4 may limit your ability to earn a livelihood in a business similar to the business of the Company, but nevertheless hereby agree that the restrictions and limitations hereof are reasonable in scope, area and duration, and that the consideration provided under the Plan and this Agreement is sufficient to justify the restrictions and limitations contained in this Section 4. Accordingly, in consideration thereof and in light of your education, skills and abilities, by participating in the Plan, you hereby agree that you will not assert, and it should not be considered, that such provisions are either unreasonable in scope, area or duration, or will prevent you from earning a living, or otherwise are void, voidable or unenforceable or should be voided or held unenforceable. You further understand and hereby agree that the restrictions and limitations contained in this Section 4 are ancillary to, and part of, the Plan and this Agreement, and are reasonably necessary to protect the good will and business interests of the Company.
5.     You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Restricted Shares, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions.
6.     You have full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Shares. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, all ordinary (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) cash dividends and distributions paid on your Restricted Shares will be retained by the Company for your account until your Restricted Shares vest and such dividends and distributions will be paid to you (without interest) when your Restricted Shares vest. Such dividends, to the extent retained, shall revert back to the Company if for any reason the Restricted Share upon which such dividends were paid reverts back to the Company.
Right to Vote and Receive Dividends.
7.     . If you wish to make an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, to recognize income with respect to the Restricted Shares before they become vested, you must file a Section 83(b) election with the Internal Revenue Service of the Grant Date and provide a copy of that filing to the Company. You are strongly encouraged to seek the advice of a tax consultant regarding the advisability of making a Section 83(b) election. A Sample Form of Election under Section 83(b) is attached for your reference as .
Section 83(b) Election
within thirty (30) days
You should note that any taxes you pay as a result of your Section 83(b) election cannot be recovered if your Restricted Shares are forfeited or decline in value. It is your sole responsibility to timely file an election under Section 83(b). You must notify the Company within ten (10) days of filing any such election.
Annex 2
8.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Restricted Shares. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
        If, in connection with the Restricted Shares, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
9.     Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, delivery of the Restricted Shares will be by book-entry credit to an account in your name that the Company has established at a custody agent (the ""). The Company's transfer agent, Mellon Investor Services LLC, shall act as the custodian of the Restricted Shares; , the Company may in its sole discretion appoint another custodian to replace Mellon Investor Services LLC. On the date your Restricted Shares vest, if you have complied with your obligations under this Agreement and that your tax obligations with respect to the vested Restricted Shares are appropriately satisfied, at your request, we will either instruct the custodian to electronically transfer your Common Shares to a brokerage or other account you specify or deliver to you a physical stock certificate representing your Common Shares.
Delivery.
custodian
however
provided
10.     You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Right of Offset.
11.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
12.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
13.     The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 3 and Annex 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be "terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event." Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment.
14.     The Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
Restricted Shares Subject to the Plan.
15.     Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment
Entire Agreement.
agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Restricted Shares covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Restricted Shares covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
16.     The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
17.     This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
18.     You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
Jurisdiction and Venue.
19.     . You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the Common Shares are publicly-traded securities and (ii) Common Shares may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
Securities Law Acknowledgments
20.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
21.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
22.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Restricted Shares covered hereby shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
23.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
No Right to Continued Employment
24.     The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings.
25.     Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Grant Date.
Effective Date.
26.     Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures.
        By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (iii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
________________________________ Name:
 
 
In the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company or a "going private transaction," as defined below, your entitlement to Restricted Shares shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the "surviving entity," as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of your unvested Restricted Shares multiplied by (ii) the "offer price per share," the "acquisition price per share" or the "merger price per share," each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you an award of shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms and with a value equivalent to your unvested Restricted Shares which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Paragraph 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Paragraph 1 or 2 shall become payable to you at the earlier of (a) the date on which your Restricted Shares are scheduled to vest, or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for "good reason," as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in
Change of Control
clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
"" means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a "") which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Company's cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Paragraph 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Paragraph 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of "" the Company's New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Surviving entity
parent entity
substantially all
"" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going private transaction
"" means
Good reason
        a.     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
        b.     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
        c.     the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
        d.     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Paragraph 1.
"" shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per Share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Offer price per share
Offer
"" shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ""), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share
Merger
"" shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Company's voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
Acquisition price per share
Pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Treasury Regulation 1.83-2, the undersigned taxpayer hereby elects to include in taxpayer's gross income or alternative minimum taxable income, as the case may be, the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the Property (as hereinafter defined) at the time of transfer over the amount the taxpayer paid for such Property. The following information is furnished in accordance with Treasury Regulation 1.83-2(e).
The undersigned has submitted a copy of this statement to the person for whom the services were performed in connection with the undersigned's receipt of the above-described Property. The undersigned understands that the foregoing election may not be revoked except with the consent of the Commissioner.
The undersigned spouse of taxpayer joins in this election.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
Name Address
Dear ________:
        Pursuant to the Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "Company") 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Plan"), you have been granted, as of the date hereof, non-qualified stock options to purchase ______ shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock, par value $.01 per share ("Shares") at an exercise price of $____ per Share ("Options") and ______ restricted stock units ("Units") (collectively, with the Options, referred to herein as the "Awards"). The Awards are granted subject to the terms and conditions set forth below and in the Plan:
        1.        OPTIONS:
        2.        RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS:
        3.        The Awards (or any rights and obligations thereunder) granted to you may not be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and all such Awards (and any rights thereunder) shall be exercisable during your lifetime only by you or your legal representative. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, the Board of Directors may permit, under such terms and conditions that it deems appropriate in its sole discretion, you to transfer any Award to any person or entity that the Board of Directors so determines. Any assignment in violation of the provisions of this Section or Section 11 of the Plan shall be void.
        4.        It is the Company's intent that the Awards granted comply in all respects with Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Act"). All actions with respect to Awards under the Plan shall be executed in accordance with the requirements of Section 16 of the Act, as amended, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. To the extent that any of the provisions contained herein do not conform with Rule 16b-3 of the Act or any amendments thereto or any successor regulation, then the Committee may make such modifications so as to conform the Awards granted thereunder to the Rule's requirements.
        5.        The Options are not "incentive stock options" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and can not qualify for the special income tax benefits related to such options.
        6.        If the Company shall be required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax laws, rules or regulations in respect of the Awards, you shall make available to the Company, promptly when requested by the Company, sufficient funds to meet the requirements of such withholding and the Company shall be entitled to take and authorize such steps as it may deem advisable in order to have such funds available to the Company out of any funds or property to become due to you.
        7.        The Awards granted by this letter are being issued pursuant and subject to the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings given to such terms that are defined in the Plan.
By your signature, you acknowledge receipt of the Plan and of an executed original of this letter and agree to all of the terms set forth herein.


