FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20071025125252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2 below):
see
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
     On October 24, 2007, Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") held a special shareholders meeting at which shareholders voted on a proposal for the acquisition of Cablevision for $36.26 per share in cash by an entity created by the Dolan Family Group. Cablevision announced that, based on preliminary voting results, it did not receive a sufficient number of votes to approve the acquisition.
     A copy of the press release containing the announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit  99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 25, 2007
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 25, 2007

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cablevision Systems Corporation (NYSE: CVC) announced that, based on preliminary voting results, it did not receive a sufficient number of votes to approve the acquisition of the company for $36.26 per share in cash by an entity created by members of the Dolan Family Group. Cablevision held a special shareholders meeting today at which shareholders voted on the acquisition.
Bethpage, N.Y., October 24, 2007
Charles F. Dolan and James L. Dolan, speaking on behalf of the Dolan Family Group, said, "While we are disappointed that shareholders did not approve the transaction, there is really nothing negative about today's outcome. In fact, in many ways, it is a very positive event. We see today's outcome as a vote of confidence in the prospects of Cablevision, its management team, its 20,000 employees and the industry's future. Cablevision has become a dynamic, industry leader during the past 35 years and we are ready to continue as a public company. We are extremely proud of all of our outstanding employees who have maintained their focus on the business. We look forward to continuing our work together to serve our customers, to build on Cablevision's success and to create value for our shareholders."
Cablevision Systems Corporation is one of the nation's leading entertainment and telecommunications companies. Its cable television operations serve 3.1 million households in the New York metropolitan area. The company's advanced telecommunications offerings include its iO: Interactive Optimum digital television, Optimum Online high-speed Internet, Optimum Voice digital voice-over-cable, and its Optimum Lightpath integrated business communications services. Cablevision's Rainbow Media Holdings LLC operates several successful programming businesses, including AMC, IFC, WE tv and other national and regional networks. In addition to its telecommunications and programming businesses, Cablevision owns Madison Square Garden and its sports teams, the New York Knicks, Rangers and Liberty. The company also operates New York's famed Radio City Music Hall and legendary Beacon Theatre, and owns and operates Clearview Cinemas.
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws that are subject to risks and uncertainties, including the inability to satisfy the conditions to any proposed transaction, general economic conditions, and other factors that may be identified in filings made with the SEC by Cablevision or the Dolan Family Group.


