FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20070515171037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
May 15, 2007
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
CSC HOLDINGS, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
1111 Stewart Avenue, Bethpage, New York 11714
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
Registrants' telephone number, including area code:
(516) 803-2300
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01   REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
On May 15, 2007, Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements of Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries ("RNS"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, Inc., as of March 31, 2007 and for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations were furnished to RNS bondholders in accordance with the requirements of the Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to RNS' and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's $300,000,000 8-3/4% Senior Notes due 2012 and the Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to RNS' and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's $500,000,000 10-3/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014. The RNS Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the RNS Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and both items are being furnished in this Form 8-K filing.
ITEM 9.01
                                      
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
3
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
2
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Three Months Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006
(Dollars in thousands)
(unaudited)
3
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF MEMBER'S DEFICIENCY
Three Months Ended March 31, 2007
(Dollars in thousands)
 
4
 
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Three Months Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006
(Dollars in thousands)
(unaudited)
5
 
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (Dollars in thousands) (unaudited)
NOTE 1.                BUSINESS
In July 2004, Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") formed Rainbow National Services LLC (the "Company").  Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC ("Rainbow Programming Holdings"), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision, owns 100% of the membership interests in the Company.  The Company is a holding company with no independent operations of its own.  Its subsidiaries include entities that principally own nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment services operated as integral parts of Cablevision, including AMC, WE tv and IFC.  The Company's consolidated financial statements have been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Cablevision and reflect certain assumptions and allocations.  The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company could differ from those that might have resulted had the Company been operated autonomously or as an entity independent of Cablevision.
NOTE 2.                BASIS OF PRESENTATION
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X for interim financial information as required by the Company's indentures even though the Company is not a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Accordingly, these consolidated financial statements do not include all the information and notes required for complete annual financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements as of March 31, 2007 and for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 presented herein are unaudited; however, in the opinion of management, such consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the periods presented.  All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
The results of operations for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results that might be expected for future interim periods or for the full year ending December 31, 2007.
The interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2006.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Advertising revenue is recognized when commercials are aired.  Through 2006, such revenue was recorded in accordance with the broadcast year which ends on the Sunday on or prior to the last day of each quarter, which was December 31, 2006 for the fourth quarter of 2006.  Effective January 1, 2007, advertising revenue is recorded for each quarter based on the calendar year.
6
 
Comprehensive income for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 equals net income for the same periods.
NOTE 3.                CASH FLOWS
For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, the Company considers short-term investments with a maturity at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
During the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company's non-cash investing and financing activities and other supplemental data were as follows:
 
NOTE 4.                RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
On January 1, 2007, Cablevision adopted FASB Interpretation No. ("FIN") 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an interpretation of SFAS No. 109.  This Interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes.  FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of an income tax position taken or expected to be taken in an income tax return.  The adoption of FIN 48 by Cablevision had no impact on the Company's financial statements.
NOTE 5.                RESTRUCTURING
During the three months ended March 31, 2007, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $378 for employee severance.  Payments of the remaining liability at March 31, 2007 of $10 are expected to be made by the end of 2007.
7
 
NOTE 6.                INCOME TAXES
alone basis as if the Company filed separate consolidated income tax returns for the periods presented herein.
The Company is a single-member limited liability company, indirectly wholly-owned by Rainbow Media Enterprises, Inc. ("RME"), a subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings LLC (the Company's indirect parent), a taxable corporation.  RME is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision.  As such, the Company is treated as a division of RME and is included in the consolidated income tax return of Cablevision for federal income tax purposes.  Accordingly, based upon the provisions of SFAS No. 109, the income tax provision is determined on a stand-
state income taxes and non-deductible expenses.
The income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 of $11,079 and $4,191 respectively, differs from the income tax expense derived from applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income due principally to the impact of
Since there is no tax sharing agreement in place between the Company and Cablevision, allocable current income tax liabilities calculated on a separate company basis that the Company does not pay directly have been reflected as deemed capital contributions to the Company from its parent. Such contributions amounted to $9,414 and $6,716 for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
NOTE 7.                INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The following table summarizes information relating to the Company's acquired intangible assets at March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006:
 
8
 
 
 
In the first quarter of 2007, an adjustment of $1,629 was recorded to reduce excess costs over the fair value of net assets acquired that was pushed down to the Company from Rainbow Media Holdings LLC in prior years.  This adjustment to basis was recorded as a deemed capital distribution to Rainbow Media Holdings LLC amounting to $1,064 in addition to the reduction of the related deferred income tax liability of $565.
NOTE 8.                SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company classifies its business interests into two reportable segments: AMC Networks (which includes AMC and WE tv) and IFC.  These reportable segments are strategic business units that are managed separately.  The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment adjusted operating cash flow (defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense or benefit and restructuring charges or credits), a non-GAAP measure.  The Company has presented the components that reconcile adjusted operating cash flow to operating income, an accepted GAAP measure.  Information as to the operations of the Company's business segments is set forth below:
 
Reconciliation (by Segment and in Total) of Adjusted Operating Cash Flow to Operating Income
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment amounts to the Company's consolidated balances is as follows:
 
10
 
Substantially all revenues and assets of the Company's reportable segments are attributed to or located in the United States.
Concentrations of Credit Risk
Financial instruments that may potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables.  Cash is invested in bank time deposits offered by financial institutions that have received the highest rating awarded by Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service.  The Company had three customers that in the aggregate accounted for approximately 36% and 32% of the Company's consolidated net trade receivable balances at March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively, which exposes the Company to a concentration of credit risk.  These customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 39% of the Company's net revenues for each of the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006.
NOTE 10.              LEGAL MATTERS
The Company is subject to various claims in the ordinary course of business.  Although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty and the impact of the final resolution of these matters on the Company's results of operations in a particular subsequent reporting period is not known, management does not believe that the resolution of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company or the ability of the Company to meet its financial obligations as they become due.
11
 
Broadcast Music, Inc. Matter
Broadcast Music, Inc. ("BMI"), an organization that licenses the performance of musical compositions of its members, has alleged that certain of the Company's subsidiaries require a license to exhibit musical compositions in its catalog. BMI agreed to interim fees based on revenues covering certain periods for certain subsidiaries. These matters were submitted to a Federal Rate Court.  The interim fees paid to BMI remain subject to retroactive adjustment until such time as either a final decision is made by the Court or an agreement is reached by the parties.
Accounting Related Investigations
The improper expense recognition matter previously reported by Cablevision has been the subject of investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York.  The SEC is continuing to investigate the improper expense recognition matter and Cablevision's timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements.
Stock Option Related Matters
Cablevision and CSC Holdings announced on August 8, 2006 that, based on a voluntary review of past practices in connection with grants of stock options and stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), they had determined that the grant date and exercise price assigned to a number of their stock option and SAR grants during the 1997-2002 period did not correspond to the actual grant date and the fair market value of Cablevision's common stock on the actual grant date.  The review was conducted with a law firm that was not previously involved with the Cablevision stock option plans.  Cablevision and CSC Holdings have advised the SEC and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York of these matters and each has commenced an investigation.  Cablevision and CSC Holdings have received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York seeking documents related to the stock option issues. Cablevision and CSC Holdings have also received a document request from the SEC relating to its informal investigation into these matters.  Cablevision and CSC Holdings continue to fully cooperate with such government investigations.
NOTE 11.              SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
Affiliation Agreements
On April 30, 2007, Rainbow Media Holdings LLC entered into a purchase agreement with Comcast Corporation for the sale of its subsidiaries which operate two regional television sports programming networks.  Contemporaneously with the execution of the purchase agreement relating to the sale of such networks, subsidiaries of the Company and Comcast Corporation entered into or extended affiliation agreements relating to the carriage of AMC, IFC and WE tv.
Dolan Family Group Transaction
On May 2, 2007, Cablevision entered into a merger agreement with Central Park Holding Company, LLC ("Dolan Family Acquisition Company"), which will be owned by the Dolan Family Group, and Central Park Merger Sub, Inc.  Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, Merger Sub will be merged with and into Cablevision and, as a result, Cablevision will continue as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dolan Family Acquisition Company (the "Proposed Merger").
12
At the effective time of the Proposed Merger, each outstanding share of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock, other than shares owned directly or indirectly by Cablevision or the Dolan Family Group, by any shareholders who are entitled to and who properly exercise appraisal rights under Delaware law, and by the holders of restricted stock issued under Cablevision's employee stock plans, will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive $36.26 in cash, without interest.  The closing of the Proposed Merger is conditioned upon the approval of holders representing a majority of the voting power of the outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock voting together as one class as well as the separate approval of holders representing a majority of the outstanding shares of Class A common stock not owned by members of the Dolan Family Group or the executive officers and directors of Ca blevision and its subsidiaries.
The closing of the Proposed Merger is also conditioned upon the receipt of financing necessary to fund the merger consideration and related fees and expenses and to refinance certain indebtedness of CSC Holdings, Inc. ("CSC Holdings") and the Company.  The Dolan Family Group delivered to Cablevision a commitment letter (the "Commitment Letter") from Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation, Bear Stearns & Co. Inc. and Bank of America N.A., together, in each case, with certain affiliated entities covering approximately $15,455,000 of debt financing.  The Commitment Letter contemplates the following:
Cablevision will form a new subsidiary ("Super Holdco") to which it will transfer all of the common stock of CSC Holdings.  Super Holdco will also assume all of Cablevision's obligations on its outstanding senior notes and debentures.
1.
              
Super Holdco will form a new subsidiary ("Intermediate Holdco") to which it will transfer all the common stock of CSC Holdings.  Intermediate Holdco will assume all of Super Holdco's obligations on the outstanding senior notes and debentures, which will remain outstanding.
2.
              
Super Holdco is expected to incur an additional $4,425,000 of indebtedness.
3.
              
Intermediate Holdco is expected to incur an additional $800,000 of indebtedness.
4.
              
CSC Holdings will enter into a credit facility in replacement of its existing credit facility.  This new credit facility, which is expected to be in the amount of $7,250,000 (including a $1,000,000 revolving credit facility) will be used in part to repay borrowings under CSC Holdings' existing credit facility.
5.
              
The Company will enter into a credit facility in replacement of its existing credit facility.  This new credit facility, which is expected to be in the amount of $1,030,000 (including a $300,000 revolving credit facility), will be used in part to repay borrowings under its existing credit facility.
6.
              
Rainbow Programming Partners ("RPP"), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision and CSC Holdings, will enter into a credit facility which is expected to be in the amount of $950,000 (including a $50,000 revolving credit facility).  RPP, whose principal asset is Madison Square Garden, does not currently have any long-term debt.
7.
              
Rainbow Programming Holdings is expected to incur $1,000,000 of indebtedness.  Rainbow Programming Holdings, which is a holding company for Cablevision's interests in the Company and certain other programming operations, does not currently have any long-term debt.
8.
              
13
Dolan Family Acquisition Company is a newly formed company. Charles F. Dolan and James L. Dolan have entered into a guarantee pursuant to which they will guarantee payment to Cablevision of up to $300,000 of damages to Cablevision resulting from any material breach of the merger agreement by Dolan Family Acquisition Company.
 
14

Exhibit 99.2
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
for the period ended March 31, 2007 is separately furnished by Rainbow National Services LLC and its subsidiaries ("RNS" and collectively with its subsidiaries, the "Company" or "we", "us" or "our").
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
This
This Quarterly Report contains statements that constitute forward looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including disclosures relating to the Proposed Merger (as defined herein), availability under credit facilities, levels of capital expenditures, sources of funds and funding requirements, among others.  Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties and that actual results or developments may differ materially from the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.  Factors that may cause such differences to occur include, but are not limited to:
With respect to the proposed merger ("Proposed Merger") of Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") into an entity owned by the Dolan Family Group in which all of the outstanding shares of Cablevision's common stock, except for shares held by the Dolan Family Group, will be converted into the right to receive $36.26 per share in cash: (1) the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement; (2) the outcome of any legal proceedings that have been or may be instituted against Cablevision and others, including following announcement of the Proposed Merger; (3) the inability to obtain Cablevision shareholder approval or the failure to satisfy other conditions to completion of the Proposed Merger, including the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and the receipt of other regulatory approvals; (4) the failure to obtain the necessary debt financing; (5) risks that the proposed transaction disrupts current plans and operations and the potential difficulties in employee retention as a result of the Proposed Merger; (6) the ability to recognize the benefits of the Proposed Merger; (7) the amount of the costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the Proposed Merger and the actual terms of certain financings that will be obtained for the Proposed Merger; and (8) the impact of the substantial indebtedness incurred to finance the consummation of the Proposed Merger;
                 
the level of our revenues;
                 
the cost of programming and industry conditions;
                 
the regulatory environment in which we operate;
                 
developments in the government investigations and litigation related to past practices of Cablevision and CSC Holdings, Inc. ("CSC Holdings") in connection with grants of stock options and stock appreciation rights;
                 
developments in the government investigations relating to improper expense recognition and the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements;
                 
the outcome of litigation and other proceedings, including the matters described in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements;
                 
general economic conditions in the areas in which we operate;
                 
demand for advertising inventory;
                 
our ability to obtain or produce content for our programming businesses;
                 
the level of our capital expenditures;
                 
the level of our expenses;
                 
future acquisitions and dispositions of assets;
                 
the demand for our programming among cable television system and direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators and telephone companies and our ability to maintain and renew affiliation agreements with cable television system and DBS operators and telephone companies;
                 
1
 
      market demand for new programming services;
other risks and uncertainties inherent in our programming businesses;
                 
financial community and rating agency perceptions of our business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which we operate, and the additional factors described herein.
                 
We disclaim any obligation to update or revise the forward looking statements contained herein, except as otherwise required by applicable federal securities laws.
Overview
We provide television programming principally to cable television system and DBS operators primarily throughout the United States.  We own three nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment programming networks:  AMC, WE tv and IFC.
general economic conditions including capital market conditions, the impact of competition, our ability to manage our businesses effectively, and our relative strength and leverage in the marketplace, both with suppliers and customers.
Our future performance is dependent, to a large extent, on
We earn revenues in two principal ways.  First, we receive affiliate fee payments principally from cable television system and DBS operators.  These revenues are generally on a per subscriber basis and earned under multi-year contracts with those operators referred to as affiliation agreements. The specific affiliate fees we earn vary from operator to operator and also vary among our networks but are generally based upon the number of each operator's subscribers who receive our programming, referred to as "viewing subscribers."  The second principal source of revenues is from advertising.  Under our agreements with cable television system and DBS operators, we have the right to sell a specific amount of national advertising time on our programming networks.  Our advertising revenues are more variable than affiliate fees because most of our advertising is sold on a short-term basis, not under long-term contracts.  Also, our advertising revenues vary based upon the popularity of our programming as measured by rating services.
We seek to grow our revenues by increasing the number of distributors that carry our services and the number of viewing subscribers.  We refer to this as our "penetration."  AMC, which is widely distributed, has less ability to increase its penetration than WE tv and IFC, which are not as widely distributed as AMC, a primarily analog service.  WE tv and IFC, although carried by many of the larger distributors, have higher growth opportunities due to their current penetration levels with cable television system operators.  IFC is currently carried primarily on digital tiers, while WE tv is carried on either analog expanded basic or digital tiers.  Therefore, WE tv and IFC penetration rates may increase if operators are successful in converting their analog subscribers to highly penetrated digital tiers of service. Our revenues may also increase over time through contractual rate increases stipulated in certain of our affiliation agreements.  In
2
negotiating for increased or extended carriage, we may be subject to requests by distributors to make upfront payments in exchange for additional subscribers or extended carriage, which we record as deferred carriage fees and which are amortized as a reduction to revenue over the period of the related subscriber guarantee, or to waive for a specified period or accept lower per subscriber fees if certain additional subscribers are provided. We also may help fund the distributors' efforts to market our channels or we may permit distributors to offer limited promotional periods without payment of subscriber fees. As we continue our efforts to add subscribers, our subscriber revenue may be negatively affected by subscriber acquisition fees (deferred carriage), discounted subscriber fees and other payments; however, we believe that these transactions generate a positive return on investment over the contract period.  We seek to increase our advertising revenues by increasing the number of minutes of national advertising and by increasing rates for such advertising, but ultimately, the level of our advertising revenues is directly related to the overall distribution of our programming, penetration of our services and the popularity (including within desirable demographic groups) of our services as measured by rating services.
Our principal goals are to increase our affiliation fee revenues and our advertising revenues by increasing distribution and penetration of our services.  To do this, we must continue to contract for and produce high-quality, attractive programming.  Our greatest challenge arises from the increasing concentration of subscribers in the hands of a few cable television system and DBS operators because of the disparate bargaining power between us and the largest cable television system and DBS operators.  This increased concentration could adversely affect our ability to increase the penetration of our services or even result in decreased penetration.  In addition, this concentration gives those operators greater leverage in negotiating the pricing and other terms of affiliation agreements.  The Company had three customers that in the aggregate accounted for approximately 36% and 32% of the Company's consolidated net trade receivable balances at March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively, which exposes the Company to a concentration of credit risk.  These customers accounted for approximately 39% of the Company's net revenues for each of the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006.  Moreover, as a result of this concentration, the potential impact of a loss of any one of our major affiliate relationships would have a significant adverse impact on our business.
The Company classifies its business interests into two reportable segments:  AMC Networks (which comprises AMC and WE tv) and IFC.
Cautionary Note Concerning Historical Financial Statements
In addition, our financial information does not necessarily reflect what our results of operations and financial position would have been if we had operated as an entity separate from Cablevision, our indirect parent, during the periods presented herein.
Investors should be aware that we are highly leveraged.  As a result, we incur significant interest charges. 
If the Proposed Merger is consummated, our substantial indebtedness will increase significantly and we will be even more highly leveraged for the foreseeable future.
Impact of Proposed Merger
On May 2, 2007, Cablevision entered into a merger agreement providing for the Proposed Merger.  In the Proposed Merger, each outstanding share of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock, other than shares owned directly or indirectly by Cablevision or the Dolan Family Group, by any shareholders who are entitled to and who properly exercise appraisal rights under Delaware law, and by holders of restricted stock issued under Cablevision's employee stock plans, will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive $36.26 in cash, without interest. Cablevision estimates that the cost of paying the merger consideration and related fees and expenses will be approximately $9,000 million, all of which will come from cash on hand at Cablevision and its subsidiaries and from the proceeds from the incurrence of indebtedness by Cablevision, its subsidiaries, including the Company, and one or more newly-formed holding companies of Cablevision. The closing of the Proposed Merger is conditioned upon the approval of holders representing a majority of the voting power of the outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock voting together as one class as well as the separate approval of holders representing a majority of the outstanding shares of Class A common stock not owned by members of the Dolan Family Group or the executive officers and directors of Cablevision and its subsidiaries.
The closing of the Proposed Merger is also conditioned upon the receipt of financing necessary to fund the merger consideration and related fees and expenses and to refinance certain indebtedness of CSC Holdings and the Company.  The Dolan Family Group delivered to Cablevision a commitment letter (the "Commitment Letter") from Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation, Bear Stearns & Co. Inc. and Bank of America N.A., together, in each case, with certain affiliated entities covering approximately $15,455 million of debt financing.  The Commitment Letter contemplates the following:
Cablevision will form a new subsidiary ("Super Holdco") to which it will transfer all of the common stock of CSC Holdings.  Super Holdco will also assume all of Cablevision's outstanding senior notes and debentures.
1.
              
Super Holdco will form a new subsidiary ("Intermediate Holdco") to which it will transfer all the common stock of CSC Holdings.  Intermediate Holdco will assume all of Super Holdco's obligations on the outstanding senior notes and debentures, which will remain outstanding.
2.
              
Super Holdco is expected to incur an additional $4,425 million of indebtedness.
3.
              
Intermediate Holdco is expected to incur an additional $800 million of indebtedness.
4.
              
 
3
 
CSC Holdings will enter into a credit facility in replacement of its existing credit facility.  This new credit facility, which is expected to be in the amount of $7,250 million (including a $1,000 million revolving credit facility) will be used in part to repay borrowings under CSC Holdings' existing credit facility.
5.
              
The Company will enter into a credit facility in replacement of its existing credit facility.  This new credit facility, which is expected to be in the amount of $1,030 million (including a $300 million revolving credit facility), will be used in part to repay borrowings under its existing credit facility.
6.
              
Rainbow Programming Partners ("RPP"), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision and CSC Holdings, will enter into a credit facility which is expected to be in the amount of $950 million (including a $50 million revolving credit facility).  RPP, whose principal asset is Madison Square Garden, does not currently have any long-term debt.
7.
              
Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC ("RPH") (the Company's direct parent), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision and CSC Holdings, is expected to incur $1,000 million of indebtedness.  RPH, which is a holding company for Cablevision's interests in the Company and certain other programming operations, does not currently have any long-term debt.
8.
              
The increased borrowing costs as a result of the Proposed Merger will materially adversely affect our financial results. We expect that our liquidity will be adversely affected by the Proposed Merger as a result of our reduced borrowing capacity and higher interest costs following the Proposed Merger.  We also anticipate downgrades in the ratings on the long-term debt of the Company.
Our ability to refinance existing indebtedness on the same terms that we could have before the Proposed Merger was announced and incur any new indebtedness on favorable terms, if at all, will be reduced.
Results of Operations
The following table sets forth on a historical basis certain items related to operations as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DATA
 
4
 
Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2007 Versus the Three Months Ended March 31, 2006
for the three months ended March 31, 2007 increased $12.7 million (9%) as compared to revenues for the same period in the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
three months ended March 31, 2007 compared to the prior year at AMC Networks resulted principally from higher units sold.  The decrease at IFC is due to decreased event sponsorship sales related to programming aired on the network.  The increase in affiliate revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2007 compared to the prior year is due to an increase in viewing subscribers and per subscriber rate increases.  Viewing subscribers as of March 31, 2007 compared to the same period in the prior year, increased 6.2% and 7.6% at AMC Networks and IFC, respectively.  Approximately 40% of the AMC Networks viewing subscriber increase relates to the addition of Canadian viewing subscribers for the broadcast of AMC, which launched in September 2006 under its first Canadian affiliate agreement.
The increase in advertising revenue for the
 
The Company believes the WE tv and IFC programming services may benefit from increased distribution, especially on the digital tiers of cable television system operators as digital capacity continues to become available, and increased advertising revenues as cable networks, including ad-supported niche programming networks (such as WE tv), attract a greater advertising market share.  These increases could potentially be offset by lower net effective rates per viewing subscriber for our programming services due to the consolidation of cable television system operators and limited opportunities for increases in distribution for our substantially fully penetrated AMC programming service.  Changes in the viewership ratings of our AMC and WE tv programming services may also significantly affect future advertising revenues.
Our advertising revenue as a percentage of total revenue has increased in the 2007 period as compared to the 2006 period and we expect this trend to continue.
5
include primarily amortization of costs to license programming, including feature films, and programming and production costs.  Depreciation and amortization expense of fixed assets and definite lived intangibles are not included in technical and operating expenses but is presented as a separate operating expense.
Technical and operating expenses
Technical and operating expenses for 2007 increased $2.1 million (5%) compared to 2006.  The increase in technical and operating expense is attributed to the following:
 
The increase in amortization of programming content and series development/original programming costs of $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007 compared to the same period in the prior year is due to higher amortization of programming costs partially offset by a reduction in owned original production cost of $2.3 million due to certain of those costs qualifying for capitalization in 2007.
We expect our programming costs to continue to increase throughout 2007.
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses decreased to 30% for the three months ended March 31, 2007 compared to 31% for the same period in 2006.
There may be significant changes in the level of our expenses from quarter to quarter and/or year to year due to content acquisitions and/or program development activities.  As additional competition for product increases from new programming services and alternate distribution technologies continue to develop in the industry, costs for film and other programming content may increase.
include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs and costs of facilities.  Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $6.3 million (14%) for the three months ended March 31, 2007 as compared to 2006.  As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 24% for the three months ended March 31, 2007 compared to 30% the same period in 2006.  The decrease is attributable to the following:
Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
6
The decrease in selling and marketing costs at AMC Networks of $7.1 million primarily related to the decrease in costs for the marketing and promotion of original programming series premiers in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the first quarter of 2006.  The increase at IFC of $0.7 million is primarily attributable to marketing and promotion associated with the premiere of new original programming during the quarter.  The decrease in other general and administrative costs at AMC Networks is primarily driven by a decrease in legal expenses.  Management fees increased due to increased revenues of AMC Networks in 2007 compared to 2006.  Pursuant to an agreement with CSC Holdings, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision, AMC Networks pays an annual management fee of 3.5% of its revenues to CSC Holdings on a monthly basis.
of $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007 represents severance charges resulting from the elimination of certain staff positions due to the consolidation and reorganization of certain departments.
Restructuring charges
decreased $0.1 million (1%) for the three months ended March 31, 2007 compared to the same period in 2006 due to a net decrease in depreciation expense relating to fixed assets.
Depreciation and amortization
decreased $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007 compared to the same period in the prior year.  The net decrease was attributable to a decrease in interest expense of $2.6 million.  Although bank debt outstanding at March 31, 2007 decreased $71.0 million compared to the same period in 2006 after the refinancing of our credit facility in July 2006, interest expense did not decrease more significantly in 2007 due to higher variable interest rates.  The decrease in interest expense was offset by a decrease in interest income of $1.4 million due to a decrease in cash balances.
Net interest expense
of $11.1 million and $4.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007, and 2006, respectively, resulted primarily from pretax income, the impact of state taxes and non-deductible expenses.
Income tax expense
CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $22.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007 compared to $6.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006.  The 2007 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $70.2 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items and a decrease in net other assets totaling $0.8 million, partially offset by a decrease in cash resulting primarily from new film licensing and original programming agreements totaling $33.9 million and a decrease of $15.0 million in accounts payable and accrued expenses.
The 2006 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $55.7 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items, partially offset by a net decrease in cash resulting primarily from new film licensing and original programming agreements totaling $27.3 million and decreases in cash resulting from a decrease of $17.7 million in accounts payable and accrued expenses and a decrease in net other assets and liabilities totaling $4.7 million.
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2007 was $0.1 million compared to $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006.  The 2007 and 2006 investing activities consisted of capital expenditures.
Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $28.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007 compared to $67.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006.  In 2007 financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $40.8 million, repayment of bank debt of $5.0 million, and principal payments on capital leases of $0.3 million, partially offset by proceeds from bank debt of $18.0 million.  In 2006 financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $65.0 million, repayment of bank debt of $1.5 million, and principal payments on capital leases of $0.5 million.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Overview
The operations of the businesses that are included in our consolidated financial statements collectively have historically generated positive cash flow from operating activities.  However, each of our programming businesses has substantial programming, acquisition and development expenditure requirements.
We generated positive cash from operating activities in 2006 and the first quarter of 2007.  We currently expect our funding requirements for the next twelve months to be met by our cash on hand, cash from operations and available borrowings under our credit facility.  In addition, our cash on hand, plus cash flow from operations, plus proceeds from borrowings available to us, provides the capital required for net funding and investment requirements of other Rainbow programming services that we do not own, including the VOOM HD Networks, Rainbow's regional news networks ("News 12 Networks") and fuse, subject to the applicable covenants and limitations contained in our financing agreements.  During the three months ended March 31,
7
2007, we distributed $40.8 million to Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC, our direct parent, to, among other things, fund other Rainbow programming services, including the VOOM HD Networks, News 12 Networks and fuse.
The following table summarizes our outstanding debt, the present value of capital leases, interest expense and capital expenditures as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2007:
 
Debt Financing Agreements
On July 5, 2006, we entered into an $800 million senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Agreement"), which consists of a $500 million term A loan facility and a $300 million revolving credit facility.  The term A loan facility matures June 30, 2013 and the revolving credit facility matures June 30, 2012.  The Credit Agreement allows us to utilize up to $50 million of the revolving credit facility for letters of credit and up to $5 million for a swing loan.  Further, the Credit Agreement provides for an incremental facility of up to a maximum of $925 million, provided that it be for a minimum amount of $100 million.  If an incremental facility is established, we and the lenders will enter into a supplement to the Credit Agreement with terms and conditions that are no more restrictive than those in the Credit Agreement.  There are no commitments from the lenders to fund the incremental facility.
Outstanding borrowings under the term loan and revolving credit facility at March 31, 2007 were $500 million and $23 million, respectively.  The borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be repaid without penalty at any time. We had $277 million in undrawn revolver commitments at March 31, 2007.   We may use future borrowings under the Credit Agreement to make investments, distributions and other payments permitted under the Credit Agreement and for general corporate purposes.
Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are our direct obligations which are guaranteed jointly and severally by substantially all of our subsidiaries and by Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC.  Such borrowings are secured by the pledge of our stock and the stock of substantially all of our subsidiaries and all of our other assets and the assets of substantially all of our subsidiaries (subject to certain limited exceptions). At March 31, 2007, the interest rate on the term A loan facility and the revolving credit facility was 6.61% and 7.68%, respectively.  The $500 million term A loan is to be repaid in quarterly installments of $6.25 million from March 31, 2008 until December 31, 2010, $12.5 million from March 31, 2011 until December 31, 2012, and $162.5 million on March 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013, the term A loan maturity date.  Any amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility are due at maturity on June 30, 2012.
8
As defined in the Credit Agreement, the financial covenants consist of (i) a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to total interest expense for each quarter of 1.75 to 1, (ii) a maximum cash flow ratio of total indebtedness to annualized operating cash flow of 6.75 to 1.00 through June 30, 2008, decreasing thereafter to 6.25 to 1, and (iii) a maximum senior secured leverage ratio of senior secured debt to annualized operating cash flow of 5.50 to 1.  Additional covenants include restrictions on indebtedness, guarantees, liens, investments, dividends and distributions and transactions with affiliates.
We are obligated to pay fees of 0.375% per annum on any undrawn revolver commitment.
Our notes outstanding consist of $300 million principal amount of 8-3/4% senior notes due September 1, 2012, and $500 million principal amount of 10-3/8% senior subordinated notes due September 1, 2014.  These notes are guaranteed by substantially all of our subsidiaries.
We were in compliance with all of our financial covenants under our credit agreement as of March 31, 2007.
Future access to the debt markets and the cost of any future debt issuances are also influenced by our credit ratings, which are provided by Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") and Standard & Poor's.  Key factors in the assessment of our credit ratings include our free cash flow generating capacity, fiscal strategy, enterprise value and industry risk. On May 2, 2007, Moody's and Standard & Poor's placed all of the Company's ratings on review for possible downgrade and on creditwatch with negative implications, respectively, as a result of the merger agreement with Cablevision and Central Park Holding Company, LLC ("Dolan Family Acquisition Company") (see above). The merger agreement contemplates that substantially all of the consideration in the Proposed Merger would be funded by the incurrence of additional indebtedness, including indebtedness at the Company as well as at Cablevision, CSC Holdings, and certain other Rainbow subsidiaries. The Proposed Merger contemplates the Company will enter into a credit facility in replacement of its existing credit facility. This new credit facility, which is expected to be in the amount of $1,030 million (including a $300 million revolving credit facility), will be used in part to repay borrowings under its existing credit facility. Any future downgrade to our credit ratings by either rating agency could increase the interest rate on future debt issuances and could adversely impact our ability to raise additional funds.
Recent Events
On April 30, 2007, Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, the Company's indirect parent, entered into a purchase agreement with Comcast Corporation for the sale of its subsidiaries which operate two regional television sports programming networks.  Contemporaneously with the execution of the purchase agreement relating to the sale of such networks, subsidiaries of the Company and Comcast Corporation entered into or extended affiliation agreements relating to the carriage of AMC, IFC and WE tv. 
Related Party Transactions
On Octo ber 8, 2006, Cablevision received a proposal from the Dolan Family Group (the "Dolan Family Group Proposal") to acquire, at a purchase price of $27.00 per share in cash, all the outstanding shares of Cablevision's common stock, except for the shares held by the Dolan Family Group.  The Dolan Family Group Proposal contemplated that substantially all of the purchase price would be funded by the incurrence of additional indebtedness by Cablevision, CSC Holdings, the Company and several other subsidiaries of Cablevision.
Cablevision's Board of Directors appointed a special transaction committee (the "Special Transaction Committee") of independent directors, which consisted of Thomas V. Reifenheiser and Vice Admiral John R. Ryan USN (Ret.), to review the proposal.  The Special Transaction Committee retained Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, as its legal counsel, and Lehman Brothers Inc. and Morgan Stanley, as financial advisors. 
On January 12, 2007, the Special Transaction Committee received a letter from Charles F. Dolan and James L. Dolan, on behalf of members of the Dolan Family Group, outlining a revised proposal (the "Revised Proposal") to acquire all of the outstanding shares of the common stock of Cablevision, except for the shares held by the Dolan Family Group, at a purchase price of $30.00 per share in cash.
On January 16, 2007, the Special Transaction Committee delivered a letter to Charles F. Dolan and James L. Dolan, rejecting the Revised Proposal as inadequate.  The Revised Proposal expired on January 17, 2007. 
On May 2, 2007, Cablevision entered into a merger agreement with Dolan Family Acquisition Company, which will be owned by the Dolan Family Group, and Central Park Merger Sub, Inc. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, Merger Sub will be merged with and into Cablevision and, as a result, Cablevision will continue as the surviving corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Dolan Family Acquisition Company. The merger agreement was approved by the Special Transaction Committee. The merger agreement was also approved by the Board of Directors of Cablevision (excluding directors who are members of the Dolan Family Group, who did not participate in the Board's consideration of the matter).  For more information on this matter, see the section captioned "Impact of Proposed Merger" above).
9
 
Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted
  Statement No. 157 will be effective for financial statements issued with fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company has not yet determined the impact that the adoption of Statement No. 157 will have on its financial statements.
In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 157, Fair Value Measurements ("Statement No. 157").  Statement No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.  Under Statement No. 157, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the market in which the reporting entity transacts.  It also clarifies the principle that fair value should be based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.  This Statement applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements.  Accordingly, this Statement does not require any new fair value measurements, however, for some entities, the application of Statement No. 157 could change current practices.
elect, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial instruments and certain other items at fair value.  An entity shall report unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date, and recognize upfront costs and fees related to those items in earnings as incurred.  Statement No. 159 is effective as of January 1, 2008 for the Company.  Early adoption is permitted, but an entity is prohibited from retrospectively applying Statement No. 159, unless it chooses early adoption of Statement No. 157 and Statement No. 159. Statement No. 159 also applies to eligible items existing at January 1, 2008 (or when the date of early adoption occurs).  The Company has not yet determined the impact that the adoption of Statement No. 159 will have on its financial statements.
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 ("Statement No. 159").  Statement No. 159 permits entities to
10


