FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20071109152814.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
November 9, 2007
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
 
CSC HOLDINGS, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
 
1111 Stewart Avenue, Bethpage, New York 11714
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
 
Registrants' telephone number, including area code:
(516) 803-2300
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01   REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
On November 9, 2007, Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries ("RNS"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, Inc., as of September 30, 2007 and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations were furnished to RNS bondholders in accordance with the requirements of the Indenture relating to RNS' and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's $300,000,000 8-3/4% Senior Notes due 2012 and the Indenture relating to RNS' and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's $325,000,000 10-3/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014. The RNS Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the RNS Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and both items are being furnished in this Form 8-K filing.
 
ITEM 9.01
  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Exhibits
(c)
         
 
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of September 30, 2007 and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006
99.1.
           
 
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006
99.2.
           
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NOTE 1.                BUSINESS
 
In July 2004, Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") formed Rainbow National Services LLC (the "Company"). Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC ("Rainbow Programming Holdings"), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision, owns 100% of the membership interests in the Company. The Company is a holding company with no independent operations of its own. Its subsidiaries include entities that principally own nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment services operated as integral parts of Cablevision, including AMC, WE tv and IFC. The Company's condensed consolidated financial statements have been derived from the condensed consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Cablevision and reflect certain assumptions and allocations. The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company could differ from those that might have resulted had the Company been operated autonomously or as an entity independent of Cablevision.
 
NOTE 2.                BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X for interim financial information as required by the Company's indentures even though the Company is not a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements do not include all the information and notes required for complete annual financial statements.
 
The condensed consolidated financial statements as of September 30, 2007 and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 presented herein are unaudited; however, in the opinion of management, such condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the periods presented. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
The results of operations for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results that might be expected for future interim periods or for the full year ending December 31, 2007.
 
The interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Advertising revenue is recognized when commercials are aired. Through 2006, such revenue was recorded in accordance with the broadcast year which ends on the Sunday on or prior to the
last day of each quarter, which was December 31, 2006 for the fourth quarter of 2006. Effective January 1, 2007, advertising revenue is recorded for each quarter based on the calendar year.
 
Comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 equals net income for the respective periods.
 
NOTE 3.                CASH FLOWS
 
For purposes of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, the Company considers short-term investments with a maturity at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
 
During the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, the Company's non-cash investing and financing activities and other supplemental data were as follows:
 
 
In 2007, the Company transferred a capital lease obligation for transponder space of $1,391 to an affiliate which resulted in a decrease in property and equipment, net, of $1,285 and an increase in accounts payable to affiliates of $106.
 
NOTE 4.                RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 
On January 1, 2007, Cablevision adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. ("FIN") 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an interpretation of SFAS No. 109. This Interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of an income tax position taken or expected to be taken in an income tax return. The adoption of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007 by Cablevision had no impact on the Company's financial statements.
NOTE 5.                RESTRUCTURING
 
During the nine months ended September 30, 2007, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $1,508 for employee severance. At September 30, 2007, unpaid balances of approximately $583 are reflected as accounts payable to affiliates, net in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as such restructuring charges were allocated to the Company from Rainbow Media Holdings LLC (the Company's indirect parent).
 
NOTE 6.                INCOME TAXES
 
the income tax provision is determined on a stand-alone basis as if the Company filed separate consolidated income tax returns for the periods presented herein.
The Company is a single-member limited liability company, indirectly wholly-owned by Rainbow Media Enterprises, Inc. ("RME"), a subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings LLC (the Company's indirect parent), a taxable corporation. RME is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision. As such, the Company is treated as a division of RME and is included in the consolidated income tax return of Cablevision for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, based upon the provisions of SFAS No. 109,
 
The income tax expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 of $27,554 and $13,546, respectively, differs from the income tax expense derived from applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income due principally to the impact of state income taxes, non-deductible expenses and, for 2007, tax expense of $1,074 including accrued interest recorded pursuant to FIN 48 and tax expense of $551 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to measure deferred taxes.
 
Interest expense related to income tax liabilities recognized in accordance with the provisions of FIN 48 is included in income tax expense. Interest expense of $147, net of deferred tax benefit of $86, has been recognized in the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and is included in income tax expense in the statement of income.
 
As of January 1, 2007, the Company had no liabilities for uncertain income tax positions. As of September 30, 2007, the Company had a liability of $1,659 for uncertain income tax positions, including accrued interest, which is included in other long-term liabilities.
 
AMC and WE tv are presently under audit by the City of New York with regard to the unincorporated business tax for 2003 through 2005.  IFC is currently being audited by the City of New York with regard to the unincorporated business tax for 2004.  Management does not believe that the resolution of these audits will have a material adverse impact on the financial position of the Company. Changes in the liabilities for uncertain tax positions will be recognized in the interim period in which the positions are effectively settled or there is a change in factual circumstances.
 
Since there is no tax sharing agreement in place between the Company and Cablevision, allocable current income tax liabilities calculated on a separate company basis that the Company does not pay directly have been reflected as deemed capital contributions to the Company from
its parent. Such contributions amounted to $23,652 and $21,004 for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
NOTE 7.                INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
The following table summarizes information relating to the Company's acquired intangible assets at September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006:
 
 
 
In the first quarter of 2007, an adjustment of $1,629 was recorded to reduce excess costs over the fair value of net assets acquired that was pushed down to the Company from Rainbow Media Holdings LLC in prior years. This adjustment to basis was recorded as a deemed capital distribution to Rainbow Media Holdings LLC amounting to $1,064 in addition to the reduction of the related deferred income tax liability of $565.
NOTE 8.                SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
The Company classifies its business interests into two reportable segments: AMC Networks (which includes AMC and WE tv) and IFC. These reportable segments are strategic business units that are managed separately. The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment adjusted operating cash flow (defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense or benefit and restructuring charges or credits), a non-GAAP measure. The Company has presented the components that reconcile adjusted operating cash flow to operating income, an accepted GAAP measure. Information as to the operations of the Company's business segments is set forth below.
 
 
Reconciliation (by Segment and in Total) of Adjusted Operating Cash Flow to Operating Income
 
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment amounts to the Company's consolidated balances is as follows:
 
 
 
Primarily represents intercompany receivables from RNS Parent recorded on the balance sheets of AMC Networks and IFC.
(1)
                
 
Substantially all revenues and assets of the Company's reportable segments are attributed to or located in the United States.
 
Concentrations of Credit Risk
 
Financial instruments that may potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. Cash is invested in money market funds and bank time deposits. The Company's cash investments are placed with money market funds or financial institutions that have received the highest rating awarded by Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service. The Company selects money market funds that predominately invest in marketable, direct obligations issued or guaranteed by the United States government or its agencies, commercial paper, fully collateralized repurchase agreements, certificates of deposit, banker's acceptances and time deposits. The Company had three customers that in the aggregate accounted for approximately 32% of the Company's consolidated net trade receivable balances at September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, which exposes the Company to a concentration of credit risk. These customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 39% of the Company's net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006.
 
NOTE 9.                LEGAL MATTERS
 
The Company is subject to various claims in the ordinary course of business. Although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty and the impact of the final resolution of these matters on the Company's results of operations in a particular subsequent reporting period is not known, management does not believe that the resolution of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company or the ability of the Company to meet its financial obligations as they become due.
 
Broadcast Music, Inc. Matter
 
Broadcast Music, Inc. ("BMI"), an organization that licenses the performance of musical compositions of its members, has alleged that certain of the Company's subsidiaries require a license to exhibit musical compositions in its catalog. BMI agreed to interim fees based on revenues covering certain periods for certain subsidiaries. These matters were submitted to a Federal Rate Court. The interim fees paid to BMI remain subject to retroactive adjustment until such time as either a final decision is made by the Court or an agreement is reached by the parties.
 
Accounting Related Investigations
 
The improper expense recognition matter previously reported by Cablevision has been the subject of investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York. The SEC is continuing to investigate the
improper expense recognition matter and Cablevision's timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements.
 
Stock Option Related Matters
 
Cablevision and CSC Holdings, Inc. ("CSC Holdings") announced on August 8, 2006 that, based on a voluntary review of past practices in connection with grants of stock options and stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), they had determined that the grant date and exercise price assigned to a number of their stock option and SAR grants during the 1997-2002 period did not correspond to the actual grant date and the fair market value of Cablevision's common stock on the actual grant date. The review was conducted with a law firm that was not previously involved with the Cablevision stock option plans. Cablevision and CSC Holdings have advised the SEC and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York of these matters and each has commenced an investigation. Cablevision and CSC Holdings have received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York seeking documents related to the stock option issues. Cablevision and CSC Holdings have also received a document request from the SEC relating to its informal investigation into these matters. Cablevision and CSC Holdings continue to fully cooperate with such government investigations.
 
NOTE 10.              DISCLOSURES ABOUT THE FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
The fair value of the Company's debt instruments are summarized as follows:
 
 
 
In August 2007, the Company redeemed 35% of its senior subordinated notes (see Note 13).
 
Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market information and information about the financial instrument. These estimates are subjective in nature and
involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
 
NOTE 11.              DOLAN FAMILY GROUP TRANSACTION
 
On May 2, 2007, Cablevision entered into a merger agreement with Central Park Holding Company, LLC ("Dolan Family Acquisition Company"), an entity owned by the Dolan Family Group, and Central Park Merger Sub, Inc. The terms of the merger agreement provided that Central Park Merger Sub, Inc. would be merged with and into Cablevision and, as a result, Cablevision would continue as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dolan Family Acquisition Company (the "Proposed Merger").
 
On October 24, 2007, the Proposed Merger was submitted to a vote of Cablevision's shareholders and did not receive Cablevision shareholder approval. Subsequently, the parties terminated the merger agreement pursuant to its terms.
 
NOTE 12.              TRANSACTIONS
 
Affiliation Agreements
 
On April 30, 2007, Rainbow Media Holdings LLC entered into a purchase agreement with Comcast Corporation for the sale of its interests in subsidiaries which operate two regional television sports programming networks. Contemporaneously with the execution of the purchase agreement relating to the sale of such networks, subsidiaries of the Company and Comcast Corporation entered into or extended affiliation agreements relating to the carriage of AMC, IFC and WE tv.
 
NOTE 13.              DEBT
 
In connection with the redemption, the Company recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $19,113, representing primarily the redemption premium and wrote-off the related unamortized deferred financing costs of $2,919.
On July 24, 2007, the Company entered into an equity commitment agreement with its sole member, Rainbow Programming Holdings, pursuant to which Rainbow Programming Holdings agreed to purchase additional membership interests in the Company for an aggregate purchase price of $203,000. The Company used the proceeds of the investment by Rainbow Programming Holdings to redeem $175,000 in aggregate principal amount of its 10-3/8% senior subordinated notes due 2014, representing 35% of the outstanding notes at a redemption price equal to 110.375% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to August 31, 2007, the redemption date.

Exhibit 99.2
 
for the period ended September 30, 2007 is separately furnished by Rainbow National Services LLC and its subsidiaries ("RNS" and collectively with its subsidiaries, the "Company" or "we", "us" or "our").
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
This
 
This Quarterly Report contains statements that constitute forward looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including disclosures relating to availability under credit facilities, levels of capital expenditures, sources of funds and funding requirements, among others. Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties and that actual results or developments may differ materially from the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Factors that may cause such differences to occur include, but are not limited to:
 
the level of our revenues;
 - 
                 
 
the cost of programming and industry conditions;
 - 
                 
 
the regulatory environment in which we operate;
 - 
                 
 
developments in the government investigations and litigation related to past practices of Cablevision and CSC Holdings, Inc. ("CSC Holdings") in connection with grants of stock options and stock appreciation rights;
 - 
                 
 
developments in the government investigations relating to improper expense recognition and the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements;
 - 
                 
 
the outcome of litigation and other proceedings, including the matters described in the notes to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements;
 - 
                 
 
general economic conditions in the areas in which we operate;
 - 
                 
 
demand for advertising inventory;
 - 
                 
 
our ability to obtain or produce content for our programming businesses;
 - 
                 
 
the level of our capital expenditures;
 - 
                 
 
the level of our expenses;
 - 
                 
 
future acquisitions and dispositions of assets;
 - 
                 
 
the demand for our programming among cable television system and direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators and telephone companies and our ability to maintain and renew affiliation agreements with cable television system and DBS operators and telephone companies;
 - 
                 
market demand for new programming services;
 - 
                 
 
other risks and uncertainties inherent in our programming businesses;
 - 
                 
 
financial community and rating agency perceptions of our business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which we operate, and the additional factors described herein.
 - 
                 
 
We disclaim any obligation to update or revise the forward looking statements contained herein, except as otherwise required by applicable federal securities laws.
 
Overview
 
We provide television programming principally to cable television system and DBS operators primarily throughout the United States. We own three nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment programming networks:  AMC, WE tv and IFC.
 
general economic conditions including the impact of competition, our ability to manage our businesses effectively, and our relative strength and leverage in the marketplace, both with suppliers and customers.
Our future performance is dependent, to a large extent, on
 
We earn revenues in two principal ways. First, we receive affiliate fee payments principally from cable television system and DBS operators. These revenues are generally on a per subscriber basis and earned under multi-year contracts with those operators referred to as affiliation agreements. The specific affiliate fee revenues we earn vary from operator to operator and also vary among our networks, but are generally based upon the number of each operator's subscribers who receive our programming, referred to as "viewing subscribers."  The second principal source of revenues is from advertising. Under our agreements with cable television system and DBS operators we have the right to sell a specific amount of national advertising time on our programming networks. Our advertising revenues are more variable than affiliate fee revenues because most of our advertising is sold on a short-term basis, not under long-term contracts. Also, our advertising revenues vary based upon the popularity of our programming as measured by rating services.
,
 
We seek to grow our revenues by increasing the number of operators that carry our services and the number of viewing subscribers. We refer to this as our "penetration."  AMC, which is widely distributed, has less ability to increase its penetration than WE tv and IFC, which are not as widely distributed as AMC, a primarily analog service. WE tv and IFC, although carried by many of the larger operators, have higher growth opportunities due to their current penetration levels with cable television system operators. IFC is currently carried primarily on digital tiers, while WE tv is carried on either analog expanded basic or digital tiers. Therefore, WE tv and IFC penetration rates may increase if operators are successful in converting their analog subscribers to highly penetrated digital tiers of service. Our revenues may also increase over time through contractual rate increases stipulated in certain of our affiliation agreements. In negotiating for increased or extended carriage, we may be subject to requests by operators to make upfront payments in exchange for additional subscribers or extended carriage, which we record as deferred carriage fees and which are amortized as a reduction to revenue over the period of the related subscriber guarantee, or to waive for a specified period or accept lower per
subscriber fees if certain additional subscribers are provided. We also may help fund the operators' efforts to market our channels or we may permit operators to offer limited promotional periods without payment of subscriber fees. As we continue our efforts to add subscribers, our subscriber revenue may be negatively affected by subscriber acquisition fees (deferred carriage), discounted subscriber fees and other payments; however, we believe that these transactions generate a positive return on investment over the contract period. We seek to increase our advertising revenues by increasing the number of minutes of national advertising and by increasing rates for such advertising, but ultimately, the level of our advertising revenues is directly related to the overall distribution of our programming, penetration of our services and the popularity (including within desirable demographic groups) of our services as measured by rating services.
 
Moreover, as a result of this concentration, the potential impact of a loss of any one of our major affiliate relationships would have a significant adverse impact on our business.
These customers accounted for approximately 39% of the Company's net revenues for each of the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006.
Our principal goals are to increase our affiliation fee revenues and our advertising revenues by increasing distribution and penetration of our services. To do this, we must continue to contract for and produce high-quality, attractive programming. Our greatest challenge arises from the increasing concentration of subscribers in the hands of a few cable television system and DBS operators, creating disparate bargaining power between us and the largest cable television system and DBS operators. This increased concentration could adversely affect our ability to increase the penetration of our services or even result in decreased penetration. In addition, this concentration gives those operators greater leverage in negotiating the pricing and other terms of affiliation agreements. The Company had three customers that in the aggregate accounted for approximately 32% of the Company's consolidated net trade receivable balances at September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, which exposes the Company to a concentration of credit risk.
 
The Company classifies its business interests into two reportable segments:  AMC Networks (which comprises AMC and WE tv) and IFC.
 
Cautionary Note Concerning Historical Financial Statements
 
Our financial information does not necessarily reflect what our results of operations and financial position would have been if we had operated as an entity separate from Cablevision, our indirect parent, during the periods presented herein.
Results of Operations
 
The following table sets forth on a historical basis certain items related to operations as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DATA
 
Comparison of the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2007 Versus the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2006
 
for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 increased $19.9 million (14%) and $47.7 million (11%) respectively, as compared to revenues for the same periods in the prior year. The net increases are attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
 
 
 
three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 compared to the same periods in the prior year at AMC Networks resulted principally from higher pricing and units sold and at IFC is due to increased event sponsorship sales related to programming aired on the network. The increase in affiliate fee revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 compared to the same periods in the prior year is due to an increase in viewing subscribers and per subscriber rate increases. Viewing subscribers as of September 30, 2007 compared to the same period in the prior year, increased 4.6% and 8.9% at AMC Networks and IFC, respectively.
The increase in advertising revenue for the
 
 
The Company believes the WE tv and IFC programming services may benefit from increased distribution, especially on the digital tiers of cable television system operators as digital capacity continues to become available, and increased advertising revenues as cable networks, including
ad-supported niche programming networks (such as WE tv), attract a greater advertising market share. These increases could potentially be offset by lower net effective rates per viewing subscriber for our programming services due to the consolidation of cable television system operators and limited opportunities for increases in distribution in the United States for our substantially fully penetrated AMC programming service. Changes in the viewership ratings of our AMC and WE tv programming services may also significantly affect future advertising revenues.
 
Our advertising revenue as a percentage of total revenue has increased in the 2007 period as compared to the 2006 period and we expect this trend to continue.
 
include primarily amortization of costs to license programming, including feature films, and programming and production costs. Depreciation and amortization expense of fixed assets and amortizable intangibles is not included in technical and operating expenses but is presented as a separate operating expense.
Technical and operating expenses
 
Technical and operating expenses for 2007 increased $3.8 million (9%) and $3.7 million (3%) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2006. The increases in technical and operating expense are attributed to the following:
 
 
The increase in amortization of programming content and in series development/original programming expenses of $2.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2007 compared to the same period in the prior year is due primarily to an increase in amortization of programming content and in series development expenses of $7.1 million, partially offset by a reduction in owned original programming expenses of $4.7 million due to such expenses qualifying for capitalization in 2007.
 
The increase in amortization of programming content and in series development/original programming expenses of $0.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 compared to the same period in the prior year is due primarily to an increase in amortization of programming content and in series development expenses of $11.3 million, partially offset by a reduction in owned original programming expenses of $10.7 million due to such expenses qualifying for capitalization in 2007.
 
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses decreased to 27% and 28% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007, respectively, compared to 28% and 30% for the same periods in 2006.
 
There may be significant changes in the level of our expenses from quarter to quarter and/or year to year due to content acquisitions and/or program development activities. As additional competition for product increases from new programming services and alternate distribution technologies continue to develop in the industry, expenses for film and other programming content may increase.
 
include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative expenses and costs of facilities. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $6.7 million (18%) and $1.0 million (1%) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007, as compared to the same period in 2006. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 26% for the three months ended September 30, 2007 compared to 25% for the same period in the prior year and decreased to 27% for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 compared to 29% for the same period in 2006. The increases are attributable to the following:
Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
 
The increase in selling and marketing expenses at AMC Networks of $6.2 million primarily related to an increase in expenses for the marketing and promotion of original programming series premieres in the third quarter of 2007 compared to the third quarter of 2006. The increase at IFC of $0.3 million is primarily attributable to an increase in marketing and promotion expenses associated with the premiere of new original programming during the quarter. Management fees increased due to increased revenues of AMC Networks in 2007 compared to 2006. Pursuant to an agreement with CSC Holdings, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision, AMC Networks pays an annual management fee of 3.5% of its revenues to CSC Holdings on a monthly basis.
 
The increase in selling and marketing expenses at IFC of $0.5 million is primarily attributable to marketing and promotion of the network for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease in other general and administrative expenses at AMC Networks is primarily driven by a decrease in legal expenses. Management fees of 3.5% of revenue increased due to increased revenues at AMC Networks in 2007 compared to 2006.
 
of $0.6 million and $1.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007, respectively, represents severance charges resulting from the elimination of certain staff positions due to the consolidation and reorganization of certain departments.
Restructuring charges
 
decreased $0.7 million (4%) and $1.5 million (3%) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2006 due to a net decrease in depreciation expense relating to fixed assets and a decrease in amortization of intangible assets due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in the first quarter of 2007.
Depreciation and amortization
 
decreased $2.4 million and $5.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year. The net decrease was attributable to a decrease in interest expense of $2.6 million and $8.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year. The decreased interest expense resulted from the redemption of $175.0 million of senior subordinated notes on August 31, 2007 and lower average outstanding bank debt. Although bank debt outstanding at September 30, 2007 decreased $92.5 million compared to the period in 2006 immediately prior to the refinancing of our credit facility in July 2006, interest expense did not decrease more significantly in 2007 due to higher variable interest rates. The decrease in interest expense was offset by a decrease in interest income of $0.2 million and $2.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year, due to a decrease in cash balances.
Net interest expense
 
of $2.9 million and $6.1 million in the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, represents $2.9 million of costs written off in connection with the partial redemption of our senior subordinated notes in August 2007 (see Recent Events below) and $6.1 million of costs written off in connection with the refinancing of our August 2004 credit agreement in July 2006.
Write-off of deferred financing costs
of $19.1 million in the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2007 represents the excess of the redemption price over the carrying value of the $175.0 million principal amount of our senior subordinated notes redeemed August 2007 (see Recent Events below).
Loss on extinguishment of debt
 
of $5.2 million and $27.6 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007, respectively, resulted primarily from pretax income, the impact of state taxes, non-deductible expenses, and for the nine months tax expense of $1.1 million, including accrued interest, recorded pursuant to FIN 48 and tax expense of $0.6 million for the impact of a change in the state rate used to measure deferred taxes. Income tax expense of $6.2 million and $13.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006, respectively, resulted primarily from pretax income, the impact of state taxes and non-deductible expenses.
Income tax expense
 
CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
 
Operating Activities
 
resulting primarily from the purchase of licenses of feature film inventory and original programming totaling $118.0 million, an increase in accounts receivable, trade of $10.8 million due primarily to an increase in affiliate fee trade receivables, deferred carriage fee payments of $28.5 million, and a decrease in accrued interest of $26.3 million due to the timing of interest payments on our senior and senior subordinated notes.
a decrease in cash
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $77.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 compared to $74.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006. The 2007 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $220.2 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items, an increase in accounts payable to affiliates, net of $30.0 million and a decrease in net other assets totaling $10.7 million, partially offset by
 
change in other assets and liabilities totaling $15.3 million.
partially offset by an increase in cash resulting from a net
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $74.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006. The 2006 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $173.0 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items and a decrease in cash resulting from the purchase of feature film inventory and original programming licenses totaling $90.8 million and deferred carriage fee payments of $23.3 million,
 
Investing Activities
 
Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 was $3.2 million and $3.1 million, respectively. The 2007 and 2006 investing activities consisted of capital expenditures. Capital expenditures in 2007 were primarily for the purchase of technical equipment for the future transmission of our networks in high-definition. Capital expenditures in 2006 related primarily to the purchase of technical equipment for cable television systems and DBS operators to migrate to and receive a digital feed from an analog feed for the transmission of our networks.
Financing Activities
 
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $75.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 compared to $199.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006. In 2007, financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $74.8 million, $193.2 million for the partial redemption of $175.0 million of our senior subordinated notes including a redemption premium of $18.2 million (see Recent Events below), repayment of bank debt of $33.0 million, and principal payments on capital leases of $0.5 million, partially offset by proceeds from bank debt of $23.0 million and a cash contribution from our parent of $203.0 million (see Recent Events below).
 
In 2006, financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $135.0 million, repayment of bank debt of $595.5 million from our previous credit facility, partially offset by the proceeds from borrowings under our July 2006 credit facility (see Debt Financing Agreements below) of $538.0 million, the payment of deferred financing costs associated with our July 2006 credit facility of $5.4 million, and principal payments on capital leases of $1.5 million.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
Overview
 
The operations of the businesses that are included in our consolidated financial statements collectively have historically generated positive cash flow from operating activities. However, each of our programming businesses has substantial programming, acquisition and development expenditure requirements.
 
We generated positive cash from operating activities in 2006 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2007. We currently expect our funding requirements for the next twelve months to be met by our cash on hand, cash from operations and available borrowings under our credit facility. In addition, our cash on hand, plus cash flow from operations, plus proceeds from borrowings available to us, provides the capital required for net funding and investment requirements of other Rainbow programming services that we do not own, including the VOOM HD Networks, Rainbow's regional news networks ("News 12 Networks") and fuse, subject to the applicable covenants and limitations contained in our financing agreements.  During the nine months ended September 30, 2007, we distributed $74.8 million to Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC, our direct parent, to, among other things, fund other Rainbow programming services, including the VOOM HD Networks, News 12 Networks and fuse.
 
The following table summarizes our outstanding debt, the present value of capital leases, interest expense and capital expenditures as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2007:
 
Debt Financing Agreements
 
The Company has an $800 million senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Agreement"), which consists of a $500 million term A loan facility and a $300 million revolving credit facility. The term A loan facility matures June 30, 2013 and the revolving credit facility matures June 30, 2012. The Credit Agreement allows us to utilize up to $50 million of the revolving credit facility for letters of credit and up to $5 million for a swing loan. Further, the Credit Agreement provides for an incremental facility of up to a maximum of $925 million, provided that it be for a minimum amount of $100 million. If an incremental facility is established, we and the lenders will enter into a supplement to the Credit Agreement with terms and conditions that are no more restrictive than those in the Credit Agreement. There are no commitments from the lenders to fund the incremental facility.
 
Outstanding borrowings under the term loan at September 30, 2007 were $500 million. There were no borrowings outstanding under the $300 million revolving credit facility at September 30, 2007. The borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be repaid without penalty at any time. We may use future borrowings under the Credit Agreement to make investments, distributions and other payments permitted under the Credit Agreement and for general corporate purposes.
 
Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are our direct obligations which are guaranteed jointly and severally by substantially all of our subsidiaries and by Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC. Such borrowings are secured by the pledge of our stock and the stock of substantially all of our subsidiaries and all of our other assets and the assets of substantially all of our subsidiaries (subject to certain limited exceptions). At September 30, 2007, the interest rate on the term A loan facility was 7.07%. The $500 million term A loan is to be repaid in quarterly installments of $6.25 million from March 31, 2008 until December 31, 2010, $12.5 million from March 31, 2011 until December 31, 2012, and $162.5 million on March 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013, the term A loan maturity date. Any amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility are due at maturity on June 30, 2012.
 
As defined in the Credit Agreement, the financial covenants consist of (i) a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to total interest expense for each quarter of 1.75 to 1, (ii) a maximum cash flow ratio of total indebtedness to annualized operating cash flow of 6.75 to 1.00 through June 30, 2008, decreasing thereafter to 6.25 to 1, and (iii) a maximum senior secured leverage ratio of senior secured debt to annualized operating cash flow of 5.50 to 1. Additional covenants include restrictions on indebtedness, guarantees, liens, investments, dividends and distributions and transactions with affiliates.
 
We are obligated to pay fees of 0.375% per annum on any undrawn revolver commitment.
 
Our notes outstanding consist of $300 million principal amount of 8-3/4% senior notes due September 1, 2012, and $325 million principal amount of 10-3/8% senior subordinated notes due September 1, 2014 following the partial redemption of our senior subordinated notes in August 2007 (see Recent Events below). These notes are guaranteed by substantially all of our subsidiaries.
We were in compliance with all of our financial covenants under our credit agreement as of September 30, 2007.
 
Future access to the debt markets and the cost of any future debt issuances are also influenced by our credit ratings, which are provided by Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") and Standard & Poor's. Key factors in the assessment of our credit ratings include our free cash flow generating capacity, fiscal strategy, enterprise value and industry risk. Our corporate credit rating is B1 by Moody's with a developing outlook and BB by Standard & Poor's with ratings on creditwatch with negative implications. Any future downgrade to our credit ratings by either rating agency could increase the interest rate on future debt issuances and could adversely impact our ability to raise additional funds.
 
Recent Events
 
Affiliation Agreements
 
In June 2007, Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, the Company's indirect parent, completed its sale to Comcast Corporation of its interests in subsidiaries which operate two regional television sports programming networks. Contemporaneously with the execution of the purchase agreement on April 30, 2007 relating to the sale of such networks, subsidiaries of the Company and Comcast Corporation entered into or extended affiliation agreements relating to the carriage of AMC, IFC and WE tv.
 
Partial Redemption of Senior Subordinated Notes
 
On July 24, 2007, the Company entered into an equity commitment agreement with its sole member, RPH, pursuant to which RPH agreed to purchase additional membership interests in the Company for an aggregate purchase price of $203 million. The Company used the proceeds of the investment by RPH to redeem $175 million in aggregate principal amount of its 10-3/8% senior subordinated notes due 2014, representing 35% of the outstanding notes at a redemption price equal to 110.375% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to August 31, 2007, the redemption date. In connection with the redemption, the Company recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $19 million representing primarily the redemption premium and wrote-off the related unamortized deferred financing costs of approximately $3 million.
 
Proposed Dolan Family Group Transaction
 
On May 2, 2007, Cablevision entered into a merger agreement with Central Park Holding Company, LLC ("Dolan Family Acquisition Company"), an entity owned by the Dolan Family Group, and Central Park Merger Sub, Inc. The terms of the merger agreement provided that Central Park Merger Sub, Inc. would be merged with and into Cablevision and, as a result, Cablevision would continue as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dolan Family Acquisition Company (the "Proposed Merger").
 
On October 24, 2007, the Proposed Merger was submitted to a vote of Cablevision's shareholders and did not receive shareholder approval. Subsequently, the parties terminated the merger agreement pursuant to its terms.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted
 
Statement No. 157 will be effective for financial statements issued with fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company has not yet determined the impact that the adoption of Statement No. 157 will have on its financial statements.
In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 157, Fair Value Measurements ("Statement No. 157"). Statement No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Under Statement No. 157, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the market in which the reporting entity transacts. It also clarifies the principle that fair value should be based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. This Statement applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. Accordingly, this Statement does not require any new fair value measurements, however, for some entities, the application of Statement No. 157 could change current practices.
 
elect, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. An entity shall report unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date, and recognize upfront costs and fees related to those items in earnings as incurred. Statement No. 159 is effective as of January 1, 2008 for the Company. Early adoption is permitted, but an entity is prohibited from retrospectively applying Statement No. 159, unless it chooses early adoption of Statement No. 157 and Statement No. 159. Statement No. 159 also applies to eligible items existing at January 1, 2008 (or when the date of early adoption occurs). The Company has not yet determined the impact that the adoption of Statement No. 159 will have on its financial statements.
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities - Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 ("Statement No. 159"). Statement No. 159 permits entities to


