FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20081010165755.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Not Applicable
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01.        Financial Statement and Exhibits
 
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired  (b) Pro Forma Financial Information
 
On July 29, 2008, CSC Holdings, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "Company") and Tribune Company completed a series of transactions contemplated by the Formation Agreement, dated May 11, 2008 ("Formation Agreement"), to form Newsday Holdings LLC and Newsday LLC, new limited liability companies that operate the Company's newspaper publishing business.  The newspaper publishing business ("Newsday Media Group") includes the Newsday daily newspaper which is primarily distributed on Long Island, New York and in the New York metropolitan area.  The Newsday Media Group also includes (i) amNew York, a free daily newspaper distributed in New York City; (ii) Star Community Publishing Group which is the publisher of the Northeast's largest shopper publication, the Pennysaver; (iii) Island Publications which produces targeted lifestyle magazines, selected tourism and business to business publications; and (iv) online websites including Newsday.com and ExploreLI.com.
 
On the closing date, Tribune Company, directly and through its subsidiaries, contributed substantially all of the assets and liabilities of the Newsday Media Group to Newsday LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newsday Holdings, LLC, and CSC Holdings, through its subsidiary NMG Holdings, Inc., contributed approximately $682 million aggregate principal amount of newly-issued 8% senior notes due 2012 of Cablevision with an approximate fair market value of $650 million on the contribution date to Newsday Holdings LLC.  Also, on July 29, 2008, Newsday LLC borrowed $650 million under its new senior secured credit facility and distributed cash of $612 million on behalf of Newsday Holdings LLC to Tribune Company in connection with Tribune's contribution of the net assets of the Newsday Media Group and $18 million for prepaid rent from the proceeds of that financing.  The rema ining $20 million will be used by Newsday LLC for working capital purposes.  In addition, CSC Holdings provided $35 million in additional funds to Newsday LLC to pay certain transaction costs.  As a result of these transactions, CSC Holdings, through its subsidiary NMG Holdings, Inc., owns approximately 97.2% of the equity in Newsday Holdings LLC and Tribune Company, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, owns approximately 2.8% of the equity in Newsday Holdings LLC.
 
The required financial statements and pro forma financial information are included herein as set forth in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, and 99.3 hereto.
 
(d) See the Index to Exhibits on page 3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: October 10, 2008
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Dated: October 10, 2008
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
 
3

EXHIBIT 23.1
 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Nos. 333-86789 and 333-71965) on Forms S-3 and in the Registration Statements (Nos. 333-79485, 333-57924, 033-36282-99, 333-41349-99, 333-57922, 333-134260 and 333-134259) on Forms S-8 of Cablevision Systems Corporation of our report dated July 11, 2008 relating to the financial statements of Newsday Media Group, which appears in the Current Report on combined Form 8-K of Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, Inc. dated October 10, 2008.
 
 
/s/PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chicago, IL
October 10, 2008
 

EXHIBIT 23.2
 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-71965) of CSC Holdings, Inc. of our report dated July 11, 2008 relating to the financial statements of Newsday Media Group, which appears in the Current Report on combined Form 8-K of CSC Holdings, Inc. and Cablevision Systems Corporation dated October 10, 2008.
 
 
/s/PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chicago, IL
October 10, 2008
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
NEWSDAY MEDIA GROUP
 
COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF DECEMBER 30, 2007 AND DECEMBER 31, 2006 AND FOR EACH OF THE THREE FISCAL YEARS IN THE PERIOD ENDED DECEMBER 30, 2007
 
 
To the Management of Tribune Company:
 
In our opinion, the accompanying combined balance sheets and the related combined statements of operations, division equity (deficit) and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Newsday Media Group (the "Company"), a division of Tribune Company, at December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 30, 2007 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
 
/s/PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chicago, IL
July 11, 2008
 
 
NEWSDAY MEDIA GROUP COMBINED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (In thousands of dollars)
 
 
See Notes to Combined Financial Statements.
 
NEWSDAY MEDIA GROUP COMBINED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands of dollars)
 
 
See Notes to Combined Financial Statements.
 
NEWSDAY MEDIA GROUP COMBINED STATEMENTS OF DIVISION EQUITY (DEFICIT) (In thousands of dollars)
 
 
See Notes to Combined Financial Statements.
 
 
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
 
 
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
In 2005 and 2006, the Group settled interest payments payable to a Tribune affiliate totaling $34,981 and $69,962, respectively, through the division equity (deficit) account.  These amounts represent non-cash payments of interest.  In 2007, the Group settled a note payable with an affiliate with a principal balance of $772,000 plus accrued interest of $23,943 through contribution to the division equity (deficit) account.  During 2007 the Group entered into capital leases for the acquisition of fixed assets totaling $699.
 
See Notes to Combined Financial Statements.
 
 
NOTE 1: DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
On May 11, 2008, Tribune Company ("Tribune") signed a Formation Agreement with CSC Holdings Inc. ("CSC"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation, to form a new partnership which will own Newsday Media Group ("NMG" and "Group"), as described further in Note 12.   NMG's operations consist of , a daily newspaper circulated primarily in Nassau and Suffolk counties on Long Island, New York, and in the borough of Queens in New York City; four specialty magazines circulated primarily on Long Island; 181 shopper guides circulated in Nassau and Suffolk counties on Long Island, and in the boroughs of Queens, Brooklyn and Staten Island in New York City; and , a free daily newspaper in New York City. NMG also operates several websites including newsday.com and amny.com.
Business Operations
Newsday
amNY
 
The Group's fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in December. Fiscal years 2007 and 2005 encompassed a 52-week period. Fiscal year 2006 encompassed a 53-week period.
Fiscal Year
 
 NMG's operations are conducted through the following wholly-owned subsidiaries of Tribune:  Newsday, Inc., Star Community Publishing Group, LLC, and Tribune Newspaper Holdings, LLC.  Historically, separate financial statements have not been prepared for NMG.  The accompanying combined financial statements are derived from the historical accounting records of Tribune, and present NMG's combined financial position, results of operations and cash flows as of and for the periods presented as if NMG was a separate entity and as it was historically managed.
Principles of Combination
 
All significant intercompany accounts within NMG have been eliminated.  All significant intercompany transactions between NMG and Tribune and its affiliates have been included within the combined financial statements and are considered to be effectively settled through equity contributions or distributions or through cash payments at the time the transactions were recorded.  Except for promissory notes outstanding in favor of Tribune and affiliates, the accumulated net effect of intercompany transactions between NMG and Tribune and affiliates are included in division equity (deficit).  These intercompany transactions are further described in Note 4.  The total net effect of these intercompany transactions, other than non-cash items such as stock-based compensation, including debt transactions with Tribune and affiliates, are reflected in the combined statements of cash flows as financing activities.
 
The combined financial statements include allocations of expenses relating to NMG from Tribune.  These allocated expenses include allocations of Tribune corporate overhead and centralized services using allocation methods as described further in Note 4. The expense and cost allocations to NMG have been determined on bases that management considers to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided or the benefit received by NMG during the periods presented.  The financial information in these combined financial statements does not include all expenses that would have been incurred had NMG operated as a separate stand-alone entity and accordingly may not reflect NMG's combined results of operations, financial position and cash flows had NMG been a stand-alone entity during the periods presented.
 
NOTE 2: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
The significant accounting policies of NMG, as summarized below, conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and reflect practices appropriate to the Group's businesses.
 
The Group's primary sources of revenue are from the sales of advertising space in published issues of its newspapers, magazines, shopper guides and on interactive websites owned by the Group; distribution of preprinted advertising inserts in its newspapers; and sales of newspapers to distributors and individual subscribers. Publication advertising revenue is recorded, net of agency commissions, when advertisements are published. Website advertising revenue is
Revenue Recognition
 
 
recognized ratably over the contract period or as services are delivered, as appropriate. The Group records rebates throughout the year as a reduction to advertising revenue based upon contract performance.  Proceeds from publication subscriptions are deferred and are included in revenue on a pro-rata basis over the term of the subscriptions.
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Use of Estimates
 
The Group's accounts receivable are primarily due from advertisers and circulation-related accounts. Credit is extended based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition, and generally collateral is not required. The Group maintains an allowance for uncollectible accounts, determined based on historical write-off experience and any known specific collectibility exposures, in addition to allowances for rebates and volume discounts.
Accounts Receivable
 
A summary of the activity with respect to the accounts receivable allowances is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The Group, in the ordinary course of business, enters into trade transactions whereby advertising in a Group publication is exchanged for advertising at an event/venue. Revenue and expenses associated with these trade transactions are generally recorded when the event takes place based upon the more determinable of the fair market value of services rendered or received.  Trade advertising revenues and expenses associated with third parties were $2.4 million, $2.8 million and $3.8 million in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Trade Transactions
 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined on the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") basis for newsprint and on the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") basis for all other inventories.
Inventories
 
Properties
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. The Group capitalizes major property, plant and equipment additions, improvements and replacements, as well as interest incurred during construction of major facilities and equipment. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives: 10 to 40 years for buildings, 7 to 20 years for newspaper printing presses and 3 to 10 years for all other equipment. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance of existing assets are charged to expense as incurred.
 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill and other intangible assets are summarized in Note 9. The Group reviews goodwill and its newspaper masthead for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that either asset may be impaired, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard ("FAS") No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." Under FAS No. 142, the impairment review of goodwill and other intangible assets not subject to amortization must be based on estimated fair values.
 
The Group performs its annual impairment review in the fourth quarter of each year. The estimated fair value of the Group is determined using many critical factors, including operating cash
 
flows, revenue and market growth, market multiples, and discount rates. The estimated fair value of the newspaper masthead is generally calculated based on projected future discounted cash flow analyses. The development of market multiples, operating cash flow projections and discount rates used in these analyses requires the use of assumptions, including assumptions regarding revenue and market growth as well as specific economic factors in the publishing industry. These assumptions reflect the Group's best estimates, but these items involve inherent uncertainties based on market conditions generally outside of the Group's control.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Group recorded a pretax impairment charge of $130 million ($76.7 million after taxes) related to its masthead intangible asset in connection with its annual impairment review under FAS No. 142.  Refer to Note 9 for further details.
 
In the fourth quarters of 2006 and 2005, the Group recorded pretax impairment charges of $275 million ($265 million, after taxes) and $433 million ($420 million, after taxes), respectively, related to goodwill as part of the Group's annual FAS No. 142 impairment reviews.  Refer to Note 9 for further details.
 
In accordance with FAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," the Group evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets to be held and used whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset or asset group may be impaired. The carrying value of a long-lived asset or asset group is considered impaired when the projected future undiscounted cash flows to be generated from the asset or asset group over its remaining depreciable life are less than its current carrying value.
Impairment Review of Long-Lived Assets
 
Retirement benefits are provided to eligible employees of the Group through pension plans sponsored by Tribune.  Under Tribune-sponsored plans, pension benefits are primarily a function of years of service and the level of compensation for a specified number of years, depending on the plan.  It is Tribune's policy to fund the minimum for Tribune-sponsored pension plans as required by ERISA.
Pension Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits
 
Tribune also provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for retired Group employees.  The expected cost of providing these benefits is accrued over the years that the employees render services.  It is Tribune's policy to fund postretirement benefits as claims are incurred.
 
All obligations pursuant to the Tribune-sponsored pension and postretirement plans have historically been an obligation of Tribune. Therefore, the Group accounts for costs associated with these plans as a participant in multi-employer plans in accordance with FAS No. 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions" and FAS No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," respectively, as amended.  FAS No. 87 provides that an employer that participates in a multi-employer defined benefit plan is not required to report a liability beyond the contributions currently due and unpaid to the plan.  Therefore, no assets or liabilities relative to the obligations under these retirement plans have been included in the combined balance sheets.
 
The Group's employees have historically been eligible to participate in Tribune's incentive compensation and stock purchase plans.  In the first quarter of 2006, Tribune adopted FAS No. 123R, "Share-Based Payment," which superseded Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, FAS No. 123 and related interpretations.  FAS No. 123R requires the Group to expense stock-based compensation in its combined statements of operations. Under FAS No. 123R, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date for equity-classified awards and at the end of each reporting period for liability-classified awards based on the estimated fair value of the award.
Stock-Based Compensation
 
Tribune granted stock options to certain employees in 2006 and prior years, and restricted stock units beginning in 2006.  Tribune used the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair
value of each stock option it granted.  The Black-Scholes model included assumptions regarding dividend yields, expected volatility, expected lives and risk-free interest rates. These assumptions reflected Tribune's best estimates, but they involved certain risks, trends and uncertainties, which in some instances were outside of the control of Tribune. As a result, if other assumptions had been used, stock-based compensation could have been materially impacted. Tribune adopted FAS No. 123R utilizing the modified prospective application method and did not restate prior years.
 
Stock-based compensation expense allocated to the Group and included in selling, general and administrative expense in the Group's combined statements of operations was $4.1 million, or $2.4 million net of tax, for 2007, and $0.9 million, or $0.5 million net of tax, for 2006. The expense for 2007 included a charge related to the cash settlement of the Group's outstanding stock-based awards (see discussion below).
 
Prior to the adoption of FAS No. 123R, Tribune accounted for its stock-based compensation plans in accordance with APB No. 25 and related interpretations. Under APB No. 25, no compensation expense was recorded because the exercise price of employee stock options equaled the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant. Under the provisions of APB No. 25, Tribune was not required to recognize compensation expense for its employee stock purchase plan.
 
Under FAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," as amended by FAS No. 148, compensation cost was measured at the grant date based on the estimated fair value of the award and was recognized as compensation expense over the vesting period.
 
Had compensation cost for Tribune's stock-based compensation plans been determined consistent with FAS No. 123 prior to the adoption of FAS No. 123R in 2006, the Group's 2005 net loss would have been increased to the following pro forma amount (in thousands):
 
 
In determining the pro forma compensation expense under the fair value method of FAS No. 123, using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, the following weighted average assumptions were used for general awards and replacement options:
 
 
On June 24, 2005, Tribune accelerated the vesting of certain stock options granted on Feb. 11, 2003 and Feb. 10, 2004, totaling 2.4 million in each year.   On December 16, 2005, Tribune accelerated the vesting of all stock options granted on Feb. 8, 2005, totaling 3.5 million.  No other terms and conditions of the stock option grants were changed.  Of these amounts, stock options totaling 139,000 and 83,000 accelerated on June 24, 2005 and December 16, 2005, respectively, were related to the Group's employees.
 
 
The accelerated vesting of these stock options was one of several actions taken by Tribune in 2004 and 2005 to reduce the stock-based compensation expense that would have otherwise been recorded with the adoption of FAS 123(R).  Tribune reduced the number of stock options granted in 2004 and 2005 by approximately 45%.  Also, beginning in 2004, option grants had 8-year terms, as compared to 10 year terms for grants in previous years, and did not have a replacement option feature.
 
In accordance with APB No. 25 and related interpretations, the acceleration of vesting of these stock options did not require accounting recognition in the Group's income statement. The exercise prices of the 2005, 2004 and 2003 grants were $40.59, $52.05 and $45.90, respectively, and Tribune's closing stock prices on the June 24, 2005 and December 16, 2005 dates of acceleration were $35.64 and $30.80, respectively. The impact of the accelerated vesting was to increase the Group's pro forma stock-based compensation expense by $2.2 million, or $1.3 million net of tax, in 2005.
 
On December 20, 2007, Tribune consummated a merger (the "Merger") with a newly formed Tribune Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the "ESOP") and Tesop Corporation (the "Merger Sub"), a Delaware corporation wholly owned by the ESOP.  Following the Merger, Merger Sub was merged with and into Tribune and Tribune became wholly owned by the ESOP. Pursuant to the merger agreement, Tribune redeemed for cash all outstanding stock awards, each of which vested in full upon completion of the Merger, with positive intrinsic value relative to $34.00 per share.  Accordingly, the Group recorded additional stock-based compensation expense of $1.7 million, or $1.0 million net of taxes, in the fourth quarter of 2007 in connection with the cash settlement of its outstanding stock awards.  All remaining outstanding stock awards under the Tribune Company Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Incentive Plan") as of December 20, 2007 that were not cash settled pursuant to the Merger Agreement were cancelled. Following the Merger, Tribune does not intend to grant any new equity awards under the Incentive Plan.
 
Deferred Income
Deferred income arises in the normal course of business from advance subscription payments for publications and interactive advertising sales. Deferred income is recognized as revenues in the period it is earned.
 
Income Taxes
The Group's operations are included in Tribune's consolidated United States federal and state income tax returns.  For the purpose of these combined financial statements, the Group has computed income taxes as if it were filing separate returns.  Current income taxes payable are settled with Tribune through the division equity (deficit) account.  Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recorded on the Group's balance sheet.
 
Provisions
for federal and state income taxes are calculated on reported pretax losses based on current tax laws and also include, in the current period, the cumulative effect of any changes in tax rates from those used previously in determining deferred tax assets and liabilities. Taxable income reported to the taxing jurisdictions in which the Group operates often differs from pretax earnings because some items of income and expense are recognized in different time periods for income tax purposes. The Group provides deferred taxes on these temporary differences in accordance with FAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." Taxable income also may differ from pretax earnings due to statutory provisions under which specific revenues are exempt from taxation and specific expenses are not allowable as deductions. The Group establishes reserves for income tax when it is more likely than not that one or more of the taxing authorities will challenge and disallow a position taken by the Group in its income tax returns and the resulting liability is estimable. The combined tax provision and related accruals include estimates of the potential taxes and related interest as deemed appropriate. These estimates are reevaluated and adjusted, if appropriate, on a quarterly basis. Although management believes its estimates and judgments are reasonable, the resolutions of the Group's tax issues are unpredictable and could result in tax liabilities that are significantly higher or lower than that which has been provided by the Group.
On Jan. 1, 2007, the Group adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes." FIN 48 addresses the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Under FIN 48, a company may recognize the tax benefit of an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position.  FIN 48 requires the tax benefit recognized in the financial statements to be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement.  FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and disclosure. The adoption of FIN 48 had no effect on the Group's combined financial statements.
 
New Accounting Standards
In September 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements," which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position No. 157-2 which defers the effective date of FAS No. 157 for all nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except those items recognized or disclosed at fair value on an annual or more frequently recurring basis, until one year after the adoption of FAS No. 157. The provisions of FAS No. 157, as amended, are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after Nov. 15, 2007 and interim periods beginning within these fiscal years. Accordingly, the Group adopted FAS No. 157 in the first quarter of 2008.
The adoption did not have a material impact on the combined financial statements.
 
In February 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities".  FAS No. 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value.  Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected will be recognized in earnings at each subsequent reporting date.  The provisions of FAS No. 159 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after Nov. 15, 2007 and interim periods beginning within these fiscal years.  Accordingly, the Group was subject to the provisions of FAS No. 159 in the first quarter of 2008.  The impact of adopting FAS No. 159 did not have a material impact on its combined financial statements.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 141R (revised 2007), "Business Combinations", which addresses, among other items, the recognition and accounting for identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations.  FAS No. 141R also establishes expanded disclosure requirements for business combinations.  FAS No. 141R is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods beginning within these fiscal years.  The Group is currently evaluating the impact of adopting FAS No. 141R on its combined financial statements
.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 160, "Non-controlling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51", which provides accounting and reporting standards for the non-controlling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. It clarifies that an ownership interest in a subsidiary should be reported as a separate component of equity in the consolidated financial statements, requires consolidated net income to be reported at amounts that include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the non-controlling interest and provides for expanded disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. FAS No. 160 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods beginning within these fiscal years;
however, it will affect only those entities that have an outstanding non-controlling interest in one or more subsidiaries or that deconsolidates a subsidiary. The Group is currently evaluating the impact of FAS No. 160 on its combined financial statements.
 
NOTE 3: CHANGES IN OPERATIONS AND NON-OPERATING ITEMS
 
Newsday
Advertiser Settlement Charges
In February 2004, a purported class action lawsuit was filed in New York federal court by certain advertisers of and an affiliate publication, , New York, alleging that they were overcharged for advertising as a result of inflated circulation
Newsday
Hoy
numbers at these two publications. The purported class action also alleges that entities that paid a subsidiary to deliver advertising flyers were overcharged. The Group is vigorously defending this suit. In July 2004, another lawsuit was filed in New York federal court by certain advertisers of alleging damages resulting from inflated circulation numbers as well as federal and state antitrust violations.  On February 11, 2008, this suit was settled with all remaining plaintiffs.
Newsday
Newsday
Newsday
 
On June 17, 2004, Tribune publicly disclosed that it would reduce its reported circulation for both and , New York, for the 12-month period ending September 30, 2003 and the six-month period ending March 31, 2004. The circulation adjustments were the result of a review of reported circulation at and , New York, conducted by Tribune's internal audit staff and the Audit Bureau of Circulations ("ABC"). Subsequent to the June 17, 2004 disclosure, Tribune continued its internal review and found additional misstatements for these time periods, as well as misstatements that impacted the 12-month period ending September 30, 2002. On September 10, 2004, Tribune announced additional revisions to the circulation figures for and , New York, for the 12-month period ending September 30, 2003 and the six-month period ending March 31, 2004.
Newsday
Hoy
Newsday
Hoy
Newsday
Hoy
 
As a result of the misstatements of reported circulation at and , New York, Tribune recorded a total pretax charge of $90 million in 2004 as its estimate of the probable cost to settle with advertisers.  Approximately $84 million of the charge pertained to and the remaining $6 million pertained to , New York. In 2007, the Group recorded a pretax charge of $3 million to increase the accrual based on the Group's revised estimate of the cost to settle with advertisers.  These charges were included in selling, general and administrative expense in the combined statement of operations. The Group continues to evaluate the adequacy of the advertiser settlement accrual on an ongoing basis.
Newsday
Hoy
Newsday,
Hoy
 
A summary of the activity with respect to the advertiser settlement accrual is as follows (in thousands):
Newsday
 
 
On May 30, 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") concluded its inquiry into circulation practices at and , New York. In closing its inquiry, the SEC ordered Tribune to cease and desist from violating statutory provisions related to its record keeping and reporting. No fines or other sanctions were levied against Tribune. Tribune consented to the order without admitting or denying any of the Commission's findings. The SEC acknowledged the prompt internal investigation and remedial acts undertaken by Tribune and the cooperation Tribune afforded the Commission's staff throughout its investigation.
Newsday
Hoy
 
On December 17, 2007, and , New York, reached a non-prosecution agreement with the United States Attorneys' Office for the Eastern District of New York that ended the federal inquiry into the circulation practices of and , New York.  The agreement recognized Newsday's and , New York's, full cooperation with the investigation; the implementation of new practices and procedures to prevent fraudulent circulation practices, the
Newsday
Hoy
Newsday
Hoy
Hoy
payment in restitution to advertisers, and a civil forfeiture payment of $15 million, which may be available for additional restitution.  The $15 million civil forfeiture payment is included as a non-operating expense in the combined statement of operations in 2007. Nine former employees and contractors of and , New York, have pleaded guilty to various criminal charges in connection with the fraudulent circulation practices uncovered by Tribune.  They are awaiting the imposition of sentence.
Newsday
Hoy
 
Employee Reductions
The Group reduced its staffing levels by a total of 50 positions in 2007, 100 in 2006, and 180 in 2005.  A summary of the activity with respect to the Group's severance accrual, including the $4.6 million charge recorded in January 2006 related to the union renegotiation agreements, is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
In addition, in January 2006, the Group renegotiated its agreements with its union employees and paid a one-time cash payment of $14.1 million to employees related to the renegotiation of the Group's agreements with its union employees. Severance costs for all three years and the $14.1 million of one-time employee payments in 2006 are included in selling, general and administrative expense in the accompanying combined statements of operations.
 
Non-Operating Items
Fiscal year 2007 included a non-operating expense of $15 million for the civil forfeiture payment related to discussed above.  Fiscal year 2005 included a non-operating expense of $1.6 million related to the settlement of a dispute with a former distributor of the Group.
Newsday
 
Other Matters
In 2007, the Group terminated a contract with a distributor for $1.3 million as part of streamlining the operations of one of its publications.  This charge has been included in selling, general and administrative expense in the accompanying combined statement of operations.
 
NOTE 4: TRANSACTIONS WITH TRIBUNE AND AFFILIATES
 
The Group participates in a number of corporate-wide programs administered by Tribune.  These include participation in Tribune's centralized treasury function, insurance programs, employee benefit programs, workers compensation programs, and centralized service centers and other corporate functions.  The following is a discussion of the relationship with Tribune, the services provided and how transactions with Tribune and affiliates have been accounted for in the combined financial statements.
Division Equity (Deficit)
Division equity (deficit) in the combined balance sheets includes the accumulated balance of transactions between NMG and Tribune and affiliates, NMG's paid-in- capital, and Tribune's interest in NMG's cumulative retained earnings (deficit). The amounts comprising division equity (deficit) as of December 30, 2007, December 31, 2006 and December 25, 2005 were as follows (in thousands):
 
Net assets allocated consist primarily of the allocation of assets and liabilities recorded by Tribune and affiliates and related to NMG including goodwill, newspaper masthead, and net deferred income taxes.  Net advances to Tribune represent the cumulative NMG funds swept to Tribune (net of funding provided by Tribune to NMG) as part of the centralized cash management programs described further below.  Disbursements, support services provided and other amounts with Tribune and affiliates primarily represent the cumulative outstanding amount for disbursements made on behalf of NMG for the processing of accounts payable and payroll, support services utilized by NMG as further described below, and, to a lesser extent, certain intercompany transactions related to services provided by NMG to Tribune and affiliates (e.g. printing services) or by Tribune and affiliates to NMG (e.g. distribution services).
 
As discussed in Note 7, in June 2007 a Tribune affiliate contributed a promissory note with an outstanding principal balance plus accrued interest totaling $795.9 million to division equity.  In addition, the Group distributed the proceeds from a $200 million promissory demand note from a Tribune affiliate to Tribune as a dividend.  These transactions are included within paid-in-capital in the table above.
The components of the changes in transactions with Tribune and affiliates each year are summarized as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The average outstanding amounts with Tribune and affiliates were $94.1 million, $6.0 million, and $(99.7) million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   No interest income or expense has been allocated to Tribune or NMG related to these balances.
 
Centralized Cash Management
Tribune utilizes a centralized approach to cash management and the financing of its operations.  Under this centralized cash management program, Tribune and NMG advance funds to each other. Accordingly, none of Tribune's cash and cash equivalents have been assigned to NMG in the combined financial statements.  Cash in the combined balance sheets represents either cash not yet swept to Tribune or cash held locally by NMG.
 
Disbursements, Support Services Provided, and Other Amounts with Tribune and Affiliates
The Group received allocated charges from Tribune for certain corporate support services, which are principally recorded within selling, general and administrative expense in the Group's combined statements of operations.  Management believes that the bases used for the allocations are reasonable and reflect the portion of such costs attributed to the Group's operations; however, the amounts may not be representative of the costs necessary for the Group to operate as a separate stand-alone entity.  These costs are summarized in the following table (in thousands):
 
 
The corporate management fee related to support the Group received from Tribune and its affiliates for certain corporate activities including: (i) strategic management, (ii) corporate development, (iii) investor relations, (iv) legal, (v) human resources, (vi) finance and financial reporting, (vii) treasury, and (viii) other Tribune corporate and infrastructure costs.  For these services, the Group was charged a management fee based upon the Group's revenue as a percentage of total Tribune revenue in each fiscal year.
 
The publishing management fee related to the support the Group received from the publishing segment of Tribune.  This included costs for the group office of the publishing segment.  For these services, the Group was charged a management fee based upon the Group's revenue as a percentage of total publishing segment revenue in each fiscal year.
 
Tribune Interactive support costs reflect support provided to the Group for internet related services.  The Tribune Interactive support costs are based on department specific metrics, such as page views, and internet advertising revenue as a percentage of total publishing internet advertising revenue.
Service center support costs related to Tribune service centers, which centrally manage and process (for all Tribune business units) certain (i) financial transactions (e.g. payroll, accounts payable, etc.), (ii) human resources activities (e.g. employee relations, recruitment, etc.), and (iii) technology cost activities (e.g. networks, email, etc.).  Allocations of these support service costs were determined using a proportional cost allocation method based on either number of payments processed, headcount or other volume measures, such as the number of information technology department users.
 
General insurance related to the Group's participation in Tribune-sponsored risk management plans for (i) general liability, (ii) auto liability, and (iii) other insurance such as property and media.  Costs were allocated based on either actuarially determined historical loss experience or, depending upon insurance type, revenue, vehicle count, or headcount.
 
Occupancy costs related to certain facilities owned by Tribune that were utilized by NMG employees and principally relate to a sales office located in New York City, New York.  These costs were charged to the Group based on actual square footage utilized.  Occupancy costs included facility rent, maintenance, security, and other occupancy related costs incurred to manage the properties.
 
Other support costs related to charges to the Group from other Tribune business units for website maintenance costs, audit fees and other support services.  Such costs were allocated using a proportional cost method based on percentage of revenue and headcount.
 
Cost recoveries reflect costs recovered from Tribune and its affiliates for use of the Group's mainframe computer for the use of certain business software operated by the Group.
 
As noted above, Tribune's service centers process substantially all of the Group's disbursements on its behalf.  These disbursements are settled through the division equity account.
 
Medical and Worker's Compensation Benefit Plans
The Group participates in Tribune-sponsored employee benefit plans including medical and worker's compensation.  Allocations of benefit plan costs varied by plan type and were based on actuarial valuations of cost and/or liability, premium amounts and payroll.  Total benefit plan costs allocated to the Group amounted to $13.9 million, $15.2 million and $15.4 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. While management believes the cost allocation methods utilized for the benefit plans were reasonable and reflected the portion of such costs attributed to the Group, the amounts may not be representative of the costs necessary for the Group to operate as a stand-alone entity.
 
Retirement Plans
Annual costs (credits) related to Tribune-sponsored pension plans, which totaled ($1.4) million, $3.1 million, and $7.5 million in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were based upon a specific allocation of actuarially determined service costs plus an allocation of the remaining net periodic pension cost components based upon the Group's proportional share of the pension liability.  In 2006, the pension plan benefits for NMG's employees were frozen.  See also Note 2, "Pension Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits."
 
Tribune also provided certain health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees for which the Group's annual cost totaled $0.2 million in 2007, and $0.3 million in each of 2006 and 2005.  These costs were based upon a specific allocation of actuarially determined service cost and a proportional cost allocation of the remaining expense.
 
While management believes the cost allocation methods utilized for the Tribune-sponsored pension plans, health care and life insurance benefit plans were reasonable and reflected the portion of such costs attributed to the Group, the amounts may not be representative of the costs necessary for the Group to operate as a stand-alone entity.
 
Defined Contribution Plans
Group employees have historically participated in various Tribune
qualified 401(k) savings plans, which permit eligible employees to make voluntary contributions on a pretax basis. The plans allowed participants to invest their savings in various investments.  Amounts
charged to expense by the Group for employer contributions to Tribune 401(k) savings plans totaled $5.9 million, $5.2 million and $3.3 million in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
Tribune Company Management Equity Incentive Plan
Certain of the Group's key employees are eligible to participate in Tribune's 200
7 Management Equity Incentive Plan (the "MEIP"). The MEIP provides for phantom units (the "Units") that generally track the value of a share of Tribune's common stock after the effective date of the Merger (see Note 2 "Stock-Based Compensation" for a discussion of the Merger.)  Awards are made to eligible members of the Group's management and other key employees at the discretion of Tribune's Board. Under the terms of the MEIP, awards are classified as First Tranche Units or Second Tranche Units.
 
The First Tranche Units vest ratably over a three-year period beginning on the date of grant. Unvested First Tranche Units vest upon a change in control of Tribune or upon termination of employment due to death or disability. Unvested First Tranche Units will be cancelled upon a termination of a participant's employment for any reason other than death or disability.
 
Fifty percent of the Second Tranche Units vested upon grant and the remaining fifty percent will vest on the one year anniversary of the grant date. Any unvested Second Tranche Units will become fully vested upon a change in control of Tribune, an involuntary termination of employment or a termination of employment due to a Plan participant's death or disability. Unvested Second Tranche Units will be cancelled upon a termination of a participant's employment for any reason other than an involuntary termination of employment or a termination of employment due to death or disability. Participants receiving Second Tranche Units will be entitled to a gross-up for the payment of excise taxes, if any, in connection with the Merger.
 
As of December 30, 2007, compensation costs related to non-vested awards not yet recognized in the combined statements of operations totaled $3.3 million and had a weighted average remaining service period of two years.
 
In general, one-third of vested Units subject to an award (whether First Tranche Units or Second Tranche Units) will be payable in cash on each of the fourth, sixth and eighth anniversaries of the grant date or, if sooner, upon the occurrence of a change in control or a termination of employment based on the fair market value of Tribune's common stock on the December 31 immediately following the settlement event. With respect to Second Tranche Units only, in the event of a termination of a Plan participant's employment prior to December 20, 2008, such participant will receive his or her pro rata share (based upon the amount of his or her vested Second Tranche Units relative to all Second Tranche Units outstanding and reserved for issuance) of $25 million, payable within ten business days following such termination of employment.
 
The Group accounts for the Units issued under the MEIP as liability-classified awards in accordance with FAS No. 123R (see Note 2 for further information regarding the Group's adoption of FAS No. 123R). The Group recorded $1.2 million of compensation expense in 2007 in connection with the MEIP, which was based on the estimated fair value of Tribune's common stock as of December 30, 2007 as determined by the trustee of Tribune's ESOP.  This expense was recorded in
selling, general and administrative expense in the Group's 2007 combined statement of operations.
 
NOTE 5: INVENTORIES
 
Inventories consisted of the following (in thousands):
 
 
Newsprint inventories valued under the LIFO method were less than current cost by approximately $0.4 million at December 30, 2007 and $1.1 million at December 31, 2006.
 
 
NOTE 6: ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
 
In December 2006, the Group commenced a process to sell the land and building of its facility located in Hicksville, New York.  The estimated fair value, less costs to sell, exceeds the $5.2 million carrying value of the land and building, which is included in assets held for sale, at December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006. The facility is currently idle and will not be included in the transaction contemplated by the Formation Agreement which is further described in Note 12.  The Group expects these assets to be sold in the next year.
 
NOTE 7: DEBT DUE TO AFFILIATES
 
On June 4, 2007, the Group signed a promissory demand note in favor of Tribune Finance LLC for $200 million and distributed the proceeds to Tribune as a dividend.  Tribune Finance LLC is a single-member limited liability company wholly owned by Tribune that was established in 2007 pursuant to a credit agreement for senior secured facilities entered into by Tribune on May 17, 2007 and subsequently amended on June 4, 2007 (collectively, the "Credit Agreement").  Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, Tribune contributed $3 billion to Tribune Finance LLC for the purpose of providing $3 billion of loans to certain of Tribune's subsidiaries including Newsday, Inc., one of the legal entities through which NMG operates.
 
The note is subordinate and junior in right of payment to obligations of Tribune Company.  Interest is payable at the per annum rate equal to the rate applicable to funds contributed to Tribune Finance LLC by Tribune Company and payable on the dates interest is payable by Tribune Company under its Credit Agreement. Interest was accrued at a weighted average annual rate of 8.29% in 2007.  Interest expense on this note is included in the Group's combined statements of operations. Principal may be prepaid in whole or in part at any time and from time to time without premium or penalty.  Principal and accrued interest totaled $200.5 million at December 30 2007. As the promissory note is payable on demand, it has been classified as a current liability.
 
In June 2000, an affiliate of Tribune provided a loan in the form of a promissory note to the Group.  The outstanding obligation related to the promissory note was $772 million and $965 million at December 31, 2006 and December 25, 2005, respectively.  The principal amount was due June 12, 2010.  In June 2007, the Tribune affiliate contributed the outstanding principal balance of $772 million plus accrued interest of $23.9 million (or $795.9 million) to division equity.  In December 2006, the Group made a principal payment of $193 million which was settled through the division equity (deficit) account.  Prior to these settlement transactions, interest was accrued at an average annual rate of 7.25%, payable semi-annually.  Interest expense on this note is included in the Group's combined statements of operations.
 
NOTE 8: CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATIONS
 
The Group had capital lease obligations totaling $1.7 million at December 30, 2007 and $2.8 million at December 31, 2006.  The capital lease obligations relate primarily to the lease of trucks for the transport of publications to markets and customers.  The vehicles associated with the capital leases are recorded within property, plant, and equipment and had a net book value of $1.7 million and $2.5 million (net of accumulated depreciation of $1.5 million and $3.9 million) at December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively.
 
 
The following future minimum payments are to be made in each of the years indicated for the Group's capital lease obligations at December 30, 2007
(in thousands):
 
 
NOTE 9: GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
Goodwill and other intangible assets at December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006 consisted of the following (in thousands):
 
 
 
The changes in the carrying amounts of intangible assets during the years ended December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006 were as follows (in thousands):
 
 
In conjunction with the acquisition of Island Metro Publications, Inc. by the Group in fiscal year 2004, additional consideration of $0.1 million in 2006 and $0.3 million in 2007 was paid to the sellers in accordance with the related purchase and sale agreement.
 
In September 2006, the Group completed its acquisition of the remaining 23% equity interest in for an aggregate purchase price of $7.3 million, comprised of goodwill of $6.6 million and a non-competition agreement asset for $0.7 million. As a result of this transaction, the Group increased their ownership of to 100%.
amNY
amNY
 
In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Group recorded a pretax impairment charge of $130 million ($76.7 million after taxes) related to its newspaper masthead intangible asset in connection with its annual impairment review under FAS No. 142.
 
In the fourth quarters of 2006 and 2005, the Group recorded pretax impairment charges of $275 million ($265 million, after taxes) and $433 million ($420 million, after taxes), respectively, related to the goodwill recorded in conjunction with Tribune's acquisition of Times Mirror Company in June 2000 as part of the Group's annual FAS No. 142 impairment reviews.
 
The above masthead and goodwill impairment charges were due to decreases in actual newspaper advertising revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, and projected advertising revenues as a result of the continued difficult advertising environment.  The Group has experienced declines in its combined operating results during 2007, 2006 and 2005. Adverse changes in expected operating results and/or unfavorable changes in other economic factors used to estimate fair values could result in additional non-cash impairment charges in the future under FAS No. 142. See Note 2 for a description of the Group's accounting policy for measuring impairments of its intangible assets in accordance with FAS No. 142.
 
 
Estimated annual amortization expense will be approximately $1.1 million for each of the next five years, excluding the effects of any acquisitions or dispositions subsequent to December 30, 2007.
 
NOTE 10: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
 
The Group leases certain equipment and office and production space under various operating leases. Net lease expense was $3.8 million in 2007, $4.1 million in 2006 and $5.1 million in 2005. The table below presents the future minimum lease payments to be made under non-cancelable agreements at December 30, 2007 (in thousands):
 
 
The Group had commitments related to non-cancelable contracts for technology maintenance of $0.6 million in 2008, $0.4 million in 2009 and $0.2 million in 2010.  In addition, the Group has commitments under a printing and distribution contract that extends to 2012 where the amounts payable under the contract are based on volume measures for printing and sheet inserts.  Costs incurred under this contract were $12.4 million in 2007, $13.2 million in 2006, and $15.2 million in 2005.
 
The Group and its affiliates are defendants from time to time in actions for matters arising out of their business operations. In addition, the Group is involved from time to time as parties in various regulatory, environmental and other proceedings with governmental authorities and administrative agencies. See Note 3 for a discussion related to the advertiser settlement charges. The Group does not believe that any other matters or proceedings presently pending will have a material adverse effect on its combined financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
Newsday
 
 
NOTE 11: INCOME TAXES
 
NMG's operations are included in Tribune's consolidated United States federal and state income tax returns.  Income taxes in the combined statements of operations have been calculated under the separate return method.  Current income taxes payable or receivable are settled with Tribune through the division equity (deficit) account.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities that are attributable to the Group's operations have been recorded in the combined balance sheets.
 
On March 13, 2008, Tribune filed an election to be treated as a subchapter S Corporation under the Internal Revenue Code, with the election effective as of the beginning of Tribune's 2008 fiscal year.  Tribune also elected to treat certain of its subsidiaries, including the subsidiaries through which NMG operates, as qualified subchapter S subsidiaries.  Subject to certain limitations (such as the built-in gains tax applicable for ten years to gains accrued prior to the election), Tribune and the Group are no longer subject to federal income tax. Although most states in which Tribune and the Group operate recognize the S Corporation status, some impose income taxes at a reduced rate.  As a result of the subchapter S Corporation election, essentially all of NMG's net deferred tax liabilities will be eliminated and such adjustment will be recorded as a reduction in NMG's provision for income taxes in the first quarter of 2008.
 
The following is a reconciliation of income taxes computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate to income taxes reported in the combined statements of operations (in thousands):
 
 
Components of income tax expense (benefit) included in the combined statements of operations were as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
Significant components of the Group's net deferred tax liabilities were as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Operating Loss Carryforwards
At
December 30, 2007, the Group had approximately $155 million of operating loss carryforwards for state income tax purposes. These carryforwards expire between 2019 and 2026.  The deferred tax assets related to these carryforwards totaled $7.8 million, net of federal taxes, at December 30, 2007. However, the Group believes it is more likely than not that $2.6 million of the deferred tax assets will not be realized because the related carryforwards will expire before being utilized. Therefore, in accordance with FAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," the Group has established valuation allowances of $2.6 million on the deferred tax assets related to the state carryforwards. The state operating loss carryforwards increased in 2007 because the Group generated additional tax losses.  Due to Tribune's subchapter S election in March, 2008, the deferred tax assets associated with these operating loss carry forwards were reversed in the first quarter of 2008.
 
NOTE 12: SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
Pursuant to the Formation Agreement described in Note 1, CSC will hold approximately 97% and Tribune will hold approximately 3% of the equity in a partnership that will own NMG. To form the new partnership, Tribune will contribute substantially all of the NMG assets, and CSC will contribute newly issued parent company bonds with a fair market value of $650 million on the contribution date. Lenders have provided a firm commitment to provide $650 million of senior debt financing, guaranteed by CSC, to the new partnership. Of that amount, Tribune will receive $612 million in cash, an equity stake in the partnership valued at $20 million and $18 million in prepaid rent under leases for certain facilities used in the business.  This transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2008.
 
In conjunction with the transaction with CSC, Tribune will retain ownership of the Group's facilities located in Melville, New York as well as the idled facility located in Hicksville, New York (see Note 6).  Incorporated into the Formation Agreement were new lease agreements for the facilities in Melville, New York with an initial term ending in 2018.  The lease costs associated with these properties have not historically been recorded in the combined financial statements as these properties have been included as assets on the historic combined balance sheets and depreciated over their expected useful lives.
 
In addition, upon closing of the transaction with CSC, Tribune will cause the promissory demand note in favor of Tribune Finance LLC (see Note 7) to be settled on NMG's behalf.

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
NEWSDAY MEDIA GROUP
 
CONDENSED COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS OF JUNE 29, 2008 AND DECEMBER 30, 2007 AND FOR THE FIRST HALVES
ENDED JUNE 29, 2008 AND JULY 1, 2007
(Unaudited)
NEWSDAY MEDIA GROUP CONDENSED COMBINED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (In thousands of dollars) (Unaudited)
 
 
NEWSDAY MEDIA GROUP CONDENSED COMBINED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands of dollars) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
 
 
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
During the first half of 2008, the Group entered into capital leases for the acquisition of fixed assets totaling $327.
 
During the first half of 2007, $360 of assets were transferred to the Group in conjunction with the sale of , New York by Tribune.  Also in June 2007, the Group settled a note payable with an affiliate of Tribune with a principal balance of $772,000 plus accrued interest of $23,943 through contributions to the division equity account.
Hoy
 
 
NOTE 1: DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
Business Operations
On May 11, 2008, Tribune Company ("Tribune") signed a Formation Agreement with CSC Holdings Inc. ("CSC"), and NMG Holdings, Inc., each a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation, to form a new limited liability company, Newsday LLC, which will own the business operations of Newsday Media Group ("NMG" and "Group").  This transaction is described further in Note 9.   NMG's operations consist of , a daily newspaper circulated primarily in Nassau and Suffolk counties on Long Island, New York, and in the borough of Queens in New York City; four specialty magazines circulated primarily on Long Island; 181 shopper guides circulated in Nassau and Suffolk counties on Long Island, and in the boroughs of Queens, Brooklyn and Staten Island in New York City; and , a free daily newspaper in New York City. NMG also operates several websites including newsday.com.
Newsday
amNewYork
 
Principles of Combination
NMG's operations are conducted through the following wholly-owned subsidiaries of Tribune: Newsday, Inc., Star Community Publishing Group, LLC, and Tribune Newspaper Holdings, LLC. The accompanying unaudited condensed combined financial statements are derived from the historical accounting records of Tribune, and present NMG's condensed combined financial position, results of operations and cash flows as of and for the periods presented as if NMG was a separate entity and as it was historically managed.
 
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed combined financial statements contain all adjustments necessary for a fair statement of the condensed combined financial position of NMG as of June 29, 2008 and the condensed combined results of its operations and cash flows for the first halves ended June 29, 2008 and July 1, 2007.  All adjustments reflected in the accompanying unaudited condensed combined financial statements are of a normal recurring nature.  NMG's condensed combined results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year.
 
All significant intercompany accounts within NMG have been eliminated.  All significant intercompany transactions between NMG and Tribune and affiliates have been included within the unaudited condensed combined financial statements and are considered to be effectively settled through equity contributions or distributions or through cash payments at the time the transactions were recorded.  Except for promissory notes outstanding in favor of Tribune and affiliates, the accumulated net effect of intercompany transactions between NMG and Tribune and affiliates are included in division equity.  These intercompany transactions are further described in Note 3.  The total net effect of these intercompany transactions, other than non-cash items such as stock-based compensation, including debt transactions with Tribune and affiliates, are reflected in the unaudited condensed combined statement of cash flows as financing activities.
 
The unaudited condensed combined financial statements include allocations of expenses relating to NMG from Tribune.  These allocated expenses include allocations of Tribune corporate overhead and centralized services using allocation methods as described further in Note 3. The expense and cost allocations to NMG have been determined on bases that management considers to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided or the benefit received by NMG during the periods presented.  The financial information in these unaudited condensed combined financial statements does not include all expenses that would have been incurred had NMG operated as a separate stand-alone entity and accordingly may not reflect NMG's combined results of operations, financial position and cash flows had NMG been a stand-alone entity during the periods presented.
 
As of June 29, 2008, the Group's significant accounting policies and estimates, which are detailed in the Group's audited combined financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007, have not changed from December 30, 2007, except for the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("FAS No.157") and FASB Statement No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities" ("FAS No. 159"), both of which were adopted effective December 31, 2007.  The adoption of FAS No. 157 had no impact on the Group's unaudited condensed combined financial statements.  In addition, NMG did not elect the fair value option under FAS No. 159 for any of its financial assets or liabilities.
 
In February 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position No. 157-2 ("FSP No. 157-2") which defers the effective date of FAS No. 157 for all nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except those items recognized or disclosed at fair value on an annual or more frequently recurring basis, until one year after the adoption of FAS No. 157. The Group is currently evaluating the impact of FAS No. 157 on the assets and liabilities within the scope of FSP 157-2, the provisions of which become effective beginning in the Group's first quarter of 2009.
New Accounting Standards
I
n December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 141R (revised 2007), "Business Combinations", which addresses, among other items, the recognition and accounting for identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations.  FAS No. 141R also establishes expanded disclosure requirements for business combinations.  FAS No. 141R is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods beginning within these fiscal years.  The Group is currently evaluating the impact of adopting FAS No. 141R on its combined financial statements
.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 160, "Non-controlling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51", which provides accounting and reporting standards for the non-controlling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. It clarifies that an ownership interest in a subsidiary should be reported as a separate component of equity in the consolidated financial statements, requires consolidated net income to be reported at amounts that include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the non-controlling interest and provides for expanded disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. FAS No. 160 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods beginning within these fiscal years; however, it will affect only those entities that have an outstanding non-controlling interest in one or more subsidiaries or that deconsolidates a subsidiary. The Group is currently evaluating the impact of FAS No. 160 on its combined financial statements.
 
NOTE 2: CHANGES IN OPERATIONS AND NON-OPERATING ITEMS
 
Newsday
Advertiser Settlement Charges
In February 2004, a purported class action lawsuit was filed in New York federal court by certain advertisers of and an affiliate publication, , New York, alleging that they were overcharged for advertising as a result of inflated circulation numbers at these two publications. The purported class action also alleges that entities that paid a subsidiary to deliver advertising flyers were overcharged. The Group is vigorously defending this suit.  In July 2004, another lawsuit was filed in New York federal court by certain advertisers of alleging damages resulting from inflated circulation numbers as well as federal and state antitrust violations.  On February 11, 2008, this suit was settled with all remaining plaintiffs.
Newsday
Hoy
Newsday
Newsday
Newsday
 
On June 17, 2004, Tribune publicly disclosed that it would reduce its reported circulation for both and , New York, for the 12-month period ending September 30, 2003 and the six-month period ending March 31, 2004. The circulation adjustments were the result of a review of reported circulation at and , New York, conducted by Tribune's internal audit staff and the Audit Bureau of Circulations ("ABC"). Subsequent to the June 17, 2004 disclosure, Tribune continued its internal review and found additional misstatements for these time periods, as well as misstatements that impacted the 12-month period ending September 30, 2002. On September 10, 2004, Tribune announced additional revisions to the circulation figures for and , New York, for the 12-month period ending
Newsday
Hoy
Newsday
Hoy
Newsday
Hoy
September 30, 2003 and the six-month period ending March 31, 2004.
 
As a result
of the misstatements of reported circulation at and , New York, Tribune recorded a total pretax charge of $90 million in 2004 as its estimate of the probable cost to settle with advertisers.  Approximately $84 million of the charge pertained to . The remaining $6 million pertained to , New York. The Group continues to evaluate the adequacy of the advertiser settlement accrual on an
Newsday
Hoy
Newsday
Hoy
ongoing basis.
 
A summary of the
activity with respect to the advertiser settlement accrual is as follows (in thousands):
Newsday
 
 
On May 30, 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") concluded its inquiry into circulation practices at and , New York. In closing its inquiry, the SEC ordered Tribune to cease and desist from violating statutory provisions related to its record keeping and reporting. No fines or other sanctions were levied against Tribune. Tribune consented to the order without admitting or denying any of the Commission's findings. The SEC acknowledged the prompt internal investigation and remedial acts undertaken by Tribune and the cooperation Tribune afforded the Commission's staff throughout its investigation.
Newsday
Hoy
On December 17, 2007, and , New York, reached a non-prosecution agreement with the United States Attorneys' Office for the Eastern District of New York that ended the federal inquiry into the circulation practices of and , New York.  The agreement recognized Newsday's and , New York's, full cooperation with the investigation, the implementation of new practices and procedures to prevent fraudulent circulation practices, the payment in restitution to advertisers, and a civil forfeiture payment of $15 million, which may be available for additional restitution.  The $15 million charge recorded in the first half of 2007 is included as a non-operating expense in the unaudited condensed combined statement of operations. Nine former employees and contractors of and , New York, have pleaded guilty to various criminal charges in connection with the fraudulent circulation practices uncovered by Tribune.
Newsday
Hoy
Newsday
Hoy
Hoy
Newsday
Hoy
 
Employee Reductions
The Group reduced its staffing levels by a total of 201
positions in the first half of 2008 and 30 positions in the first half of 2007.  A summary of the activity with respect to the Group's severance accrual, excluding special pension termination benefits discussed below, is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
In the first half of 2008, the Group recorded severance costs of $9.4 million, including $7.4 million related to special pension termination benefits as further discussed in Note 3.
Severance costs for both periods presented and the $7.4 million special termination benefits are included in selling, general and administrative expense in the accompanying unaudited condensed combined statements of operations.
 
Non-Operating Items
The first half of
2007 included non-operating expense of $15 million for the civil forfeiture payment related to discussed above.
Newsday
 
NOTE 3: TRANSACTIONS WITH TRIBUNE AND AFFILIATES
 
The Group participates in a number of corporate-wide programs administered by Tribune.  These include participation in Tribune's centralized treasury function, insurance programs, employee benefit programs, workers compensation programs, and centralized service centers and other corporate functions.  The following is a discussion of the relationship with Tribune, the services provided and how the transactions with Tribune and affiliates have been accounted for in the accompanying unaudited condensed combined financial statements.
 
Division Equity
Division equity in the unaudited condensed combined balance sheets includes the accumulated balance of transactions between NMG and Tribune and affiliates, NMG's paid-in-capital, and Tribune's interest in NMG's cumulative retained earnings (deficit). The amounts comprising division equity as of June 29, 2008 and December 30, 2007 were as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Net assets allocated consist primarily of the allocation of assets and liabilities recorded by Tribune and affiliates and related to NMG including goodwill, newspaper masthead, and net deferred income taxes.  Net advances to Tribune represent the cumulative NMG funds swept to Tribune (net of funding provided by Tribune to NMG) as part of the centralized cash management programs described further below.  Disbursements, support services provided and other amounts with Tribune and affiliates primarily represent the cumulative outstanding amount for disbursements made on behalf of NMG for the processing of accounts payable and payroll, support services utilized by NMG as further described below, and, to a lesser extent, certain
intercompany transactions related to services provided by NMG to Tribune and affiliates (e.g. printing services) or by Tribune and affiliates to NMG (e.g. distribution services).
 
In April 2008, Tribune acquired the Group's facilities located in Melville, New York along with certain other real properties.  These properties were previously leased by Tribune.  Tribune allocated $49.8 million of land and buildings to the Group for these properties which represented the proportional amount of the total purchase price of the properties acquired by Tribune.  The carrying value of these properties on the Group's combined balance sheet at December 30, 2007 was $2.4 million.  The difference between the carrying value of the properties immediately prior to their acquisition by Tribune and the $49.8 million allocated to the Group was settled through division equity and is reflected in net assets allocated from Tribune and affiliates in the table above.
 
The components of the changes in transactions with Tribune and affiliates for the first halves of 2008 and 2007 are summarized as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The average outstanding amounts with Tribune and affiliates during the first half of 2008 and 2007 were $104.6 million and $(1.8) million, respectively.  No interest income or expense has been allocated to Tribune or NMG related to these balances.
 
Centralized Cash Management
Tribune utilizes a centralized approach to cash management and the financing of its operations.  Under this centralized cash management program, Tribune and NMG advance funds to each other. Accordingly, none of Tribune's cash and cash equivalents have been assigned to NMG in the unaudited condensed combined financial statements.  Cash in the unaudited condensed combined balance sheets represents either cash not yet swept to Tribune or cash held locally by NMG.
 
Disbursements, Support Services Provided and Other Amounts with Tribune and Affiliates
The Group received allocated charges from Tribune for certain corporate support services, which are principally recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses in the Group's unaudited condensed combined statements of operations.  Management believes that the bases used for the allocations are reasonable and reflect the portion of such costs attributed to the Group's operations; however, the amounts may not be representative of the costs necessary for the Group to operate as a separate stand-alone entity.  These costs are summarized in the following table (in thousands):
 
 
The corporate management fee related to support the Group received from Tribune and its affiliates for certain corporate activities including: (i) strategic management, (ii) corporate development, (iii) investor relations, (iv) legal, (v) human resources, (vi) finance and financial reporting, (vii) treasury, and (viii) other Tribune corporate and infrastructure costs.  For these services, the Group was charged a management fee based upon the Group's revenue as a percentage of total Tribune revenue for the periods presented.
 
The publishing management fee related to the support the Group received from the publishing segment of Tribune.  This included costs for the group office of the publishing segment.  For these services, the Group was
charged a management fee based upon the Group's revenue as a percentage of total publishing segment revenue for the periods presented.
 
Tribune Interactive support costs reflect support provided to the Group for internet related services.  The Tribune Interactive support costs are based on department specific metrics, such as page views, and internet advertising revenue as a percentage of total publishing internet advertising revenue.
 
Service center support costs related to Tribune service centers, which centrally manage and process (for all Tribune business units) certain (i) financial transactions (e.g. payroll, accounts payable, etc.), (ii) human resources activities (e.g. employee relations, recruitment, etc.), and (iii) technology cost activities (e.g. networks, email, etc.).  Allocations of these support service costs were determined using a proportional cost allocation method based on either number of payments processed, headcount or other volume measures, such as the number of information technology department users.
 
General insurance related to the Group's participation in Tribune-sponsored risk management plans for (i) general liability, (ii) auto liability, and (iii) other insurance such as property and media.  Costs were allocated based on either actuarially determined historical loss experience or, depending upon insurance type, revenue, vehicle count, or headcount.
 
Occupancy costs related to certain facilities owned by Tribune that were utilized by NMG employees and principally relate to a sales office located in New York City, New York.  These costs were charged to the Group based on actual square footage utilized.  Occupancy costs included facility rent, maintenance, security, and other occupancy related costs incurred to manage the properties.
 
Other support costs related to charges to the Group from other Tribune business units for website maintenance costs, audit fees and other support services.  Such costs were allocated using a proportional cost method based on a percentage of revenue and headcount.
 
Cost recoveries reflect costs recovered from Tribune and its affiliates for use of the Group's mainframe computer for processing certain business software operated by the Group.  This mainframe computer will not be included in the transaction contemplated by the Formation Agreement which is further described in Note 9.
 
As noted above, Tribune's service centers process substantially all of the Group's disbursements on its behalf.  These disbursements are settled through the division equity account.
 
Medical and Worker's Compensation Benefit Plans
The Group participated in Tribune-sponsored employee benefit plans including medical and worker's compensation.  Allocations of benefit plan costs varied by plan type and were based on actuarial valuations of cost and/or liability, premium amounts and payroll.  Total benefit plan costs allocated to the Group amounted to $7.0 million in each of the first halves of 2008 and 2007, respectively. While management believes the cost allocation methods utilized for the benefit plans were reasonable and reflected the portion of such costs attributed to the Group, the amounts may not be representative of the costs necessary for the Group to operate as a stand-alone entity.
 
Retirement Plans
Credits related to Tribune-sponsored pension plans, which totaled $1.0 million and $0.7 million in the first halves of 2008 and 2007, respectively, were based upon a specific allocation of actuarially determined service costs, plus an allocation of the remaining net periodic pension cost components based upon the Group's proportional share of the pension liability.  In 2006, the pension plan benefits for NMG's employees were frozen.  As discussed in Note 2, the Group recorded $7.4 million of special pension termination benefits in the first half of 2008 related to the elimination of 172 positions.  In addition, as a result of the transaction contemplated by the Formation Agreement further discussed in Note 9, a $17.1 million pension plan curtailment charge was recorded in the first half of 2008.  These amounts have been recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the Group's unaudited condensed combined statement of operations.
 
Tribune also provided certain health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees for which the Group's costs were based upon a specific allocation of actuarially determined service cost, and a proportional cost allocation of the remaining expense
 
While management believes the cost allocation methods utilized for the Tribune-sponsored pension plans, health care and life insurance benefit plans were reasonable and reflected the portion of such costs attributed to the Group, the amounts may not be representative of the costs necessary for the Group to operate as a stand-alone entity.
Defined Contribution Plans
Group employees have historically participated in various Tribune
qualified 401(k) savings plans, which permit eligible employees to make voluntary contributions on a pretax basis. The plans allowed participants to invest their savings in various investments.  Amounts charged to expense by the Group for employer contributions to Tribune 401(k) savings plans totaled $3.2 million in the first half of 2007.  This plan was replaced by Tribune's Management Equity Incentive Plan in 2008 (see discussion below).
 
Tribune Company Management Equity Incentive Plan
Certain of the Group's key employees are eligible to participate in Tribune's 200
7 Management Equity Incentive Plan (the "MEIP"). The MEIP provides for phantom units (the "Units") that generally track the value of a share of Tribune's common stock. Awards are made to eligible members of the Group's management and other key employees at the discretion of Tribune's Board. Units were initially issued under the MEIP on December 20, 2007, and no additional units have been issued to any of the Group's employees since that date.  Subsequent to June 29, 2008, certain Group executives received change in control payments totaling $1.7 million under the MEIP.  Of this amount, $1.2 million was recognized by the Group in December 2007.  The remaining $0.5 million was charged to selling, general and administrative expenses in the first half of 2008 in the Group's unaudited condensed combined statement of operations.
 
The Group accounts for the Units issued under the MEIP as liability-classified awards in accordance with FAS No. 123R.  As a result, Tribune is required to adjust the MEIP liability to reflect the most recent estimate of the fair value of a share of Tribune's common stock or the amount at which the liability is expected to be settled in accordance with the terms of the MEIP.  The
associated liability is included in division equity at December 30, 2007 and June 29, 2008.
 
NOTE 4: INVENTORIES
 
Inventories consisted of the following (in thousands):
 
 
Newsprint inventories valued under the LIFO method were less than current cost by approximately $1.2 million at June 29, 2008 and $0.4 million at December 30, 2007.
 
NOTE 5: ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
 
In December 2006, the Group commenced a process to sell the land and building of its facility located in Hicksville, New York.  The estimated fair value, less costs to sell, exceeds the $5.2 million carrying value of the land and building, which is included in assets held for sale, at June 29, 2008 and December 30, 2007. This facility is currently idle and will not be included in the transaction contemplated by the Formation Agreement which is further described in Note 9. The Group expects these assets to be sold during the second half of 2008.
 
NOTE 6: DEBT DUE TO AFFILIATES
 
On June 4, 2007, the Group signed a promissory demand note in favor of Tribune Finance LLC for $200 million.  Tribune Finance LLC is a single-member limited liability company wholly owned by Tribune that was established in 2007 pursuant to a credit agreement for senior secured facilities entered into by Tribune on May 17, 2007 and subsequently amended on June 4, 2007 (collectively, the "Credit Agreement").  Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, Tribune contributed $3 billion to Tribune Finance LLC for the purpose of providing $3 billion of loans to certain of Tribune's subsidiaries including NMG.
 
The note is subordinate and junior in right of payment to obligations of Tribune Company.  Interest is payable at the per annum rate equal to the rate applicable to funds contributed to Tribune Finance LLC by
Tribune Company and payable on the dates interest is payable by Tribune Company under its Credit Agreement.  Interest was accrued at a weighted average annual rate of 6.59 % in the first half of 2008.  Interest expense on this note is included in the unaudited condensed combined statements of operations.  Principal may be prepaid in whole or in part at any time and from time to time without premium or penalty.  Principal and accrued interest totaled $200.3 million at June 29, 2008 and $200.5 million at December 30, 2007.  As the promissory note is payable on demand, it has been classified as a current liability.
 
In June 2000, an affiliate of Tribune provided a loan in the form of a promissory note to the Group.  The principal amount was due June 12, 2010.  In June 2007, the Tribune affiliate contributed the outstanding principal balance of $772 million plus accrued interest of $23.9 million (or $795.9 million) to division equity.  Prior to this settlement transaction, interest was accrued at an average annual rate of 7.25%, payable semi-annually.  Interest expense on this note is included in the unaudited condensed combined statements of operations for the first half ended July 1, 2007.
 
NOTE 7: GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
Goodwill and other intangible assets at June 29, 2008 and December 30, 2007 consisted of the following (in thousands):
 
 
As disclosed in the Group's combined financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007, the Group performs its annual impairment review of goodwill and other intangible assets not subject to amortization in the fourth quarter of each year in accordance with FASB Statement No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("FAS No. 142"). Under FAS No. 142, the impairment review of goodwill and other intangible assets not subject to amortization must be based on estimated fair values.  The valuation of intangible assets requires assumptions and estimates of many critical factors, including revenue and market growth, operating cash flows, market multiples, and discount rates.  Adverse changes in expected operating results and/or unfavorable changes in other economic factors used to estimate fair values could result in non-cash impairment charges in the future under FAS No. 142.
 
NOTE 8: INCOME TAXES
 
NMG's operations are included in Tribune's consolidated United States federal and state income tax returns.  Income taxes in the unaudited condensed combined statements of operations have been calculated under the separate return method.  Current income taxes payable or receivable are settled with Tribune through the division equity account.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities that are attributable to the Group's operations have been recorded in the unaudited condensed combined balance sheets.
 
On March 13, 2008, Tribune filed an election to be treated as a subchapter S Corporation under the Internal Revenue Code, with the election effective as of the beginning of Tribune's 2008 fiscal year.  Tribune also elected to treat certain of its subsidiaries, including the subsidiaries through which NMG operates, as qualified subchapter S subsidiaries.  Subject to certain limitations (such as the built-in gains tax applicable for
ten years to gains accrued prior to the election), Tribune and the Group are no longer subject to federal income tax.  Although most states in which Tribune and the Group operate recognize the S Corporation status, some impose income taxes at a reduced rate.  As a result of the subchapter S Corporation election, and in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," the Group has eliminated $148.1 million of net deferred income tax liabilities as of December 31, 2007, and has recorded such adjustment as a reduction in NMG's provision for income taxes in the first half of 2008.
 
In the first half of 2008, income tax expense amounted to a net benefit of $147.8 million and was comprised of the favorable $148.1 million deferred income tax adjustment discussed above and an expense of $0.3 million on the Group's first half 2008 pretax loss.  The effective tax rate on the Group's pretax loss for the first half of 2007 was 27%, and was affected by a certain non-operating expense that was not deductible for tax purposes, which lowered the effective tax rate by 13.5 percentage points.
 
NOTE 9: SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
On July 29, 2008, Tribune consummated the closing of the Formation Agreement as referred to in Note 1.  Under the terms of the Formation Agreement, Tribune, through Newsday, Inc. and other subsidiaries of Tribune, contributed certain assets and related liabilities of NMG to Newsday LLC, and CSC contributed $35 million of cash and newly issued senior notes of Cablevision with a fair market value of $650 million to Newsday LLC.  As a result of these transactions, CSC, through NMG Holdings, Inc., indirectly owns approximately 97% and Tribune indirectly owns approximately 3% of the equity of Newsday LLC, through Newsday Holdings LLC, which wholly owns Newsday LLC.
 
Concurrent with the closing of this transaction, Newsday LLC borrowed $650 million under a new secured credit facility, and Tribune received a special distribution from Newsday LLC in the amount of $612 million in cash and $18 million in prepaid rent under leases for certain facilities used by NMG and located in Melville, New York with an initial term ending in 2018.  Tribune retained ownership of these facilities following the transaction as well as the idled facility located in Hicksville, New York (see Note 5).  Annual lease payments due under the terms of the lease total $1.5 million in each of the first five years of the lease terms and $6 million thereafter.  The lease costs associated with these properties have not historically been recorded in the combined financial statements as these properties have been included as assets on the historic combined balance sheets and depreciated over their expected useful lives.
 
Upon closing of the transaction with CSC, Tribune caused the promissory demand note in favor of Tribune Finance LLC (see Note 6) to be settled on NMG's behalf.

EXHIBIT 99.3
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
CSC HOLDINGS, INC.
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information of Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") and its wholly-owned subsidiary, CSC Holdings, Inc. ("CSC Holdings") (collectively, the "Company") is based on the historical consolidated financial statements of the Company and CSC Holdings and the historical combined financial statements of Newsday Media Group and gives effect to the following acquisition related transactions (collectively, the "Pro Forma Transactions"):
 
The completion of a series of transactions on July 29, 2008 (the "Closing Date") in which the Company received approximately 97.2% of the interests in a newly created limited liability company ("Newsday Holdings LLC") that included the net assets of Newsday Media Group (the "Transaction") that were contributed by Tribune Company ("Tribune");
 - 
     
The issuance and contribution by Cablevision of $682 million aggregate principal amount of 8% senior notes due 2012 with an approximate fair value of $650 million in connection with the Transaction;
 - 
     
Borrowings by Newsday LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newsday Holdings LLC, of $650 million under its new senior secured bank loan ("Bank Loan");
 - 
     
The distribution of $612 million to Tribune in connection with Tribune's contribution of the net assets of the Newsday Media Group and $18 million for prepaid rent from the proceeds of the Bank Loan; and
 - 
     
The payment of all related transaction and financing costs.
 - 
     
 
Cablevision and CSC Holdings are prepared as if the Pro Forma Transactions had been completed on June 30, 2008 (for purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheets) and January 1, 2007 (for purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations), respectively.
The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheets at June 30, 2008, condensed consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 and condensed consolidated statements of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2008 of
 
All significant intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in both sets of condensed consolidated financial statements. The Transaction will result in incremental interest income and related income tax expense at CSC Holdings which will be eliminated at the Cablevision consolidated level.
 As of June 30, 2008, Cablevision had $1.5 billion of senior notes issued in April 2004, cash, deferred financing costs and accrued interest related to its senior notes, certain intercompany payables to CSC Holdings and other subsidiaries, deferred taxes and accrued dividends on its balance sheet. Differences between Cablevision's historical results of operations from those of CSC Holdings primarily include incremental interest expense, interest income and income tax expense or benefit.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of Cablevision include the accounts of Cablevision and its majority-owned subsidiaries and the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of CSC Holdings include the accounts of CSC Holdings and its majority-owned subsidiaries. Cablevision has no operations independent of its CSC Holdings subsidiary, whose operating results and financial position are consolidated into Cablevision. The condensed consolidated balance sheets and condensed statements of operations for Cablevision are essentially identical to the condensed consolidated balance sheets and condensed consolidated statements of operations for CSC Holdings, with the following significant exceptions:
 
The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information was prepared using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, . Accordingly, the estimated cost of the Transaction has been allocated to the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon management's preliminary estimate of their respective fair values as of June 30, 2008 for the 97.2% interest acquired by the Company. The final allocation will be based on a final evaluation of the estimated fair value of the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the Closing Date. Accordingly, the preliminary purchase price allocation reflected herein may differ materially from the final purchase price allocation.
Business Combinations
 
The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information has been prepared based on assumptions deemed appropriate by the Company. The pro forma adjustments and certain significant pro forma assumptions are described in the accompanying notes. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is for
informational purposes only. The pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is unaudited and does not purport to reflect the results of operations or financial position that would have occurred if the Pro Forma Transactions had been consummated on the dates indicated above, nor does it purport to represent the financial position or results of operations of the Company for any future dates or periods.
 
Future results may vary significantly from the information reflected in the unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of operations set forth below due to certain factors beyond the control of the Company, Newsday Holdings LLC and their respective subsidiaries.
 
*  See Note A of Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
* See Note A of Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
*  See Note A of Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
5
 
 
* See Note A of Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
6
 
Note A - Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
* Includes adjustment required to adjust historical working capital as of June 30, 2008 to target working capital required to be contributed by Tribune per the Formation Agreement.
 
 
 
* The intangible assets acquired principally include trade names and trademarks of $125,622 with indefinite lives.  Other identifiable amortizable intangible assets of $61,127 principally include trade names and trademarks (with estimated useful lives ranging from 5 to 10 years) and advertiser and customer relationships (with estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 17 years).
 
 
** See Note B of Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements.
** See Note B of Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
 
** See Note B of Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
** See Note B of Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements.
Note B - Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Six Months Ended June 30, 2008 and for the Year Ended December 31, 2007
 
Represents the unaudited condensed combined statement of operations of Newsday Media Group for the first half ended June 29, 2008 and the audited combined statement of operations of Newsday Media Group for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007.
(12)
 
Represents the elimination of historical revenues recognized between the Company and Newsday Media Group of approximately $2.0 million and $3.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively (see (15)(vi) below).
(13)
Revenues, net.
 
  Represents an estimated allocation of rent expense on certain newly issued operating leases entered into with Tribune (effective as of the Closing Date) of approximately $1.7 million and $3.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively.  The buildings subject to these leases are estimated to be occupied approximately 60% by the printing operations of the business and 40% by administrative employees and, therefore, approximately 60% of the expense is included in technical and operating expense and 40% is included in selling, general and administrative expense (see (15)(ii) below).
(14)
Technical and operating.
 
Represents (i) the reversal of a $3.0 million charge for the year ended December 30, 2007 that was recorded to increase Newsday Media Group's estimate of the costs required to settle a class action lawsuit with certain advertisers (the liability associated with this charge was excluded from the Transaction as outlined in the Formation Agreement) (see (21) below), (ii) an estimated allocation of rent expense on certain newly issued operating leases entered into with Tribune (effective as of the Closing Date) of $1.1 million and $2.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively, (iii) the reversal of a $17.1 million pension curtailment charge associated with pension plan obligations which were excluded from the Transaction as outlined in the Formation Agreement for the six months ended June 30, 2008, (iv) the reversal of $4.7 million relating to incremental compensation expense triggered in connection with the Transaction in the six months ended June 30, 2008, (v) the reversal of certain general and administrative cost allocations from Tribune, net of the incremental cost of providing these services by the Company aggregating approximately $5 million and $11 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively, and (vi) the elimination of historical costs incurred between the Company and Newsday Media Group of approximately $2.0 million and $3.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively (see (13) above).
(15)
Selling, general and administrative. 
 
Represents (i) the reversal of historical depreciation and amortization expense of approximately $9.1 million and $19.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively, offset by (ii) adjustments for depreciation and amortization expense of $11.7 million and $22.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively, as if the Pro Forma Transactions had been completed on January 1, 2007.
(16)
Depreciation and amortization. 
 
Represents the reversal of the write-down Newsday Media Group recognized related to its newspaper masthead intangibles in the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007.  Since this pro forma statement of operations presents information as if the Transaction had occurred on January 1, 2007, the masthead would be recorded at fair value under Statement 141, Business Combinations, negating the need for this historical impairment charge.
(17)
Impairment
of newspaper masthead.
 
Represents (i) the reversal of historical interest expense incurred of $6.6 million and $33.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively, on the balance of Newsday Media Group's outstanding debt due to affiliates that was an excluded liability as of the Closing Date as outlined in the Formation Agreement, (ii) the pro forma incremental increase in interest expense related to the $650 million of bank debt incurred assuming an interest rate of 9.75% on $525 million of fixed rate loans and 7.58% on the remaining $125 million of floating rate loans which amounted to $30.6 million and $61.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively, and (iii) the amortization related to the estimated deferred financing costs associated with the incurrence of bank debt of approximately $1.9 million and $3.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively.  An increase or decrease in the interest rate of 1/4% on the $125 million of floating rate loans would increase or decrease the pro forma adjustment by approximately $0.2 million and $0.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively.
(18)
nterest expense.
I
Represents interest income from (i) the Cablevision senior notes received with a 8.0% interest rate and a $682 million face value which amounted to $27.3 million and $54.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively and (ii) the accretion of the $650 million fair value of the Cablevision senior notes to the $682 million face value over the term of the notes of approximately $3.2 million and $6.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively.  This interest income is eliminated in the condensed consolidated statements of operations of Cablevision.
(19)
Interest income. 
 
  Represents Tribune's approximate 2.8% minority interest in the net income (loss) of Newsday Holdings LLC.
(20)
Minority interest.
 
  Represents the reversal of a $15 million charge recorded by the Newsday Media Group relating to a civil forfeiture payment made to the United States Attorney' Office for the Eastern District of New York that ended a federal inquiry into the circulation practices of the Newsday Media Group.
(21)
Miscellaneous, net.
 
  The pro forma income tax expense adjustments are (i) to reverse the historical income tax expense or benefit reported by the Newsday Media Group and (ii) to record the income tax expense or benefit that would result if the Newsday Media Group was a consolidated Cablevision and CSC Holdings subsidiary for the periods presented using the Company's statutory tax rate.
(22)
Income tax expense.


