FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20081020172205.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
On October 16, 2008, Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "") entered into a new employment agreement (the "") with Michael Huseby, its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The Employment Agreement replaces Mr. Huseby's prior employment agreement that was set to expire on March 1, 2009 and will automatically terminate on October 16, 2010.
Company
Employment Agreement
The Employment Agreement provides for a minimum annual base salary of $950,000, subject to review and potential increase by the Company in its sole discretion. Mr. Huseby is also eligible to participate in the Company's discretionary annual bonus program with an annual target bonus opportunity equal to 90% of salary. Mr. Huseby is also eligible to participate in such equity and other long-term incentive programs that are made available to similarly situated executives at the Company. Mr. Huseby remains eligible for the Company's standard benefits programs at the levels that are made available to similarly situated executives at the Company.
If Mr. Huseby's employment with the Company is terminated prior to October 16, 2010 (i) by the Company (other than for Cause (as defined in the Employment Agreement)) or (ii) by Mr. Huseby for Good Reason (as defined in the Employment Agreement) (other than if Cause then exists) then, subject to Mr. Huseby's execution of a satisfactory severance agreement, the Company has agreed to provide Mr. Huseby with the following:
Mr. Huseby's employment is at will and may be terminated by Mr. Huseby or the Company at any time, with or without notice or reason.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 20, 2008
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 20, 2008

October 16, 2008
Mr. Michael Huseby 3 Windham Court Muttontown, NY 11545   Dear Mike:
This letter will confirm the terms of your continued employment by Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "Company").
Your title continues to be Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and you continue to report to the Chief Executive Officer. You agree to devote substantially all of your business time and attention to the business and affairs of the Company.
Your annual base salary will be a minimum of $950,000, subject to review and potential increase by the Company in its sole discretion. You will also be eligible to participate in our discretionary annual bonus program with an annual target bonus opportunity equal to 90% of salary. Bonus payments are based on actual salary dollars paid during the year and depend on a number of factors including Company, unit and individual performance. However, the decision of whether or not to pay a bonus, and the amount of that bonus, if any, is made by the Company in its sole discretion. Bonuses are typically paid early in the subsequent calendar year. In order to receive a bonus, you must be employed by the Company at the time bonuses are being paid. Your annual base salary and annual bonus target (as each may be increased from time to time in the Company's sole discretion) will not be reduced during the term of this letter.
You will also be eligible to participate in such equity and other long-term incentive programs that are made available to similarly situated executives at the Company. Any such awards would be subject to actual grant to you by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company in its sole discretion, would be pursuant to the applicable plan document and would be subject to terms and conditions established by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion that would be detailed in separate agreements you would receive after any award is actually made.
You will also remain eligible for our standard benefits programs at the levels that are made available to similarly situated executives at the Company. Participation in our benefits programs is subject to meeting the relevant eligibility requirements, payment of the required premiums and the terms of the plans themselves.
Mr. Michael Huseby October 16, 2008 Page 2
If your employment with the Company is terminated prior to the second anniversary of the date first written above (i) by the Company (other than for "Cause") or (ii) by you for "Good Reason" (other than if "Cause" then exists) then, subject to your execution and the effectiveness of a severance agreement to the Company's satisfaction (including, without limitation, non-compete (limited to one year), non-disparagement, non-solicitation, confidentiality, and further cooperation obligations and restrictions on you as well as a general release by you of the Company and its affiliates), the Company will provide you with the following:  
Mr. Michael Huseby October 16, 2008 Page 3
In connection with any termination of your employment, except as specifically provided above, all of your outstanding equity and cash incentive awards shall be treated in accordance with their terms.
For purposes of this letter, "C" means, as determined by the Compensation Committee, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
ause
nolo
contendere
For purposes of this letter, "" means that (1) without your consent, (A) your base salary or annual target bonus (as each may be increased from time to time in the Compensation Committee's sole discretion) is reduced, (B) you are no longer Chief Financial Officer of the Company or (C) you report directly to someone other than the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, President or a Vice Chairman of the Company, (2) you have given the Company written notice, referring specifically to this letter and definition, that you do not consent to such action, (3) the Company has not corrected such action within 30 days of receiving such notice, (4) you voluntarily terminate your employment with the Company within 90 days following the happening of the action described in subsection (1) above.
Good Reason
and
This letter does not constitute a guarantee of employment for any definite period. Your employment is at will and may be terminated by you or the Company at any time, with or without notice or reason.
The Company may withhold from any payment due to you any taxes required to be withheld under any law, rule or regulation. If any payment otherwise due to you hereunder would result in the imposition of the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, the Company will instead pay you either (i) such amount or (ii) the maximum amount that could be paid to you without the imposition of the excise tax, depending on whichever amount results in your receiving the greater amount of after-tax proceeds. In the event that the payments and benefits payable to you would be reduced as provided in the previous sentence, then such reduction will be determined in a manner which has the least economic cost to you and, to the extent the economic cost is equivalent, such payments or benefits will be reduced in the inverse order of when the payments or benefits would have been made to you until the reduction specified is achieved.
If and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this letter, or any plan, award or arrangement of the Company or its affiliates, is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ("Section 409A") and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A under
Mr. Michael Huseby October 16, 2008 Page 4
applicable regulations and (b) if you are a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or, if earlier than the expiration of such six month period, the date of death). Any amount not paid or benefit not provided in respect of the six month period specified in the preceding sentence will be paid to you in a lump sum or provided to you as soon as practicable after the expiration of such six month period.
To the extent you are entitled to any expense reimbursement from the Company that is subject to Section 409A, (i) the amount of any such expenses eligible for reimbursement in one calendar year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other taxable year (except under any lifetime limit applicable to expenses for medical care), (ii) in no event shall any such expense be reimbursed after the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which you incurred such expense, and (iii) in no event shall any right to reimbursement be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
More information regarding your employment is contained in the Company's .
Employee Handbook
This letter is personal to you and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by you otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This letter shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by your legal representatives. This letter shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
To the extent permitted by law, you and the Company waive any and all rights to a jury trial with respect to any matter relating to this letter.
This letter will be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within that State.
Both the Company and you hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the federal courts of the United States of America located in the State of New York solely in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this letter, and each of us hereby waives, and agrees not to assert, as a defense that either of us, as appropriate, is not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. We each hereby agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in any manner as may be permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof.
This letter may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this letter shall not
Mr. Michael Huseby October 16, 2008 Page 5
affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this letter. It is the parties' intention that this letter not be construed more strictly with regard to you or the Company.
You agree to keep this letter and its terms strictly confidential (unless it is made public by the Company); that (1) you are authorized to make any disclosure required of you by any federal, state or local laws or judicial proceedings, after providing the Company with prior written notice and an opportunity to respond to such disclosure (unless such notice is prohibited by law) and (2) you are authorized to disclose this letter and its terms to your legal, financial and tax advisors and your representatives may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of this letter and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to you relating to such tax treatment or structure.
provided
This letter reflects the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior understandings and agreements (including, without limitation, that certain employment agreement dated April 28, 2006).
This letter will automatically terminate, and be of no further force or effect, on the second anniversary of the date first written above (other than with respect to rights to payments, which, by the terms of this letter, explicitly arose before such date).
Sincerely, Hank J. Ratner Title:    Vice Chairman Date:    October 16, 2008
/s/ Hank J. Ratner
Accepted and Agreed:   Michael Huseby Date:  October 17, 2008  
/s/ Michael Huseby           


