FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20080801164827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
August 1, 2008
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
 
CSC HOLDINGS, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
 
1111 Stewart Avenue, Bethpage, New York 11714
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
 
Registrants' telephone number, including area code:
(516) 803-2300
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01
            
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
On August 1, 2008, Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries ("RNS"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, Inc., as of June 30, 2008 and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations were furnished to RNS bondholders in accordance with the requirements of the Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to RNS' and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's $300,000,000 8-3/4% Senior Notes due 2012 and the Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to RNS' and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's $325,000,000 10-3/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014. The RNS Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the RNS Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and both items are being furnished in this Form 8-K filing.
 
ITEM 9.01
            
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(c)
  
Exhibits
 
99.1.
                    
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of June 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007 and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007
 
99.2.
                    
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007
 
2
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1.
BUSINESS
         
 
In July 2004, Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") formed Rainbow National Services LLC (the "Company").  Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC ("Rainbow Programming Holdings"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision, owns 100% of the membership interests in the Company.  The Company is a holding company with no independent operations of its own.  Its subsidiaries include entities that principally own nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment services operated as integral parts of Cablevision, including AMC, WE tv and IFC.  The Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been derived from the condensed consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Cablevision and reflect certain assumptions and allocations.  The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company could differ from those that might have resulted had the Company been operated autonomously or as an entity independent of Cablevision.
 
NOTE 2.
BASIS OF PRESENTATION
         
 
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and Article 10 of Regulation S-X of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial information as required by the Company's indentures even though the Company is not a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements do not include all the information and notes required for complete annual financial statements.
 
The condensed consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2008 and for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 presented herein are unaudited; however, in the opinion of management, such condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the periods presented.  All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
The results of operations for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results that might be expected for future interim periods or for the full year ending December 31, 2008.
 
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Comprehensive income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 equals net income for the same periods.
 
CASH FLOWS
NOTE 3.
         
 
For purposes of the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, the Company considers short-term investments with a maturity at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
 
During the six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, the Company's non-cash investing and financing activities and other supplemental data were as follows:
 
 
In the first quarter of 2007, an adjustment of $1,629 was recorded to reduce excess costs over the fair value of net assets acquired that was pushed down to the Company from Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, the Company's indirect parent, in prior years.  This adjustment to basis was recorded as a deemed capital distribution to Rainbow Media Holdings LLC amounting to $1,064 in addition to the reduction of the related deferred income tax liability of $565.
 
RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS AND RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS NOT YET ADOPTED
NOTE 4.
        
 
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
 
In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 157, Fair Value Measurements ("Statement No. 157").  Statement No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.  Under Statement No. 157, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the market in which the reporting entity transacts.  It also clarifies the principle that fair value should be based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.  This Statement applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit
  Statement No. 157 became effective for the Company on January 1, 2008 with respect to financial assets and financial liabilities.   The FASB has deferred the adoption of Statement No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities to be effective for the Company on January 1, 2009.  The adoption of Statement No. 157 by the Company had no impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements with respect to financial assets and financial liabilities.   The Company has not yet determined the impact of Statement No. 157 as it relates to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities on its consolidated financial statements.
fair value measurements.  Accordingly, this Statement does not require any new fair value measurements.
 
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities - Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 ("Statement No. 159").  Statement No. 159 permits entities to elect, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial instruments and certain other items at fair value.  An entity shall report unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date, and recognize upfront costs and fees related to those items in earnings as incurred.  Statement No. 159 became effective as of January 1, 2008 for the Company.  The adoption of Statement No. 159 did not have any impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations as of and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008 as the Company did not elect to measure any eligible financial instruments or certain other items at fair value.
 
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
 
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities("Statement No. 161").  Statement No. 161 requires specific disclosures regarding the location and amounts of derivative instruments in the Company's financial statements; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect the Company's financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. Statement No. 161 is effective for the Company on January 1, 2009.  The impact of this standard will be to expand disclosures regarding the Company's derivative instruments.
 
In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. FAS 142-3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets.  FSP No. FAS 142-3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  FSP No. FAS 142-3 is effective for the Company on January 1, 2009.  The Company has not yet determined the impact FSP No. FAS 142-3 will have on its consolidated financial statements.
 
INCOME TAXES
NOTE 5.
         
 
The Company is a single-member limited liability company, indirectly wholly-owned by Rainbow Media Enterprises, Inc. ("RME"), a taxable corporation.  RME, a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision.  As such, the Company is treated as a division of RME and is included in the consolidated income tax return of Cablevision for federal and state income tax purposes. 
alone basis as if the Company filed separate consolidated income tax returns for the periods presented herein.
Accordingly, based upon the provisions of SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the income tax provision is determined on a stand-
 
The income tax expense for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 of $32,962 and $22,346, respectively, differs from the income tax expense derived from applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income due principally to the impact of state and local income taxes.
 
Since there is no tax sharing agreement in place between the Company and Cablevision, allocable current income tax liabilities calculated on a stand-alone company basis that the Company does not pay directly have been reflected as deemed capital contributions to the Company from its parent.  Such contributions amounted to $31,849 and $19,760 for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
NOTE 6.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
         
 
The following table summarizes information relating to the Company's acquired intangible assets at June 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007:
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
NOTE 7.
         
 
The Company classifies its business interests into two reportable segments: AMC Networks (which includes AMC and WE tv) and IFC.  These reportable segments are strategic business units that are managed separately.  The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment adjusted operating cash flow (defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense or benefit and restructuring charges or credits), a non-GAAP measure.  The Company has presented the components that reconcile adjusted operating cash flow to operating income, an accepted GAAP measure.  Information as to the operations of the Company's reportable business segments is set forth below.
 
 
Reconciliation (by Segment and in Total) of Adjusted Operating Cash Flow to Operating Income
 
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment amounts to the Company's consolidated balances is as follows:
 
 
 
Primarily represents intercompany receivables from Rainbow National Services LLC recorded on the balance sheets of AMC Networks and IFC.
(1)
  
 
Substantially all revenues and assets of the Company's reportable segments are attributed to or located in the United States.
 
Concentrations of Credit Risk
 
The Company had three customers that in the aggregate accounted for approximately 31% of the Company's consolidated net trade receivable balances at June 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, which exposes the Company to a concentration of credit risk.  These customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 37% and 39% of the Company's net revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
NOTE 8.
DEBT
         
 
On June 3, 2008, the Company entered into an Incremental Revolver Supplement ("Incremental Revolver") whereby the Company received commitments from lenders in the amount of $280,000.  The interest rate under the Incremental Revolver is 2.0% over the Eurodollar Rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and 1.0% over the Base Rate for Base Rate borrowings (as defined in the Incremental Revolver).  The Incremental Revolver matures on June 30, 2012 and the terms and conditions of the Incremental Revolver are no more restrictive than those of the Company's credit facility currently outstanding.  The Company is obligated to pay fees of 0.375% per annum on any undrawn portion of the Incremental Revolver commitment balance.  Borrowings under the Incremental Revolver may be repaid without penalty at any time.  There were no borrowings outstanding under the Incremental Revolver facility at June 30, 2008.
 
In connection with the Incremental Revolver, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $2,858, which are being amortized to interest expense over the four year term of the revolver.
 
In June 2008, the Company borrowed $210,000 under its $300,000 revolving credit facility which was transferred to Rainbow Media Holdings LLC ("RMH") and recorded as a capital distribution by the Company to its parent, Rainbow Programming Holdings, in connection with RMH's acquisition of Sundance Channel L.L.C. (see Note 10).  At June 30, 2008, the weighted average interest rate on the amounts drawn under the revolving credit facility was 3.476%.  There were $90,000 of undrawn revolver commitments at June 30, 2008.
NOTE 9.
LEGAL MATTERS
         
 
The Company is party to various claims in the ordinary course of business.  Although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty and the impact of the final resolution of these matters on the Company's results of operations in a particular subsequent reporting period is not known, management does not believe that the resolution of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company or the ability of the Company to meet its financial obligations as they become due.
 
Broadcast Music, Inc. Matter
 
Broadcast Music, Inc. ("BMI"), an organization that licenses the performance of musical compositions of its members, has alleged that certain of the Company's subsidiaries require a license to exhibit musical compositions in its catalog. BMI agreed to interim fees based on revenues covering certain periods for certain subsidiaries. These matters were submitted to a Federal Rate Court.  The interim fees paid to BMI remain subject to retroactive adjustment until such time as either a final decision is made by the Court or an agreement is reached by the parties.
 
Accounting Related Investigations
 
In June 2003, Cablevision reported that it had discovered certain improper expense accruals primarily at its national programming services.  The improper expense recognition matter has been the subject of investigations by the SEC and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York.  The SEC is continuing to investigate the improper expense recognition matter and Cablevision's timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements.
 
Stock Option Related Matters
 
Cablevision and CSC Holdings announced on August 8, 2006 that, based on a voluntary review of past practices in connection with grants of stock options and stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), they had determined that the grant date and exercise price assigned to a number of their stock option and SAR grants during the 1997-2002 period did not correspond to the actual grant date and the fair market value of Cablevision's common stock on the actual grant date.  The review was conducted with a law firm that was not previously involved with the Cablevision stock option plans.  Cablevision and CSC Holdings have advised the SEC and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York of these matters and each has commenced an investigation.  Cablevision and CSC Holdings have received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York seeking documents related to the stock option issues. Cablevision and CSC Holdings have also received a document request from the SEC relating to its informal investigation into these matters.  Cablevision and CSC Holdings continue to fully cooperate with such government investigations. In addition, purported derivative lawsuits related to Cablevision's past stock option and SAR grants were filed in 2006.
aggregate consideration valued at approximately $24,400, in the form of a combination of cash payments, repricing the exercise price of outstanding Cablevision options and SARs, return of outstanding common stock, restricted stock units, options and SARs (including rights to the $10 special dividend paid by Cablevision in 2006), and surrender of potential contractual claims.
defendants will provide Cablevision the
On June 4, 2008, Cablevision and CSC Holdings, entered into a Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement (the "Settlement Agreement") with the plaintiffs and most of the defendants in these lawsuits.  Under the Settlement Agreement, the settling
 
The financial statement impact of the Settlement Agreement will be recognized upon receipt of the court's final approval and is not anticipated to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements.
As contemplated by the Settlement Agreement, on June 16, 2008, the trial court in the Nassau County action issued an order approving the publication of a notice of the proposed settlement and scheduling a hearing for September 9, 2008 to determine whether to approve the settlement.  Assuming the court's final approval of the Settlement Agreement, this action will result in the dismissal of all state and federal derivative claims against the settling defendants.  In addition, Cablevision's director and officer liability insurer has agreed to make a payment to Cablevision of $10,000.  Plaintiffs' counsel will seek an award of fees and expenses to be paid out of the settlement proceeds in an amount not to exceed $7,116.  The Settlement Agreement remains subject to court approval. 
 
NOTE 10.
TRANSACTIONS
       
 
On June 16, 2008, certain other wholly-owned subsidiaries of RMH completed transactions which resulted in the 100% acquisition of Sundance Channel L.L.C. ("Sundance").  To partially fund payments made by RMH in connection with the acquisition, the Company borrowed $210,000 under its bank revolving credit facility which was transferred to RMH and recorded as a capital distribution by the Company to its parent, Rainbow Programming Holdings, a direct wholly owned subsidiary of RMH.

Exhibit 99.2
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
for the period ended June 30, 2008 is separately furnished by Rainbow National Services LLC and its subsidiaries ("RNS" and collectively with its subsidiaries, the "Company", "we", "us" or "our").
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationscontains statements that constitute forward looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  In this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, there are statements concerning our future operating and future financial performance.  Words such as "expects", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "may", "will", "should", "could", "potential", "continue", "intends", "plans" and similar words and terms used in the discussion of future operating and future financial performance identify forward-looking statements.
 
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties and that actual results or developments may differ materially from the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.  Factors that may cause such differences to occur include, but are not limited to:
 
     
the level of our revenues;
 
     
the cost of programming and industry conditions;
 
     
changes in the laws or regulations under which we operate;
 
     
developments in the government investigations and litigation related to past practices of Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") and CSC Holdings, Inc. ("CSC Holdings") in connection with grants of stock options and stock appreciation rights;
 
     
developments in the government investigations relating to improper expense recognition and the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements that were reported by Cablevision in June 2003;
 
     
the outcome of litigation and other proceedings, including the matters described in the notes to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements;
 
     
general economic conditions in the areas in which we operate;
 
     
the state of the market for debt securities and bank loans;
 
     
demand for advertising inventory;
 
     
our ability to obtain or produce content for our programming businesses;
 
     
the level of our capital expenditures;
 
     
the level of our expenses;
     
future acquisitions and dispositions of assets;
 
     
the demand for our programming among cable television system and direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators and telephone companies and our ability to maintain and renew affiliation agreements with cable television system and DBS operators and telephone companies;
 
     
market demand for new programming services;
 
     
other risks and uncertainties inherent in our programming businesses;
 
     
financial community and rating agency perceptions of our business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which we operate, and the additional factors described herein.
 
We disclaim any obligation to update or revise the forward looking statements contained herein, except as otherwise required by applicable federal securities laws.
 
Overview
 
We provide television programming to cable television system and DBS operators
and telephone companies (collectively referred to as operators)
primarily throughout the United States.  We own three nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment programming networks:  AMC, WE tv and IFC.
 
Our future performance is dependent, to a large extent, on
general economic conditions including the impact of direct competition, our ability to manage our businesses effectively, and our relative strength and leverage in the marketplace, both with suppliers and customers.
 
We earn revenues in two principal ways.  First, we receive affiliate fee payments from operators.  These revenues are generally on a per subscriber basis and earned under multi-year contracts with those operators referred to as "affiliation agreements". The specific affiliate fees we earn vary from operator to operator and also vary among our networks but are generally based upon the number of each operator's subscribers who receive our programming, referred to as "viewing subscribers."  The second principal source of revenues is from advertising.  Under our affiliation agreements, we have the right to sell a specific amount of national advertising time on our programming networks.  Our advertising revenues are more variable than affiliate fee revenues because most of our advertising is sold on a short-term basis, not under long-term contracts.  Also, our advertising revenues vary based upon the popularity of our programming as measured by rating services.
 
We seek to grow our revenues by increasing the number of operators that carry our services and the number of viewing subscribers.  We refer to this as our "penetration."  AMC, which is widely distributed, has less ability to increase its penetration than WE tv and IFC, which are not as widely distributed as AMC, a primarily analog service.  WE tv and IFC, although carried by many of the larger operators, have higher growth opportunities due to their current penetration levels with cable television system operators.  IFC is currently carried primarily on digital tiers, while WE tv is carried on either analog expanded basic or digital tiers.  Therefore, WE tv and IFC penetration rates may increase if operators are successful in converting their analog
subscribers to highly penetrated digital tiers of service. Our revenues may also increase over time through contractual rate increases stipulated in certain of our affiliation agreements.  In negotiating for increased or extended carriage, we may be subject to requests by operators to make upfront payments in exchange for additional subscribers or extended carriage, which we record as deferred carriage fees and which are amortized as a reduction to revenue over the period of the related affiliation agreements, or to waive for a specified period or accept lower per subscriber fees if certain additional subscribers are provided. We also may help fund the operators' efforts to market our channels or we may permit operators to offer limited promotional periods without payment of subscriber fees. As we continue our efforts to add subscribers, our subscriber revenue may be negatively affected by subscriber acquisition fees (deferred carriage), discounted subscriber fees and other payments; however, we believe that these transactions generate a positive return on investment over the contract period.  We seek to increase our advertising revenues by increasing the number of minutes of national advertising and by increasing rates for such advertising, but ultimately, the level of our advertising revenues is directly related to the overall distribution of our programming, penetration of our services and the popularity (including within desirable demographic groups) of our services as measured by rating services.
 
Our principal goals are to increase our affiliation fee revenues and our advertising revenues by increasing distribution and penetration of our services.  To do this, we must continue to contract for and produce high-quality, attractive programming.  Our greatest challenge arises from the increasing concentration of subscribers in the hands of a few operators, creating disparate bargaining power between us and the largest operators.  This increased concentration could adversely affect our ability to increase the penetration of our services or even result in decreased penetration.  In addition, this concentration gives those operators greater leverage in negotiating the price and other terms of affiliation agreements.
 
The Company had three customers that in the aggregate accounted for approximately 31% of the Company's consolidated net trade receivable balances at June 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, which exposes the Company to a concentration of credit risk. 
These customers accounted for approximately 37% and 39% of the Company's net revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  A
s a result of this concentration, the potential impact of a loss of any one of our major affiliate relationships would have a significant adverse impact on our business.
 
The Company classifies its business interests into two reportable segments:  AMC Networks (which comprises AMC and WE tv) and IFC.
 
Cautionary Note Concerning Historical Financial Statements
 
Our financial information does not necessarily reflect what our results of operations and financial position would have been if we had operated as an entity separate from Cablevision, our indirect parent, during the periods presented herein.
Results of Operations
 
The following table sets forth on a historical basis certain items related to operations as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DATA
 
 
Comparison of the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2008 Versus the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2007
 
Revenues, net
for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008 increased $19.8 million (12%) and $40.1 million (12%) respectively, as compared to revenues for the same periods in the prior year.  The net increases are attributable to the following:
 
 
 
The increase in advertising revenue for the
three and six months ended June 30, 2008
compared to the respective prior year periods at AMC Networks resulted principally from higher units sold.  The increase at IFC is due to increased programming sponsorship.   The increase in affiliate revenue for the
three and six months ended June 30, 2008
compared to the same periods in the prior year is due to
an increase in viewing subscribers and per subscriber rate increases.  Viewing subscribers as of June 30, 2008 compared to the same period in the prior year, increased 3.9% and 12.9% at AMC Networks and IFC, respectively.
 
 
The Company believes the WE tv and IFC programming services may benefit from increased distribution, especially on the digital tiers of cable television system operators as digital penetration increases, and increased advertising revenues as cable networks, including ad-supported niche programming networks (such as WE tv), attract a greater advertising market share.  These increases could potentially be offset by lower net effective rates per viewing
subscriber for our programming services due to the consolidation of operators and limited opportunities for increases in distribution in the United States for our substantially fully penetrated AMC programming service.  Changes in the viewership ratings of our AMC and WE tv programming services may also significantly affect future advertising revenues.
 
Technical and operating expenses
include primarily amortization of costs to license programming, including feature films, and programming and production costs.  Depreciation and amortization expense of fixed assets and definite lived intangibles are not included in technical and operating expenses but is presented as a separate operating expense.
 
Technical and operating expenses for 2008 increased $2.6 million (6%) and $2.3 million (3%) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2007.  The net increases in technical and operating expense are attributed to the following:
 
 
The increase in programming related costs is due primarily to increased non-film programming costs and broadband/video-on-demand related costs.
 
 
The increase in programming related costs is due primarily to increased non-film programming costs and broadband/video-on-demand related costs.
 
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses decreased to 26% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008, compared to 28% and 29% for the same periods in 2007, respectively.
 
There may be significant changes in the level of our expenses from quarter to quarter and/or year to year due to content acquisitions and/or original programming costs.  As additional competition for product increases from new programming services and alternate distribution technologies continue to develop in the industry, costs for film and other programming content may increase.
Selling, general and administrative expenses
include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs and costs of facilities.  Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $0.3 million (less than 1%) and $21.1 million (24%) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008, respectively, as compared to the same periods in 2007.  The net increases are attributable to the following:
 
 
The decrease in sales and marketing costs at AMC Networks of $0.9 million primarily related to a decrease in costs for the marketing and promotion of original programming series premieres, partially offset by an increase in advertising sales related expenses due to increased advertising sales revenue in the second quarter of 2008 compared to the second quarter of 2007.  The decrease at IFC of $0.4 million is primarily attributable to a decrease in marketing and promotion costs associated with the premiere of new original programming during the quarter.  The increase in other general and administrative costs at AMC Networks is primarily due to an increase in rent expense of $0.8 million and increased parent company allocations of $0.7 million.    Management fees increased due to the increased revenues of AMC Networks in 2008 compared to 2007.  Pursuant to an agreement with CSC Holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision, AMC LLC and WE LLC pay an annual management fee of 3.5% of their revenues (as defined under the terms of the agreement) to CSC Holdings on a monthly basis.
 
 
The increase in sales and marketing costs at AMC Networks of $15.9 million primarily related to the increase in costs for the marketing and promotion of original programming series premieres and an increase in advertising sales related expenses due to increased advertising sales revenue during the six months ended June 30, 2008 compared to the same period in the prior year.  The increase in other general and administrative costs at AMC Networks is primarily due to an increase in rent expense of $1.6 million, an increase in legal expenses of $0.3 million and increased parent company allocations of $1.6 million.  The increase in other general and
administrative costs at IFC is primarily due to an increase in rent expense of $0.4 million and increased parent company allocations of $0.5 million. Management fees increased due to the increased revenues of AMC Networks in 2008 compared to 2007.
 
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 27% and increased to 30% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008, respectively, compared to 30% and 27% for the same periods in 2007.
 
Restructuring charges
of $0.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2007 and $0.3 million and $0.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively, represents severance charges resulting from the elimination of certain staff positions due to the consolidation and reorganization of certain departments.
 
Depreciation and amortization
increased $0.3 million (2%) and decreased $0.2 million (1%) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2007.  The increase of $0.3 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2008 compared to the same period in 2007 is due to an increase in depreciation expense relating to fixed assets placed in service during the second quarter of 2008.  The decrease of $0.2 million for the six month period ended June 30, 2008 compared to the same period in 2007 is due to a decrease in amortization of intangible assets of $0.4 million due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in the first quarter of 2007, partially offset by an increase in depreciation expense of $0.2 million relating to fixed assets placed in service during the second quarter of 2008.
 
Net interest expense
decreased $8.1 million and $14.3 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year. The net decreases were attributable to the following:
 
 
Income tax expense
of $20.1 million and $33.0 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008, respectively, differs from the income tax expense derived from applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income due principally to the impact of state and local income taxes.
 
CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
 
Operating Activities
 
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $79.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 compared to $81.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2007.  The 2008 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $161.3 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items and an increase in cash resulting from a decrease in net other assets totaling $15.6 million, partially offset by a decrease in cash
resulting from the acquisition
of and payment of obligations relating to programming rights totaling $79.1 million and carriage fee payments of $18.6 million.
 
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $81.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2007.  The 2007 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $137.4 million of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items, and
an increase in accounts payable to affiliates, net of $18.9 million, partially offset by an increase in net other assets totaling $2.4 million
and a decrease in cash
resulting primarily from acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to programming rights totaling $72.2 million.
 
Investing Activities
 
Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 was $3.0 million and $0.5 million, respectively.  The 2008 and 2007 investing activities consisted of capital expenditures.  Capital expenditures in 2008 were primarily for the purchase of technical equipment for the transmission of our networks in high-definition.
 
Financing Activities
 
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $94.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008 compared to $85.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2007.  In 2008, financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $289.0 million, repayment of bank debt of $12.5 million, payment of financing costs of $2.9 million associated with a new incremental revolver supplement entered into in June 2008 and principal payments on capital leases of $0.4 million, partially offset by proceeds from bank debt of $210.0 million (as described below).  In 2007, financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $74.8 million, repayment of bank debt of $33.0 million, and principal payments on capital leases of $0.4 million, partially offset by proceeds from bank debt of $23.0 million.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
Overview
 
The operations of the businesses that are included in our consolidated financial statements collectively have historically generated positive cash flow from operating activities.  However, each of our programming businesses has substantial programming, acquisition and development expenditure requirements.
 
We generated positive net cash from operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007.  Our cash flow from operations and proceeds from borrowings available to us, provide the capital required for net funding and investment requirements of other Rainbow programming services that we do not own, including Rainbow's suite of 15 channels, produced exclusively in high definition and marketed for distribution to DBS and cable operators ("VOOM") and Rainbow's regional news networks ("News 12 Networks"), subject to the applicable covenants and limitations contained in our financing agreements.  We currently expect our net funding and investment requirements for the next twelve months will be met by one or more of the following:  our cash on hand, cash generated by our operating activities and available borrowings under our credit facility.  During the six months ended June 30, 2008, we distributed $44 million to Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC ("RPH"), our direct parent, related to its funding of other
Rainbow programming services, including VOOM and News 12 Networks and we distributed $245 million to RPH for Rainbow Media Holdings LLC's ("RMH") acquisition of Sundance Channel L.L.C. (see below).
 
The following table summarizes our outstanding debt, including capital lease obligations, interest expense and capital expenditures as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2008:
 
 
Debt Financing Agreements
 
We have an $800 million senior secured credit facility, which consists of a $500 million term A loan facility and a $300 million revolving credit facility.  The term A loan facility matures June 30, 2013 and the revolving credit facility matures June 30, 2012.  Outstanding borrowings under the term loan facility and revolving credit facility were $487.5 million and $210.0 million (see below), respectively, at June 30, 2008.  At June 30, 2008, the weighted average interest rates on the term A loan facility and amounts drawn under the revolving credit facility were 3.475% and 3.476%, respectively.  We had $90,000 in undrawn revolver commitments at June 30, 2008.
 
On June 3, 2008, we entered into an Incremental Revolver Supplement ("Incremental Revolver") whereby we received commitments from lenders in the amount of $280 million.  The interest rate under the Incremental Revolver is 2.0% over the Eurodollar Rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and 1.0% over the Base Rate for Base Rate borrowings (as defined in the Incremental Revolver).  The Incremental Revolver matures on June 30, 2012 and the terms and conditions of the Incremental Revolver are no more restrictive than those of our credit facility currently outstanding.  We are obligated to pay fees of 0.375% per annum on any undrawn portion of the Incremental Revolver commitment balance.  Borrowings under the Incremental Revolver may be repaid without penalty at any time.  There were no borrowings outstanding under the Incremental Revolver facility at June 30, 2008.
 
In connection with the Incremental Revolver, we incurred deferred financing costs of $2.9 million, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the revolver.
 
In June 2008, we borrowed $210 million under our $300 million revolving credit facility which was distributed to
RMH, our indirect parent,
along with an additional $35 million of cash on hand in connection with RMH's acquisition of Sundance Channel L.L.C..
 
As of June 30, 2008, we also have outstanding $325 million principal amount of 10 3/8% senior subordinated notes and $300 million principal amount of 8 3/4% senior notes.
We were in compliance with all of our financial covenants under our credit agreement as of June 30, 2008.  In addition, we are also subject to financial covenants of the senior and senior subordinated notes we have issued which are generally less restrictive than those contained in our credit agreement.
 
Future access to the debt markets and the cost of any future debt issuances are also influenced by our credit ratings, which are provided by Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") and Standard & Poor's.  Key factors in the assessment of our credit ratings include our free cash flow generating capacity, fiscal strategy, enterprise value and industry risk.  Our corporate credit rating is Ba3 by Moody's with a stable outlook and BB by Standard & Poor's with a negative outlook.  Any future downgrade to our credit ratings by either rating agency could increase the interest rate on future debt issuances and could adversely impact our ability to raise additional funds.
 
Interest Rate Risk
 
The credit agreement is a variable rate instrument.  Accordingly, the Company is subject to interest rate volatility.
 
Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted
 
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities("Statement No. 161").  Statement No. 161 requires specific disclosures regarding the location and amounts of derivative instruments in the Company's financial statements; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect the Company's financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. Statement No. 161 is effective for the Company on January 1, 2009.  The impact from this standard will be to expand disclosures regarding the Company's derivative instruments.
 
In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. FAS 142-3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets.  FSP No. FAS 142-3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  FSP No. FAS 142-3 is effective for the Company on January 1, 2009.  The Company has not yet determined the impact FSP No. FAS 142-3 will have on its consolidated financial statements.


