FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20081223215814.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
On December 18, 2008, as a result of the decision to discontinue funding of the U.S. domestic offering of the suite of 15 channels (VOOM) of VOOM HD Holdings LLC (VOOM HD), the management of Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, Inc. (collectively, the Companies) concluded that charges for impairment of certain assets of VOOM HD would be required under generally accepted accounting principles. Previously, VOOM had been available in the United States only on the Companies cable television systems and EchoStar Communications Corporations DISH Network. In May 2008, following a purported termination of its affiliation agreement with VOOM HD, EchoStar ceased distribution of VOOM on its DISH Network. See Part IILegal ProceedingsEchoStar Contract Dispute in the Companies Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 for further discussion of the affiliation agreement and the dispute between VOOM HD and EchoStar. VOOM HD currently expects to continue to distribute those channels of the VOOM service internationally that it currently distributes.
As a result of the Companies' recent decision to terminate the U.S. domestic programming business of VOOM, based on currently available information, the Companies expect to incur between approximately $45 million and $65 million of impairment charges related to the impairment of certain contractual programming rights, property, plant and equipment and other miscellaneous assets under generally accepted accounting principles. These impairment charges are expected to be reflected in the Companies' fourth quarter 2008 financial statements. The impairment charges include cash expenditures that are estimated to aggregate between approximately $25 million and $27 million related to existing contractual commitments, which are primarily programming related. Except for these cash payments, the impairment charges are not expected to result in any material future cash expenditures.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 23, 2008
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 23, 2008


