FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20090731143624.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
July 31, 2009
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
 
CSC HOLDINGS, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
 
1111 Stewart Avenue, Bethpage, New York 11714
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
 
Registrants' telephone number, including area code:
(516) 803-2300
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01   REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
On July 31, 2009, Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries ("RNS"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, Inc., as of June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008 and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations were furnished to RNS bondholders in accordance with the requirements of the Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to RNS' and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's $300,000,000 8-3/4% Senior Notes due 2012 and the Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to RNS' and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's $325,000,000 10-3/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014. The RNS Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the RNS Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and both items are being furnished in this Form 8-K filing.
 
ITEM 9.01       
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d)      Exhibits
 
99.1.
                                                               
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008 and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008
 
99.2.
                                                               
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1.                BUSINESS
 
In July 2004, Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") formed Rainbow National Services LLC (the "Company").  Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC ("Rainbow Programming Holdings"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision, owns 100% of the membership interests in the Company.  The Company is a holding company with no independent operations of its own.  Its subsidiaries include entities that principally own nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment services operated as integral parts of Cablevision, including AMC, WE tv and IFC.  The Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been derived from the condensed consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Cablevision and reflect certain assumptions and allocations.  The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company could differ from those that might have resulted had the Company been operated autonomously or as an entity independent of Cablevision.
 
NOTE 2.                BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and Article 10 of Regulation S-X of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim financial information as required by the Company's indentures even though the Company is not a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements do not include all the information and notes required for complete annual financial statements.
 
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
The condensed consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2009 and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 presented herein are unaudited; however, in the opinion of management, such condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the periods presented.  All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
The results of operations for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results that might be expected for future interim periods or for the full year ending December 31, 2009.
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Comprehensive income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 equals net income for the same periods.
 
NOTE 3.                CASH FLOWS
 
For purposes of the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows, the Company considers the balance of its investments in funds that substantially hold securities that mature within three months or less from the date the fund purchases these securities to be cash equivalents.
 
During the six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, the Company's non-cash investing and financing activities and other supplemental data were as follows:
 
 
NOTE 4.
               
RECENTLY ADOPTED AND RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS NOT YET ADOPTED
 
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
 
In May 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 165, Subsequent Events ("Statement No. 165"), which requires an entity after the balance sheet date to evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in its financial statements.  Statement No. 165 determines the circumstances under which the entity shall recognize these events or transactions in its financial statements and provides the disclosures that an entity shall make about them including disclosing the date through which the entity evaluated these events or transactions, as well as whether that date is the date the entity's financial statements were issued or the date the financial statements were available to be issued.  Statement No. 165 became effective for the Company as of June 30, 2009.  The Company evaluated all events or transactions that occurred after June 30, 2009 up through July 31, 2009, the date the Company issued these condensed consolidated financial statements.  During this period, the Company did not have any material recognizable subsequent events.
 
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities("Statement No. 161").  Statement No. 161 requires specific disclosures regarding the location and amounts of derivative instruments in the Company's financial statements; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how
 
derivative instruments and related hedged items affect the Company's financial position, financial performance, and cash flows.  Statement No. 161 became effective as of January 1, 2009 for the Company. 
The Company has provided the required disclosures regarding derivative instruments in Note 9.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations ("Statement No. 141R").  Statement No. 141R requires an acquirer to recognize the assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date, measured at their fair values as of that date.  Also, in April 2009, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. SFAS 141R-1, Accounting for Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination That Arise from Contingencies, to address some of the application issues under Statement No. 141R.  FSP No. SFAS 141R-1 deals with the initial recognition and measurement of an asset acquired or a liability assumed in a business combination that arises from a contingency (provided the fair value on the date of acquisition of the related asset or liability can be determined).  Both Statement No. 141R and FSP No. SFAS 141R-1 became effective as of January 1, 2009 for the Company. Accordingly, any business combination completed prior to January 1, 2009 was accounted for pursuant to SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations.  Business combinations completed subsequent to January 1, 2009, have been accounted
for
pursuant to Statement No. 141R and FSP No. SFAS 141R-1.
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements ("Statement No. 157").  Statement No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.  Under Statement No. 157, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the market in which the reporting entity transacts.  It also clarifies the principle that fair value should be based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.  Statement No. 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements.  Accordingly, this Statement does not require any new fair value measurements.  Statement No. 157 became effective for the Company on January 1, 2008 with respect to financial assets and financial liabilities.   The additional disclosures required by Statement No. 157 are included in Note 10.
 
The adoption of Statement No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities which include goodwill, intangible assets, and long-lived assets measured at fair value for impairment assessments, and nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination, became effective for the Company on January 1, 2009.  The adoption of Statement No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
In April 2009, the FASB issued FASB FSP No. FAS 157-4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or the Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly.  FSP No. FAS 157-4 amends Statement No. 157 to provide additional guidance on (i) estimating fair value when the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability have significantly decreased in relation to normal market activity for the asset or liability, and (ii) circumstances that may indicate that a transaction is not orderly.  FSP
 
No. FAS 157-4 also requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements in interim and annual reporting periods.  FSP No. FAS 157-4 became effective for the Company during the quarter ended June 30, 2009.  The adoption of FSP No. FAS 157-4 did not have an impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2, Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments ("FSP No. FAS 115-2").  FSP No. FAS 115-2 provides additional guidance on the timing of impairment recognition and greater clarity about the credit and noncredit components of impaired debt securities that are not expected to be sold.  FSP No. FAS 115-2 also requires additional disclosures about impairments in interim and annual reporting periods.  FSP No. FAS 115-2 became effective for the Company during the quarter ended June 30, 2009.  The adoption of FSP No. FAS 115-2 did not have an impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 107-1 and APB No. 28-1, Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments, which amends SFAS No. 107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments, to require disclosures about fair value of financial instruments for interim reporting periods of publicly traded companies, as well as in annual financial statements.  This FSP also amends APB Opinion No. 28, Interim Financial Reporting, to require those disclosures in summarized financial information at interim reporting periods.  FSP No. FAS 107-1 and APB No. 28-1 became effective for the Company during the quarter ended June 30, 2009.  The additional disclosures required by FSP 107-1 and APB No. 28-1 are included in Note 11.
 
In April 2008, the
FASB issued FSP No. FAS 142-3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets.  FSP No. FAS 142-3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  FSP No. FAS 142-3 became effective as of January 1, 2009 for the Company.  The adoption of FSP No. FAS 142-3
did not have an impact
on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued EITF Issue No. 07-1, Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements("EITF 07-1"). EITF 07-1 defines collaborative arrangements and establishes reporting requirements for transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement and between participants in the arrangement and third parties. EITF 07-1 also establishes the appropriate income statement presentation and classification for joint operating activities and payments between participants, as well as the disclosure requirements related to these arrangements. EITF 07-1
became effective as of January 1, 2009 for the Company
.  The adoption of EITF 07-1 did not have an impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
 
To be Adopted in the Third Quarter of 2009
 
In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 168, The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, a replacement of FASB Statement No. 162 ("Statement No. 168"), which establishes the FASB Accounting Standards Codification as the source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP.  Statement No. 168 explicitly recognizes rules and interpretive releases of the SEC under federal securities laws as authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants.  The Company does not expect the adoption of Statement No.168 to have a material effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
NOTE 5.                INCOME TAXES
 
The Company is a single-member limited liability company, indirectly wholly-owned by Rainbow Media Enterprises, Inc. ("RME"), a taxable corporation.  RME, a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision.  As such, the Company is treated as a division of RME and is included in the consolidated income tax return of Cablevision for federal and state income tax purposes.  The income tax provision is determined on a stand-
alone basis as if the Company filed separate consolidated income tax returns for the periods presented herein.
 
The income tax expense for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 of $39,762 and $32,962, respectively, differs from the income tax expense derived from applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income due principally to the impact of state and local income taxes.
 
Since there is no tax sharing agreement in place between the Company and Cablevision, allocable current income tax liabilities calculated on a stand-alone company basis that the Company does not pay directly have been reflected as deemed capital contributions to the Company from its parent.  Such contributions amounted to $40,338 and $31,849 for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
NOTE 6.                INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
The following table summarizes information relating to the Company's acquired intangible assets at June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008:
 
 
 
The Company has historically been able to renew affiliation agreements upon expiration and has factored its experience with such renewals in estimating the future cash flows associated with its affiliation agreements and affiliate relationship intangible assets.
 
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the six months ended June 30, 2009 are as follows:
 
 
In March 2009, the Company acquired a film web site business for $250 cash and recorded a liability of $231 for the net present value of additional annual required payments of $135 through
 
2011.  In allocating the $481 purchase price, the Company recorded intangible assets of $126, $274 and $81 for advertiser relationships, other definite-lived intangibles and goodwill, respectively.
 
NOTE 7.            SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
The Company classifies its business interests into two reportable segments: AMC Networks (which includes AMC and WE tv) and IFC.  These reportable segments are strategic business units that are managed separately.  The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment adjusted operating cash flow (defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense or benefit and restructuring charges or credits), a non-GAAP measure.  The Company has presented the components that reconcile adjusted operating cash flow to operating income, an accepted GAAP measure.  Information as to the operations of the Company's reportable business segments is set forth below.
 
 
Reconciliation (by Segment and in Total) of Adjusted Operating Cash Flow to Operating Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment amounts to the Company's consolidated balances is as follows:
 
 
 
Substantially all revenues and assets of the Company's reportable segments are attributed to or located in the United States.
 
Concentrations of Credit Risk
 
Financial instruments that may potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade account receivables.  Cash is invested in money market funds and bank time deposits.  The Company monitors the financial institutions and money market funds where it invests its cash and cash equivalents with diversification among counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution.  The Company's emphasis is primarily on safety of principal and liquidity and secondarily on maximizing the yield on its investments.  The Company had three customers that in the aggregate accounted for approximately 31% and 30% of the Company's consolidated net trade receivable balances at June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, which exposes the Company to a concentration of credit risk.  These customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 36% and 37% of the Company's net revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
NOTE 8.                LEGAL MATTERS
 
Broadcast Music, Inc. Matter
 
Broadcast Music, Inc. ("BMI"), an organization that licenses the performance of musical compositions of its members, has alleged that certain of the Company's subsidiaries require a license to exhibit musical compositions in its catalog. BMI agreed to interim fees based on revenues covering certain periods for certain subsidiaries. These matters were submitted to a Federal Rate Court.  The interim fees paid to BMI remain subject to retroactive adjustment until such time as either a final decision is made by the Court or an agreement is reached by the parties.
 
Other Legal Matters
 
In addition to the matter discussed above, the Company is party to various lawsuits and claims in the ordinary course of business.  Although the outcome of these other matters cannot be predicted with certainty and the impact of the final resolution of these other matters on the Company's results of operations in a particular subsequent reporting period is not known, management does not believe that the resolution of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company or the ability of the Company to meet its financial obligations as they become due.
 
NOTE 9.                DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS
 
To manage interest rate risk, the Company has entered into interest rate swap contracts to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable rates (see below).  Such contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates.  The Company does not enter into interest rate swap contracts for speculative or trading purposes and it has only entered into transactions with counterparties that are rated investment grade.  The Company monitors the financial institutions that are counterparties to its
 
interest rate swap contracts and it diversifies its swap contracts among various counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution.
 
In November 2008, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with a notional amount of $450,000 to effectively fix borrowing rates on a substantial portion of the Company's floating rate debt.  These contracts are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  As a result of these transactions, the interest rate paid on approximately 84% of the Company's debt (excluding capital leases) as of June 30, 2009 is effectively fixed (49% being fixed rate obligations and 35% is effectively fixed through utilization of these interest rate swap contracts).  The table below summarizes certain terms of these interest rate swap contracts as of June 30, 2009:
 
 
*
                                       
Represents the floating rate received by the Company under its interest rate swap contracts at June 30, 2009 and does not represent the rates to be received by the Company on future payments.
 
As of June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the interest rate swap contracts noted above had a fair value of $2,494 and $2,697, respectively, a liability position, as reflected as liabilities under derivative contracts in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
 
The net losses aggregating $(1,694) and $(2,715) are reflected in loss on derivative contracts, net in the condensed consolidated statements of income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, respectively, and represent realized losses of $(1,582) and $(2,918) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, respectively, as a result of net cash interest expense and unrealized (losses) gains of $(112) and $203 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, respectively, as a result of the change in the fair value of the underlying interest rate swap contracts.
 
NOTE 10.              FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT
 
The Company adopted Statement No. 157 on January 1, 2008 for certain financial assets and financial liabilities.  Statement No.  157 requires enhanced disclosures about assets and liabilities measured at fair value.  As noted in Note 4 above, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement No. 157 with respect to its nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities on January 1, 2009.  However, there were no material nonfinancial assets or nonfinancial liabilities requiring initial measurement or subsequent remeasurement for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009.
 
The fair value hierarchy as outlined in Statement No. 157 is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are used to measure fair value that are either observable or unobservable.  Observable inputs reflect assumptions market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability based on market data obtained from independent sources while unobservable inputs
 
reflect a reporting entity's pricing based upon their own market assumptions.  The fair value hierarchy consists of the following three levels:
 
                 
Level I - Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
                 
Level II - Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations whose inputs are observable or whose significant value drivers are observable.
                 
Level III - Instruments whose significant value drivers are unobservable.
 
The following table presents for each of these hierarchy levels, the Company's financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008:
 
At June 30, 2009:
 
 
At December 31, 2008:
 
 
The Company's cash equivalents are classified within Level II of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued primarily on inputs that can be observed with market price information and other relevant information from third-party pricing services.
 
The Company's liabilities under derivative contracts are valued using market-based inputs to valuation models.  These valuation models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms and interest rate yield curves.  When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors such as liquidity and credit considerations.  Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence.  Since model inputs can generally be verified and do not involve significant management judgment, the Company has concluded that these instruments should be classified within Level II of the fair value hierarchy.
 
The Company considers the impact of credit risk when measuring the fair value of its derivative asset and/or liability positions, as applicable.
 
NOTE 11.
                                         
DISCLOSURES ABOUT THE FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
 
Liabilities Under Derivative Contracts
(carried on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets at fair value. See Note 9.)
 
Bank Debt, Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes
 
The fair values of each of the Company's debt instruments are based on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for instruments of the same remaining maturities.
 
The carrying values and estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments, excluding those that are carried at fair value in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets, are summarized as follows:
 
 
 
(a) The carrying value of the Companys' bank debt which bears
interest at
variable rates approximates its fair value.
 
Fair value estimates related to the Company's debt instruments presented above are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market information and information about the financial instruments. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgments and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.

Exhibit 99.2
 
This
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
for the period ended June 30, 2009 is separately furnished by Rainbow National Services LLC and its subsidiaries ("RNS" and collectively with its subsidiaries, the "Company", "we", "us" or "our").
 
This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationscontains statements that constitute forward looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  In this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, there are statements concerning our future operating and future financial performance.  Words such as "expects", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "may", "will", "should", "could", "potential", "continue", "intends", "plans" and similar words and terms used in the discussion of future operating and future financial performance identify forward-looking statements.
 
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties and that actual results or developments may differ materially from the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.  Factors that may cause such differences to occur include, but are not limited to:
 
                 
the level of our revenues;
 
                 
demand for advertising inventory;
 
                 
the cost of programming and industry conditions;
 
                 
changes in the laws or regulations under which we operate;
 
                 
the outcome of litigation and other proceedings, including the matters described in the notes to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements;
 
                 
general economic conditions in the areas in which we operate;
 
                 
the state of the market for debt securities and bank loans;
 
                 
our ability to obtain or produce content for our programming businesses;
 
                 
the level of our capital expenditures;
 
                 
the level of our expenses;
 
                 
future acquisitions and dispositions of assets;
 
                 
the demand for our programming among cable television system operators, direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators and telephone companies and our ability to maintain and renew affiliation agreements with cable television system operators, DBS operators and telephone companies;
                 
market demand for new programming services;
 
                 
whether pending uncompleted transactions, if any, are completed on the terms and at the times set forth (if at all);
 
                 
other risks and uncertainties inherent in our programming businesses;
 
                 
financial community and rating agency perceptions of our business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which we operate, and the additional factors described herein.
 
We disclaim any obligation to update or revise the forward looking statements contained herein, except as otherwise required by applicable federal securities laws.
 
Overview
 
All dollar amounts and per unit data, included in the following discussion are presented in thousands.
 
We provide television programming to cable television system operators, DBS operators
and telephone companies (collectively referred to as "operators")
primarily throughout the United States.  We own three nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment programming networks:  AMC, WE tv and IFC.
 
Our future performance is dependent, to a large extent, on
general economic conditions including the impact of direct competition, our ability to manage our businesses effectively, and our relative strength and leverage in the marketplace, both with suppliers and customers.
 
Continued market disruptions from the world-wide financial crisis could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our products, such as lower levels of television advertising and increased incidence of our advertising customer's inability to pay for the services we provide.  We have experienced some of the effects of this economic downturn.  Continuation of events such as these may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.
 
We earn revenues in two principal ways.  First, we receive affiliation payments from operators.  These revenues are generally on a per subscriber basis and earned under multi-year contracts with those operators referred to as "affiliation agreements". The specific affiliation fee revenues we earn vary from operator to operator and also vary among our networks, but are generally based upon the number of each operator's subscribers who receive our programming, referred to as "viewing subscribers," or are a fixed contractual monthly fee.
 
The second principal source of revenues is from advertising.  Under our affiliation agreements, we have the right to sell a specific amount of national advertising time on our programming networks.  Our advertising revenues are more variable than affiliation fee revenues because most of our advertising is sold on a short-term basis, not under long-term contracts.  Also, most of our advertising revenues vary based upon the popularity of our programming as measured by rating services.
We seek to grow our revenues by increasing the number of operators that carry our services and the number of viewing subscribers.  We refer to this as our "penetration."  AMC, which is widely distributed, has less ability to increase its penetration than WE tv and IFC, which are not as widely distributed as AMC, a primarily analog service.  WE tv and IFC, although carried by many of the larger operators, have higher growth opportunities due to their current penetration levels with those operators.  IFC is currently carried primarily on digital tiers, while WE tv is carried on either analog expanded basic or digital tiers.  Therefore, WE tv and IFC penetration rates may increase if operators are successful in converting their analog subscribers to highly penetrated digital tiers of service. Our revenues may also increase over time through contractual rate increases stipulated in certain of our affiliation agreements.  In negotiating for increased or extended carriage, we may be subject to requests by operators to make upfront payments in exchange for additional subscribers or extended carriage, which we record as deferred carriage fees and which are amortized as a reduction to revenue over the period of the related affiliation agreements, or to waive for a specified period or accept lower per subscriber fees if certain additional subscribers are provided. We also may help fund the operators' efforts to market our channels. As we continue our efforts to add subscribers, our subscriber revenue may be negatively affected by subscriber acquisition fees (deferred carriage), discounted subscriber fees and other payments; however, we believe that these transactions generate a positive return on investment over the contract period.  We seek to increase our advertising revenues by increasing the number of minutes of national advertising sold and by increasing the rates we charge for such advertising, but, ultimately, the level of our advertising revenues, in most cases, is directly related to the overall distribution of our programming, penetration of our services and the popularity (including within desirable demographic groups) of our services as measured by rating services.
 
Our principal goals are to increase our affiliation fee revenues and our advertising revenues by increasing distribution and penetration of our services.  To do this, we must continue to contract for and produce high-quality, attractive programming.  One of our greatest challenges arises from the increasing concentration of subscribers in the hands of a few operators, creating disparate bargaining power between the largest operators and us.  This increased concentration could adversely affect our ability to increase the penetration of our services or even result in decreased penetration.  In addition, this concentration gives those operators greater leverage in negotiating the price and other terms of affiliation agreements.
 
The Company had three customers that in the aggregate accounted for approximately 31% and 30% of the Company's consolidated net trade receivable balances at June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, which exposes the Company to a concentration of credit risk. 
These customers accounted for approximately 36% and 37% of the Company's net revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  A
s a result of this concentration, the potential impact of a loss of any one of our major affiliate relationships would have a significant adverse impact on our business.
 
The Company classifies its business interests into two reportable segments:  AMC Networks (which comprises AMC and WE tv) and IFC.
Cautionary Note Concerning Historical Financial Statements
 
Our financial information does not necessarily reflect what our results of operations and financial position would have been if we had operated as an entity separate from Cablevision, our indirect parent, during the periods presented herein.
Results of Operations
 
The following tables sets forth on a historical basis certain items related to operations as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DATA
 
Comparison of the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2009 Versus the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2008
 
Revenues, net
for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 increased $12,480 (7%) and $28,011 (8%) respectively, as compared to revenues for the same periods in the prior year.  The net increases are attributable to the following:
 
 
The increase in advertising revenue for the
three and six months ended June 30, 2009
compared to the respective prior year periods at AMC Networks resulted principally from improved program ratings at WE tv and higher units sold at AMC for the six months ended June 30, 2009.  The decrease at IFC is due to the impact of current economic conditions.   The increase in affiliation fee revenue for the
three and six months ended June 30, 2009
compared to the same periods in the prior year periods is due to
an increase in viewing subscribers (see table below) and increases in affiliation rates.  Viewing subscribers as of June 30, 2009 compared to the same period in the prior year, increased 3.1% and 5.3% at AMC Networks and IFC, respectively.
 
 
The Company believes the WE tv and IFC programming services may benefit from increased distribution, especially on the digital tiers of cable television system operators as digital penetration increases, and increased advertising revenues as cable networks, including ad-supported niche programming networks (such as WE tv), attract a greater advertising market share.  These increases could potentially be offset by lower net effective rates per viewing subscriber for our programming services due to the consolidation of operators and limited opportunities for increases in distribution in the United States for our substantially fully
 
penetrated AMC programming service.  Changes in the viewership ratings of our AMC and WE tv programming services may also significantly affect future advertising revenues.
 
Technical and operating expenses
include primarily amortization of program rights, including those for feature films, and programming and production costs.  Depreciation and amortization expense of fixed assets and definite lived intangibles is not included in technical and operating expenses but is presented as a separate operating expense.
 
Technical and operating expenses for 2009 increased $5,896 (12%) and $16,100 (17%) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2008.  The net increases in technical and operating expenses are attributed to the following:
 
 
The increase in amortization of programming content and series development/original programming costs of $5,116 and $555 at AMC Networks and IFC, respectively, for the three months ended June 30, 2009 compared to the same period in the prior year is due primarily to increased amortization of non-film programming costs.   The increase in programming related costs at AMC Networks is due primarily to increased interstitial programming costs and high-definition formatting costs.
 
 
The increase in amortization of programming content and series development/original programming costs of $11,121 at AMC Networks for the six months ended June 30, 2009 compared to the same period in the prior year is due primarily to increased amortization of non-film programming costs, and to a lesser extent, higher costs incurred related to development of original programming.   The increase in amortization of programming content and series development/original programming costs of $2,375 at IFC for the six months ended June 30, 2009 compared to the same period in the prior year is due primarily to increased amortization of film and non-film programming costs, partially offset by a decrease in costs incurred related to development of original programming.
 
The increase in programming related costs at AMC Networks is due primarily to increased interstitial programming costs and high-definition formatting costs.
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased to 28% and 29% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, respectively, compared to 26% for the same periods in 2008.  For the year ending 2009, we expect that technical and operating expenses as a percentage of revenues will be moderately greater than the same period in 2008.
 
There may be significant changes in the level of our expenses from quarter to quarter and/or moderate changes year to year due to content acquisitions and/or original programming costs.  As additional competition for product increases from new programming services and alternate distribution technologies continue to develop in the industry, costs for content acquisitions and/or original programming may increase.
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses
include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs and costs of facilities.  Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $2,945 (6%) and decreased $1,769 (2%) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, respectively, as compared to the same periods in 2008.  The net increase (decrease) is attributable to the following:
 
 
The decrease in sales and marketing costs at AMC Networks of $1,993 is primarily related to a decrease in costs for the marketing and promotion of original programming and a decrease in advertising sales related expenses in the second quarter of 2009 compared to the second quarter of 2008.  The increase at IFC of $1,573 is primarily attributable to an increase in marketing and promotion costs associated with the premiere of new original programming during the quarter.  The increase in other general and administrative costs at AMC Networks is primarily due to an increase in rent related expense of $620 and increased parent company allocations of $825.    Management fees increased due to the increased revenues of AMC Networks in 2009 compared to 2008.  Pursuant to an agreement with CSC Holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision, AMC LLC and WE LLC pay an annual management fee of 3.5% of their revenues (as defined under the terms of the agreement) to CSC Holdings on a monthly basis.
 
The decrease in sales and marketing costs at AMC Networks of $8,021 is primarily related to a decrease in costs for the marketing and promotion of original programming during the six months ended June 30, 2009 compared to the same period in the prior year.  The increase in other general and administrative costs at AMC Networks is primarily due to increased parent company allocations of $1,864 and an increase in rent related expense of $647.  The increase in other general and administrative costs at IFC is primarily due to increased parent company allocations of $672, an increase in rent related expense of $220 and an increase in employee related costs of $502, partially offset by a decrease in professional fees of $251. Management fees increased due to the increased revenues of AMC Networks in 2009 compared to 2008.
 
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 26% and 27% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, respectively, compared to 27% and 30% for the same periods in 2008 which is principally a result of a net decrease in spending for the marketing and promotion of original programming.
 
There may be significant changes in the level of our expenses from quarter to quarter due to the timing of promotion and marketing of original programming and the number of premieres that occur during a quarter.  The decrease in selling, marketing and advertising costs at the AMC, WE tv and IFC businesses for the six months ended June 30, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008 may not be indicative of the anticipated full year results for the year ending December 31, 2009.
 
Restructuring (credits) expense
of $(8) and $319 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008, respectively, represents severance charges resulting from the elimination of certain staff positions due to the consolidation and reorganization of certain departments.
 
Depreciation and amortization
decreased $550 (4%) and $431 (1%) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2008.  The decrease is due primarily to a decrease in amortization of intangible assets of $371 and $345 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 compared to the same periods in 2008 due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in the second quarter of 2009.
 
Net interest expense
decreased $2,077 (10%) and $5,939 (13%) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year. The net decreases are attributable to the following:
 
 
See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" discussion below for a breakdown of interest expense.
Loss on derivative contracts, net
of $(1,694) and $(2,715) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, respectively, represent the changes in the fair value of the underlying interest rate swap contracts including
realized losses of $(1,582) and $(2,918) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, respectively, as a result of net cash interest expense and unrealized (losses) gains of $(112) and $203 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, respectively.  
As the underlying interest rate swap contracts were entered into in November 2008 (see below), there was no such loss in the three and six months ended June 30, 2008.  The interest rate swap contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on a substantial portion of the Company's floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates.  The loss on interest rate swap contracts resulted from a downward shift in the yield curve over the life of the contracts.
 
Income tax expense
of $21,602 and $39,762 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, respectively, resulted primarily from pretax income, the impact of state income taxes and non-deductible expenses.
 
Income tax expense of $20,052 and $32,962 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008, respectively, resulted primarily from pretax income, the impact of state income taxes and non-deductible expenses.
 
CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
 
Operating Activities
 
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $148,053 for the six months ended June 30, 2009 compared to $79,153 for the six months ended June 30, 2008.  The 2009 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $185,342 of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items and an increase in cash resulting from an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $17,407, an increase in accounts payable to affiliates of $40,949 and decrease in net other assets totaling $2,100, partially offset by a decrease in cash
resulting from the acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to programming rights totaling $95,299 and carriage fee payments of $2,446.
 
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $79,153 for the six months ended June 30, 2008.  The 2008 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $161,348 of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items and an increase in cash resulting from a decrease in net other assets totaling $15,463, partially offset by a decrease in cash
resulting from the acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to programming rights totaling $79,080 and carriage fee payments of $18,578.
 
Investing Activities
 
Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 was $752 and $3,049, respectively.  The 2009 investing activities consisted of capital expenditures of $502 and payments for the acquisition of a business of $250.  Capital expenditures in 2008 of $3,049 consisted of capital expenditures which were primarily for the purchase of technical equipment for the transmission of our networks in high-definition.
Financing Activities
 
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $109,848 for the six months ended June 30, 2009 compared to $94,758 for the six months ended June 30, 2008.  In 2009, financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $57,000, repayment of bank debt of $52,500 and principal payments on capital leases of $348.
 
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $94,758 for the six months ended June 30, 2008.  In 2008, financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $289,000, repayment of bank debt of $12,500, payment of financing costs of $2,858 associated with a new incremental revolver supplement entered into in June 2008 and principal payments on capital leases of $400, partially offset by proceeds from bank debt of $210,000.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
Overview
 
The operations of the businesses that are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements collectively have historically generated positive cash flow from operating activities.  However, each of our programming businesses has substantial programming, acquisition and development expenditure requirements.
 
We generated positive net cash from operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008.  Sources of cash include primarily cash flow from the operations of our businesses and borrowings under our revolving credit facilities.  Our principal uses of cash include our debt service and
the net funding and investment requirements of other Rainbow programming services that we do not own, including
Rainbow's regional news networks ("News 12 Networks")
and the continuing international operations of
Rainbow's high-definition channels ("VOOM HD Networks").  We currently expect our net funding and investment requirements for the next twelve months, including term loan repayments aggregating $25,000, will be met by one or more of the following:  our cash on hand, cash generated by our operating activities and available borrowings under our credit facilities.  The decision of the Company as to the use of cash on hand, cash generated from operating activities and borrowings under our bank credit facilities will be based upon an ongoing review of the funding needs of the business, the optimal allocation of cash resources, the timing of cash flow generation and the cost of borrowing under our bank credit facilities.  Moreover, the Company will monitor the credit markets and may seek opportunities to issue debt, the proceeds of which could be used to fund cash requirements or make distributions to CSC Holdings or other Rainbow businesses that we do not own.
  The Company has accessed the debt markets for significant amounts of capital in the past and may do so in the future. 
During the six months ended June 30, 2009, we distributed $57,000 to Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC, our direct parent, to, among other things, fund other Rainbow programming services, including News 12 Networks and VOOM HD Networks.
 
We have assessed the implications of the recent distress in the capital and credit markets on our ability to meet our net funding and investing requirements over the next twelve months and we believe that a combination of cash-on-hand, cash generated from operating activities and availability under our revolving credit facilities should provide us with sufficient liquidity. However, continued market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our services, such as lower levels of advertising.  These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.  Although we
currently believe that amounts available under our revolving credit facilities will be available when, and if needed, we can provide no assurance that access to such funds will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. The obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facilities are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others.  We continue to evaluate options to manage our liquidity and capital structure.
 
The following table summarizes our outstanding debt, including capital lease obligations, as well as interest expense and capital expenditures as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2009:
 
 
Debt Financing Agreements
 
The Company has an $800,000 senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility"), which consists of a $500,000 term A loan facility and a $300,000 revolving credit facility.  The term A loan facility matures June 30, 2013 and the revolving credit facility matures June 30, 2012.  The Credit Facility allows us to utilize up to $50,000 of the revolving credit facility for letters of credit and up to $5,000 for a swing loan.  Further, the Credit Facility provides for an incremental facility of up to $925,000, provided that it be for a minimum amount of $100,000.  On June 3, 2008, we entered into an Incremental Revolver Supplement ("Incremental Revolver") whereby we received commitments from lenders in the amount of $280,000.  The interest rate under the Incremental Revolver is 2.0% over the Eurodollar rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and 1.0% over the Base Rate for Base Rate borrowings (as defined in the Incremental Revolver).  The Incremental Revolver matures on June 30, 2012 and the terms and conditions of the Incremental Revolver are no more restrictive than those of our Credit Facility.  Borrowings under the Incremental Revolver may be repaid without penalty at any time.  There were no borrowings outstanding under the Incremental Revolver facility at June 30, 2009.
 
Outstanding borrowings under our term A loan facility and the original revolving credit facility were $462,500 and $185,000, respectively, at June 30, 2009.  At June 30, 2009, the weighted average interest rate on both the term A loan facility and amounts drawn under the original revolving credit facility was 1.32%.  As of June 30, 2009, $185,000 of the revolving credit facility was drawn and we had $395,000 in total undrawn revolver commitments consisting of $115,000 under our original revolver and $280,000 under the Incremental Revolver, which undrawn amounts were available to be drawn to meet our net funding and investment requirements.  We are obligated to pay fees of 0.375% per annum on any undrawn revolver commitment.
Borrowings under the Credit Facility are our direct obligations which are guaranteed jointly and severally by substantially all of our subsidiaries and by Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC, our direct parent.  Such borrowings are secured by the pledge of our stock and the stock of substantially all of our subsidiaries and all of our other assets and the assets of substantially all of our subsidiaries (subject to certain limited exceptions).  The term A loan requires quarterly repayments of $6,250 in 2009 and 2010, $12,500 in 2011 and 2012, and $162,500 on March 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013, the maturity of the term A loan.  Any amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facilities are due at maturity on June 30, 2012.
 
The Credit Facility contains various financial and other covenants.  As defined in the Credit Facility, the financial covenants consist of (i) a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to total interest expense for each quarter of 1.75 to 1, (ii) a maximum cash flow ratio of total indebtedness to operating cash flow of 6.25 to 1, and (iii) a maximum senior secured leverage ratio of senior secured debt to operating cash flow of 5.50 to 1.  Additional covenants include restrictions on indebtedness, guarantees, liens, investments, dividends and distributions and transactions with affiliates.
 
We were in compliance with all of our financial covenants under our Credit Facility and our Incremental Revolver as of June 30, 2009.
 
As of June 30, 2009, we also have outstanding $300,000 principal amount of 8 3/4% senior notes
due September 1, 2012 and
$325,000 principal amount of 10 3/8% senior subordinated notes
due September 1, 2014
. 
These notes are guaranteed by substantially all of our subsidiaries.
 
The indentures under which the senior notes and the senior subordinated notes were issued contain various other covenants, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the Credit Facility.
 
Future access to the debt markets and the cost of any future debt issuances are also influenced by our credit ratings, which are provided by Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") and Standard & Poor's.  Key factors in the assessment of our credit ratings include our free cash flow generating capacity, fiscal strategy, enterprise value and industry risk.  Our corporate credit rating is Ba2 by Moody's with a stable outlook and BB by Standard & Poor's with a negative outlook.  Any future downgrade to our credit ratings by either rating agency could increase the interest rate on future debt issuances and could adversely impact our ability to raise additional funds.
 
In November 2008, we entered into interest rate swap contracts with a notional amount of $450,000 to effectively fix borrowing rates on a substantial portion of our floating rate debt.  These contracts are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
 
The table below summarizes certain terms of these interest rate swap contracts as of June 30, 2009:
 
*
                              
Represents the floating rate received under our interest rate swap contracts at June 30, 2009 and does not represent the rates to be received on future payments.
 
As a result of the interest rate swap transactions, the interest rate paid on approximately 84% of our debt (excluding capital leases) as of June 30, 2009 is effectively fixed (49% being fixed rate obligations and 35% is effectively fixed through utilization of these interest rate swap contracts).
 
Interest Rate Risk
 
To manage interest rate risk, we have entered into interest rate swap contracts to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable interest rates.  Such contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates.  We do not enter into interest rate swap contracts for speculative or trading purposes and have only entered into transactions with counterparties that are rated investment grade.  We monitor the financial institutions that are counterparties to our interest rate swap contracts and we diversify our swap contracts among various counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution.
 
Interest rate risk is primarily a result of exposures to changes in the level, slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates and credit spreads.
 
As discussed above, we have entered into interest rate swap contracts.  All such contracts are carried at their fair values on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, with changes in value reflected in the condensed consolidated statement of income.
 
Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted
 
To be Adopted in the Third Quarter of 2009
 
In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 168, The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, a replacement of FASB Statement No. 162 ("Statement No. 168"), which establishes the FASB Accounting Standards Codification as the source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP").  Statement No. 168 explicitly recognizes rules and interpretive releases of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under federal securities laws as authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants.  The Company does not expect the adoption of Statement No.168 to have a material effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.


