FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20090311164523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On March 5, 2009, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the Company) adopted new forms of agreements for awards of stock options, restricted stock and long-term cash incentives and made awards under those agreements to the following named executive officers and directors of the Company:   Charles F. Dolan, James L. Dolan, Hank J. Ratner, Thomas M. Rutledge, Michael P. Huseby, Patrick F. Dolan, Thomas C. Dolan and Brian G. Sweeney. These awards and the forms of award agreements are filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
       
 
(d)
99.1      Form of Restricted Shares Agreement (March 5, 2009)
99.2      Form of Option Agreement (March 5, 2009)
99.3      Form of Performance Award Agreement (March 5, 2009)
99.4      Form of Restricted Shares Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Charles Dolan.
99.5      Form of Option Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Charles Dolan.
99.6      Form of Performance Award Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Charles Dolan.
99.7      Form of Restricted Shares Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and James Dolan.
99.8      Form of Option Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and James Dolan.
99.9      Form of Performance Award Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and James Dolan.
99.10    Form of Restricted Shares Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Hank Ratner.
99.11    Form of Option Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Hank Ratner.
99.12    Form of Performance Award Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Hank Ratner.
99.13    Form of Restricted Shares Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Thomas Rutledge.
99.14    Form of Option Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Thomas Rutledge.
99.15    Form of Performance Award Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Thomas Rutledge
 
99.16    Form of Restricted Shares Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Michael Huseby.
99.17    Form of Option Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Michael Huseby.
99.18    Form of Performance Award Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Michael Huseby.
99.19    Form of Restricted Shares Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Patrick Dolan.
99.20    Form of Performance Award Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Patrick Dolan.
99.21    Form of Restricted Shares Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Thomas Dolan.
99.22    Form of Performance Award Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Thomas Dolan.
99.23    Form of Restricted Shares Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Brian Sweeney.
99.24    Form of Performance Award Agreement, dated as of March 9, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Brian Sweeney.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 11, 2009
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 11, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
[Full Name of Employee]   [Date]   Dear [First Name]:  
Pursuant to the Company's 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Section 11, the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "") to receive _____ restricted shares ("") of NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("") effective as of ________________ (the "").
Plan
Committee
Company
Restricted Shares
Common Shares
Grant Date
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Restricted Shares are subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.     . Subject to Sections 2 and 3, none of your Restricted Shares will vest and you will forfeit all of them if you do not remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Grant Date through the _____ anniversary of the Grant Date.
Vesting
2.     . If your employment is terminated as a result of your death, all of the Restricted Shares will vest as of the termination date.
Accelerated Vesting in the Event of Death
3.     . As set forth in attached hereto, your entitlement to Restricted Shares may be affected in the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going-private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto).
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction
Annex 1
Annex 1
4.     . You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Restricted Shares, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions
5.     . You have full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Shares. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, all ordinary (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) cash dividends and distributions paid on your Restricted Shares will be retained by the Company for your account until your Restricted Shares vest and such dividends and distributions will be paid to you (without interest) when your Restricted Shares vest. Such dividends, to the extent retained, shall revert back to the Company if for any reason the Restricted Share upon which such dividends were paid reverts back to the Company.
Right to Vote and Receive Dividends
6.     . If you wish to make an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to recognize income with respect to the Restricted Shares before they become vested, you must file a Section 83(b) election with the Internal Revenue Service of the Grant Date and provide a copy of that filing to the Company.
Section 83(b) Election
within thirty (30) days
You are strongly encouraged to seek the advice of a tax consultant regarding the advisability of making a Section 83(b) election. You should note that any taxes you pay as a result of your Section 83(b) election cannot be recovered if your
 
A sample Form of Election under Section 83(b) is available upon request from the Company's Tax Department.
Restricted Shares are forfeited or decline in value. It is your sole responsibility to timely file an election under Section 83(b). You must notify the Company within ten (10) days of filing any such election.
7.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Restricted Shares. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the Restricted Shares, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
8.     . It is the Company's intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A"), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
Section 409A
9.     . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, delivery of the Restricted Shares will be by book-entry credit to an account in your name that the Company has established at a custody agent (the ""). The Company's transfer agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. shall act as the custodian of the Restricted Shares; , the Company may in its sole discretion appoint another custodian to replace Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. On the date your Restricted Shares vest, if you have complied with your obligations under this Agreement and that your tax obligations with respect to the vested Restricted Shares are appropriately satisfied, we will instruct the custodian to electronically transfer your Common Shares to a brokerage or other account on your behalf (or make such other arrangements for the delivery of the Common Shares to you as we reasonably determine).
Delivery
custodian
however
provided
10.     . You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Right of Offset
11.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
 
 
12.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
13.     . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 3 and Annex 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be "terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event." Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment
14.     . The Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
Restricted Shares Subject to the Plan
15.     . Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Restricted Shares covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Restricted Shares covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
16.     . The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
17.     . This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
18.     . You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
Jurisdiction and Venue
19.     . You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the Common Shares are publicly-traded securities and (ii) Common Shares may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
Securities Law Acknowledgments
 
 
20.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
21.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
22.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Restricted Shares covered hereby shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
23.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
No Right to Continued Employment
24.     . The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings
25.     . Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Grant Date.
Effective Date
26.     . Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures
 
 
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
 
 
 
In the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company or a "going private transaction," as defined below, your entitlement to Restricted Shares shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the "surviving entity," as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of your unvested Restricted Shares multiplied by (ii) the "offer price per share," the "acquisition price per share" or the "merger price per share," each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you an award of shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms and with a value equivalent to your unvested Restricted Shares which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Paragraph 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Paragraph 1 or 2 shall become payable to you at the earlier of (a) the date on which your Restricted Shares are scheduled to vest (provided that you remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates through such date), or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for "good reason," as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in the event that your rights in the Restricted Shares are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an en-    
Change of Control
ity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
"" means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a "") which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Company's cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Paragraph 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Paragraph 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of "" the Company's New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Surviving entity
parent entity
substantially all
"" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going private transaction
"" means
Good reason
a.     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or
   
material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
b.     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
c.     the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
d.     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Paragraph 1.
"" shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per Share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Offer price per share
Offer
"" shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ""), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share
Merger
"" shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Company's voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
Acquisition price per share
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
[Full Name of Employee]
[Date]   Dear [First Name]:  
Pursuant to the Companys 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the Plan), on _______________ (the Effective Date) you were selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Paragraph 14, the Committee) of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the Company) to receive nonqualified stock options (the Options) to purchase _____ shares of NY Group Class A Common Stock of the Company (the Class A Common Stock) at a price of $____ per share.
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this 
Agreement
) have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Options are granted subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
1.     
Vesting
. If you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or any Affiliate through the respective dates below, the Options will become exercisable in accordance with the following schedule:
 
2.     
Exercise
. You may exercise the Options that become vested and exercisable by giving written notice to the Secretary of the Company specifying the number of shares of Class A Common Stock as to which the Options are being exercised (the 
Exercise Notice
), together with a copy of this Agreement. Unless the Company chooses to settle such exercise in cash, shares of Class A Common Stock, or a combination thereof pursuant to Paragraph 3, you will be required to deliver to the Company within such time period as the Company may require, payment in full of the exercise price due on account of such exercise. You may pay the exercise price by cash, by certified check, by surrendering shares of Class A Common Stock or by any combination thereof. Class A Common Stock used to pay the exercise price pursuant to this Paragraph 2 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day preceding the date of exercise.
3.     
Option Spread
. Upon receipt of the Exercise Notice, the Company may elect, in lieu of issuing shares of Class A Common Stock, to settle the exercise covered by such notice by paying you an amount equal to the product obtained by multiplying (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Class A Common Stock on the date of exercise over the per share exercise price of the Options (the 
Option Spread
) by (ii) the number of shares of Class A Common Stock specified in the Exercise Notice. The amount payable to you in these circumstances may be paid by the Company
 
either in cash or in shares of Class A Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the Option Spread, or a combination thereof, as the Company shall determine. Class A Common Stock used to pay the Option Spread pursuant to this Paragraph 3 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day the Exercise Notice is received by the Company.
4.     
Expiration
. The Options will terminate automatically and without further notice on _______________, or at any of the following dates, if earlier:
(A)     with respect to those Options which are then unexercisable, the date upon which you cease to be an employee of the Company or an Affiliate for any reason unless as a result of your death in which case all of your Options granted under this Agreement shall become immediately exercisable;
(B)     with respect to those Options which are then exercisable, ninety (90) days following the date upon which you terminate your employment for any reason (other than a termination by reason of your Disability or Retirement, or a termination by you in accordance with Section 3(b)(ii) or Section 3(b)(iii) of Appendix 1 to this Agreement); and
(C)     with respect to all your then outstanding Options, whether exercisable or unexercisable, the date upon which your employment is terminated for Cause.
For the avoidance of doubt, Section 4(B) above shall not apply to any termination of your employment by the Company.
For purposes of this Agreement, 
Cause
 means, as determined by the Committee, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of
nolo contendere
, or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
For purposes of this Agreement,  means your inability to perform for six (6) continuous months substantially all the essential duties of your occupation, as determined by the Committee.
Disability
For purposes of this Agreement,  means the voluntary termination by you of your employment with the Company and its Affiliates at such time as (i) you have attained at least the age of fifty-five (55) and (ii) you have been employed by the Company or its Affiliates for at least five (5) years,
Retirement
provided
that
the Company may nevertheless decide, in its sole discretion, not to treat your termination of employment as a Retirement hereunder. Treatment of your termination of employment as a Retirement hereunder shall be further subject to your execution (and the effectiveness) of a retirement agreement to the Companys satisfaction, including, without limitation (to the extent desired by the Company), non-compete, non-
 
disparagement, non-solicitation, confidentiality and further cooperation obligations/restrictions on you as well as a general release by you of the Company and its Affiliates. The above definition of Retirement is solely for purposes of this Agreement and shall not, in any way, create or imply any obligations of the Company or any of its Affiliates (under any other agreement or otherwise) with respect to any such termination of your employment.
Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Paragraph 4, in the event of your death during the period that your Options are exercisable, whether death occurs before or after you cease employment, the Options that are exercisable at the time of your death shall remain exercisable by your estate or beneficiary until the later of the first (1st) anniversary of your death and _______________.
5.     
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction
. As set forth in
Appendix 1
attached hereto, the Options may be affected in the event of a Change of Control or a going private transaction (each as defined in
Appendix 1
attached hereto) of the Company.
6.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of exercising the Options and receiving shares of Class A Common Stock and cash. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the exercise of the Options, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
7.     
Section 409A
. It is the Companys intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute non-qualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code (Section 409A) and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a separation from service as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a specified employee (within the meaning of Section 409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
8.     
Transfer Restrictions
. You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Options, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
 
9.     
Non-Qualification as ISO
. The Options are not intended to qualify as incentive stock options within the meaning of Section 422A of the Code.
10.     
Securities Law Acknowledgments
. You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the shares of Class A Common Stock are publicly-traded securities and (ii) the shares of Class A Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Options may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
11.     
Governing Law
. This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects shall be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
12,     
Jurisdiction and Venue
. You hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States of America located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You hereby agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in any manner as may be permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof.
13.     
Right of Offset
. You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute non-qualified deferred compensation pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
14.     
The Committee
. For purposes of this Agreement, the term Committee means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
15.     
Committee Discretion
. The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
16.     
Amendment
. The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 5 and Appendix 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
 
17.     
Options Subject to the Plan
. The Options granted by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
18.     . Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced, such modification, renewal or replacement shall not extend the time any Options may be exercised beyond the time provided herein or in such original employment agreement), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Options covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Options covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
provided that
19.     
Successors and Assigns
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
20.     
Waiver
. No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
21.     
Severability
. The terms or conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
22.     
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
. By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that all shares of Class A Common Stock and cash received upon each exercise of the Options shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as wages or salary in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares of Class A Common Stock and cash be exempt from inclusion in wages or salary for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
23.     
No Right to Continued Employment
. Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
 
24.     
Headings
. The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
25.     
Effective Date
. Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
26.     . Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures
 
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
 
In the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going private transaction, as defined below, your entitlement to exercise the Options shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the surviving entity, as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, to the extent that the Options have not been exercised and have not expired (the 
Outstanding Options
), no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of common shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options multiplied by (ii) the excess of (x) the offer price per share, the acquisition price per share or the merger price per share, each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable, over (y) the exercise price of the shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options, or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you in substitution for your Outstanding Options an award of options for shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms with a value equivalent to the Outstanding Options and which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Section 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Section 1 or 2 shall become payable to you, and the substitute options of the surviving entity provided in Section 1 will become exercisable (1) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were not exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, at the earlier of (a) the date on which the Outstanding Options would otherwise have become exercisable hereunder had they continued in effect, or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for good reason, as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in the event that your rights in the Outstanding Options are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1, or (2) with respect to
 
the Outstanding Options that were exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, the substitute options shall become exercisable immediately and the cash awards shall become payable promptly. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
Change of Control means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. New York City Metropolitan Area means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
Surviving entity means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a parent entity) which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Companys cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Section 1(B) shall not be
 
applicable. Ownership of substantially all the Companys New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Going private transaction means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Good reason means
(i)     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Effective Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
(ii)     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
(iii)     the Companys requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
(iv)     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Section 1.
Offer price per share shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Offer
Merger price per share shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the
Merger
 
highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Acquisition price per share shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Companys voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
   

Exhibit 99.3
[Full Name of Employee]
 
[Date]
 
Dear [First Name]:
Pursuant to the 2006 Cash Incentive Plan (the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors to receive a contingent cash award (the "") effective as of _______________ (the "").
Plan
Company
Award
Effective Date
Capitalized terms used, but not defined, in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.     . In accordance with the terms of this Performance Award Agreement, the target amount of your contingent Award is $__________________ (the ""), which may be increased or decreased to the extent the performance objectives set forth on hereto (the "") have been attained in respect of the period from _______________ through _______________ (the ""). The Award, calculated in accordance with Annex 1 attached hereto, will become payable to you upon the date on which the Committee (as defined in Section 10 below) determines the Company's performance against the Objectives (the "") , that you have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through the Payment Date.
Amount and Payment of Award
Target Award
Annex 1
Objectives
Performance Period
Payment Date
provided
2.     . If, on the Payment Date, you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates for any reason, other than as a result of your death, then you will automatically forfeit all of your rights and interest in the Award regardless of whether the Objectives are attained.
Termination of Employment
3.     . If, prior to the end of the Performance Period, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive, promptly (and in any event within 30 days) following the date of such termination, payment of the Target Award prorated for the number of completed months of your employment during the Performance Period prior to such termination. If after the end of the Performance Period but prior to the Payment Date, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive on the Payment Date the Award, if any, to which you would have been entitled on the Payment Date had your employment not been so terminated.
Death
4.     .
Going Private Transaction or Change in Control
a.     Going Private Transaction. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if at any time a Going Private Transaction (as defined below) occurs and
   
immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, the Target Award shall become payable to you whether or not the Objectives have been attained at the earlier of (i) _______________, , that you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through such date or (ii) the date subsequent to the Going Private Transaction on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (A) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause (as defined below) or (B) by you for Good Reason (as defined below). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you become entitled to payment of the Target Award by virtue of a termination in accordance with (ii)(A) or (ii)(B) of this Section 4(a) and are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 409A of the IRC"), the Target Award shall be paid to you on the earlier of: (i) _______________, (ii) the date that is six months from your date of employment termination and (iii) any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC. In the event of such a determination, the Company shall promptly following the date of your employment termination set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to the previous sentence); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of your employment termination.
provided
provided
b.     Change in Control. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement but subject to the subsections of this Section 4(b), if at any time a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, you will be entitled to the payment of the Target Award whether or not the Objectives have been attained.
i.     If the actual Change of Control:
(A)     is a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC or payment of the Award promptly upon such event is otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the Award), then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company promptly following the Change of Control; or
(B)     is not a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC and payment of the Award promptly upon such event is not otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC, then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company (together with interest thereon pursuant to Section 4(b)(ii) below) on the earliest to occur of:
(1)     any subsequent date on which you are no longer employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates for any reason other than termination of your employment by one of such entities for Cause (provided that if you are determined by the
   
Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the IRC, six months from such date);
(2)     any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC; or
(3)     _______________.
ii.     Upon any Change of Control, to the extent any amounts are due to be paid to you at a later date pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above, the Company shall promptly following the Change of Control set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of the Change of Control and shall adjust annually based on the average of such rate for the ten business days prior to each anniversary of the Change of Control.
provided
If and to the extent that any payment is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the IRC and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then such payment shall be made to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A of the IRC under applicable regulations.
under this Section 4
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an Affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (i) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined below) or (ii) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (i) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants.
Change of Control
   
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going Private Transaction
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means: (a) without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Going Private Transaction including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties; (b) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you; (c) the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to the Going Private Transaction except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or (d) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor.
Good Reason
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
5.     . Except for a right which has accrued to receive a payment on account of the Award, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect on the Payment Date.
Termination
6.     . You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Award other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions
7.     . The Plan will at all times be unfunded and, except as set forth in Section 4(b) of this Agreement, no provision will at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company or any of its Affiliates for payment of any benefits under the Plan, including, without limitation, those covered by this Agreement. Your right or that of your estate to receive payments under this Agreement shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, including any rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b). Neither you nor your estate shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company other than the assets held by the rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b).
Unfunded Obligation
8.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Award. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
   
and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents. If, in connection with the Award, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
9.     You hereby agree that if the Company shall owe you any amount that does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A of the IRC (the "") under this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset against the Company-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any amounts that you may owe to the Company or its Affiliates of whatever nature.
Right of Offset.
Company-Owed Amount
10.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
Committee
11.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
12.     . The Committee reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend or revise the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee may not make any such amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial) without your consent. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment
13.     . The Award and all other amounts payable hereunder are subject to the Plan.
Award Subject to the Plan
14.     . Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Award covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Award covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
15.     . The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
16.     . This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
17.     . You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District
Jurisdiction and Venue
   
and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
18.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
19.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
20.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Award shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that the Award shall be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
21.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
No Right to Continued Employment
22.     . The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings
23.     . Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
Effective Date
24.     . Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures
 
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
 
     

Exhibit 99.4
Charles Dolan
March 9, 2009
Dear Charles:
Pursuant to the Company's 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Section 11, the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "") to receive 165,700 restricted shares ("") of NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Committee
Company
Restricted Shares
Common Shares
Grant Date
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Restricted Shares are subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.      Subject to Sections 2 and 3, none of your Restricted Shares will vest and you will forfeit all of them if you do not remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Grant Date through the third anniversary of the Grant Date.
Vesting.
2.     If your employment is terminated as a result of your death, all of the Restricted Shares will vest as of the termination date.
Accelerated Vesting in the Event of Death.
3.      As set forth in attached hereto, your entitlement to Restricted Shares may be affected in the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going-private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto).
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction.
Annex 1
Annex 1
4.      You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Restricted Shares, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions.
5.      You have full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Shares. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, all ordinary (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) cash dividends and distributions paid on your Restricted Shares will be retained by the Company for your account until your Restricted Shares vest and such dividends and distributions will be paid to you (without interest) when your Restricted Shares vest. Such dividends, to the extent retained, shall revert back to the Company if for any reason the Restricted Share upon which such dividends were paid reverts back to the Company.
Right to Vote and Receive Dividends.
6.     . If you wish to make an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to recognize income with respect to the Restricted Shares before they become vested, you must file a Section 83(b) election with the Internal Revenue Service of the Grant Date and provide a copy of that filing to the Company.
Section 83(b) Election
within thirty (30) days
You are strongly encouraged to seek the advice of a tax consultant regarding the advisability of making a Section 83(b) election. You should note that any  
A sample Form of Election under Section 83(b) is available upon request from the Company's Tax Department.
taxes you pay as a result of your Section 83(b) election cannot be recovered if your Restricted Shares are forfeited or decline in value. It is your sole responsibility to timely file an election under Section 83(b). You must notify the Company within ten (10) days of filing any such election.
7.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Restricted Shares. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the Restricted Shares, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
8.     It is the Company's intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A"), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
Section 409A.
9.      Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, delivery of the Restricted Shares will be by book-entry credit to an account in your name that the Company has established at a custody agent (the ""). The Company's transfer agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. shall act as the custodian of the Restricted Shares; , the Company may in its sole discretion appoint another custodian to replace Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. On the date your Restricted Shares vest, if you have complied with your obligations under this Agreement and that your tax obligations with respect to the vested Restricted Shares are appropriately satisfied, we will instruct the custodian to electronically transfer your Common Shares to a brokerage or other account on your behalf (or make such other arrangements for the delivery of the Common Shares to you as we reasonably determine).
Delivery.
custodian
however
provided
10.     . You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Right of Offset
11.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
12.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
13.     The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 3 and Annex 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be "terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event." Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment.
14.      The Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
Restricted Shares Subject to the Plan.
15.      Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Restricted Shares covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Restricted Shares covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement.
16.      The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
17.     This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
18.     You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
Jurisdiction and Venue.
19.     . You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the Common Shares are publicly-traded securities and (ii) Common Shares may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under
Securities Law Acknowledgments
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
20.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
21.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
22.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Restricted Shares covered hereby shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
23.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
No Right to Continued Employment
24.      The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings.
25.      Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Grant Date.
Effective Date.
26.     Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures.
 
 
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   
In the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company or a "going private transaction," as defined below, your entitlement to Restricted Shares shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the "surviving entity," as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of your unvested Restricted Shares multiplied by (ii) the "offer price per share," the "acquisition price per share" or the "merger price per share," each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you an award of shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms and with a value equivalent to your unvested Restricted Shares which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Paragraph 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Paragraph 1 or 2 shall become payable to you at the earlier of (a) the date on which your Restricted Shares are scheduled to vest (provided that you remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates through such date), or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for "good reason," as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in the event that your rights in the Restricted Shares are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity
Change of Control
or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
 
"" means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a "") which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Company's cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Paragraph 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Paragraph 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of "" the Company's New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Surviving entity
parent entity
substantially all
 
"" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going private transaction
 "" means
Good reason
 
a.     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or
material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
b.     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
c.     the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
d.     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Paragraph 1.
"" shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per Share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Offer price per share
Offer
 
"" shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ""), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share
Merger
 
"" shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Company's voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
Acquisition price per share
   

Exhibit 99.5
Charles Dolan March 9, 2009 Dear Charles:
Pursuant to the Companys 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ), on March 5, 2009 (the ) you were selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Paragraph 14, the ) of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ) to receive nonqualified stock options (the ) to purchase 884,900 shares of NY Group Class A Common Stock of the Company (the ) at a price of $10.24 per share.
Plan
Effective Date
Committee
Company
Options
Class A Common Stock
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this ) have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Options are granted subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
. If you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or any Affiliate through the respective dates below, the Options will become exercisable in accordance with the following schedule:
1.     
Vesting
 
. You may exercise the Options that become vested and exercisable by giving written notice to the Secretary of the Company specifying the number of shares of Class A Common Stock as to which the Options are being exercised (the ), together with a copy of this Agreement. Unless the Company chooses to settle such exercise in cash, shares of Class A Common Stock, or a combination thereof pursuant to Paragraph 3, you will be required to deliver to the Company within such time period as the Company may require, payment in full of the exercise price due on account of such exercise. You may pay the exercise price by cash, by certified check, by surrendering shares of Class A Common Stock or by any combination thereof. Class A Common Stock used to pay the exercise price pursuant to this Paragraph 2 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day preceding the date of exercise.
2.     
Exercise
Exercise Notice
. Upon receipt of the Exercise Notice, the Company may elect, in lieu of issuing shares of Class A Common Stock, to settle the exercise covered by such notice by paying you an amount equal to the product obtained by
3.     
Option Spread
multiplying (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Class A Common Stock on the date of exercise over the per share exercise price of the Options (the ) by (ii) the number of shares of Class A Common Stock specified in the Exercise Notice. The amount payable to you in these circumstances may be paid by the Company either in cash or in shares of Class A Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the Option Spread, or a combination thereof, as the Company shall determine. Class A Common Stock used to pay the Option Spread pursuant to this Paragraph 3 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day the Exercise Notice is received by the Company.
Option Spread
. The Options will terminate automatically and without further notice on September 5, 2014, or at any of the following dates, if earlier:
4.     
Expiration
 
For the avoidance of doubt, Section 4(B) above shall not apply to any termination of your employment by the Company.
For purposes of this Agreement,  means, as determined by the Committee, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement,  means your inability to perform for six (6) continuous months substantially all the essential duties of your occupation, as determined by the Committee.
Disability
For purposes of this Agreement,  means the voluntary termination by you of your employment with the Company and its Affiliates at such time as (i) you have attained at least the age of fifty-five (55) and (ii) you have been employed
Retirement
by the Company or its Affiliates for at least five (5) years, that the Company may nevertheless decide, in its sole discretion, not to treat your termination of employment as a Retirement hereunder. Treatment of your termination of employment as a Retirement hereunder shall be further subject to your execution (and the effectiveness) of a retirement agreement to the Companys satisfaction, including, without limitation (to the extent desired by the Company), non-compete, non-disparagement, non-solicitation, confidentiality and further cooperation obligations/restrictions on you as well as a general release by you of the Company and its Affiliates. The above definition of Retirement is solely for purposes of this Agreement and shall not, in any way, create or imply any obligations of the Company or any of its Affiliates (under any other agreement or otherwise) with respect to any such termination of your employment.
provided
Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Paragraph 4, in the event of your death during the period that your Options are exercisable, whether death occurs before or after you cease employment, the Options that are exercisable at the time of your death shall remain exercisable by your estate or beneficiary until the later of the first (1st) anniversary of your death and September 5, 2014.
. As set forth in attached hereto, the Options may be affected in the event of a Change of Control or a going private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto) of the Company.
5.     
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction
Appendix 1
Appendix 1
. You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of exercising the Options and receiving shares of Class A Common Stock and cash. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
6.     
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the exercise of the Options, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
It is the Companys intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute non-qualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code (Section 409A) and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a separation from service as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a specified employee (within the meaning of Section
7.     
Section 409A.
409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
. You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Options, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
8.     
Transfer Restrictions
. The Options are not intended to qualify as incentive stock options within the meaning of Section 422A of the Code.
9.     
Non-Qualification as ISO
. You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the shares of Class A Common Stock are publicly-traded securities and (ii) the shares of Class A Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Options may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
10.     
Securities Law Acknowledgments
. This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects shall be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
11.     
Governing Law
. You hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States of America located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You hereby agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in any manner as may be permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof.
12.     
Jurisdiction and Venue
. You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute non-qualified deferred compensation pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
13.     
Right of Offset
. For purposes of this Agreement, the term Committee means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
14.     
The Committee
. The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
15.     
Committee Discretion
. The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 5 and Appendix 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
16.     
Amendment
. The Options granted by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
17.     
Options Subject to the Plan
. Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced, such modification, renewal or replacement shall not extend the time any Options may be exercised beyond the time provided herein or in such original employment agreement), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Options covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Options covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
18.     
Entire Agreement
provided that
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
19.     
Successors and Assigns
. No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
20.     
Waiver
. The terms or conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
21.     
Severability
. By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that all shares of Class A Common Stock and cash received upon each exercise of the Options shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as wages or salary in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In
22.     
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares of Class A Common Stock and cash be exempt from inclusion in wages or salary for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
. Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
23.     
No Right to Continued Employment
. The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
24.     
Headings
. Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
25.     
Effective Date
. Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
26.     
Signatures
 
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
 
In the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going private transaction, as defined below, your entitlement to exercise the Options shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the surviving entity, as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, to the extent that the Options have not been exercised and have not expired (the ), no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of common shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options multiplied by (ii) the excess of (x) the offer price per share, the acquisition price per share or the merger price per share, each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable, over (y) the exercise price of the shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options, or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you in substitution for your Outstanding Options an award of options for shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms with a value equivalent to the Outstanding Options and which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
Outstanding Options
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Section 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Section 1 or 2 shall become payable to you, and the substitute options of the surviving entity provided in Section 1 will become exercisable (1) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were not exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, at the earlier of (a) the date on which the Outstanding Options would otherwise have become exercisable hereunder had they continued in effect, or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for good reason, as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in
the event that your rights in the Outstanding Options are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1, or (2) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, the substitute options shall become exercisable immediately and the cash awards shall become payable promptly. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
Change of Control means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. New York City Metropolitan Area means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
Surviving entity means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a parent entity) which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Companys cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such
transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Section 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of substantially all the Companys New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Going private transaction means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Good reason means
(i)     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Effective Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
(ii)     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
(iii)     the Companys requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
(iv)     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Section 1.
Offer price per share shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity
Offer
making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger
Acquisition price per share shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Companys voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
 
 

Exhibit 99.6
Charles Dolan
March 9, 2009
Dear Charles:
Pursuant to the 2006 Cash Incentive Plan (the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors to receive a contingent cash award (the "") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Company
Award
Effective Date
Capitalized terms used, but not defined, in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
. In accordance with the terms of this Performance Award Agreement, the target amount of your contingent Award is $2,190,000 (the ""), which may be increased or decreased to the extent the performance objectives set forth on hereto (the "") have been attained in respect of the period from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 (the ""). The Award, calculated in accordance with Annex 1 attached hereto, will become payable to you upon the date on which the Committee (as defined in Section 10 below) determines the Company's performance against the Objectives (the "") , that you have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through the Payment Date.
1.     
Amount and Payment of Award
Target Award
Annex 1
Objectives
Performance Period
Payment Date
provided
. If, on the Payment Date, you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates for any reason, other than as a result of your death, then you will automatically forfeit all of your rights and interest in the Award regardless of whether the Objectives are attained.
2.     
Termination of Employment
. If, prior to the end of the Performance Period, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive, promptly (and in any event within 30 days) following the date of such termination, payment of the Target Award prorated for the number of completed months of your employment during the Performance Period prior to such termination. If after the end of the Performance Period but prior to the Payment Date, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive on the Payment Date the Award, if any, to which you would have been entitled on the Payment Date had your employment not been so terminated.  
3.     
Death
.
4.     
Going Private Transaction or Change in Control
a.     Going Private Transaction. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if at any time a Going Private Transaction (as defined below) occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, the Target Award shall become payable to you whether or not the Objectives have been attained at the earlier of (i) January 1, 2012, , that you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through such date or (ii) the date subsequent to the Going Private Transaction on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (A) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause (as defined below) or (B) by you for Good Reason (as defined below). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you become entitled to payment of the Target Award by virtue of a termination in accordance with (ii)(A) or (ii)(B) of this Section 4(a) and are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 409A of the IRC"), the Target Award shall be paid to you on the earlier of: (i) January 1, 2012, (ii) the date that is six months from your date of employment termination and (iii) any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC. In the event of such a determination, the Company shall promptly following the date of your employment termination set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to the previous sentence); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of your employment termination.
provided
provided
b.     Change in Control. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement but subject to the subsections of this Section 4(b), if at any time a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, you will be entitled to the payment of the Target Award whether or not the Objectives have been attained.
i.     If the actual Change of Control:
(A)     is a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC or payment of the Award promptly upon such event is otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the Award), then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company promptly following the Change of Control; or
(B)     is not a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC and payment of the Award promptly upon such event is not otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC, then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company (together with interest thereon pursuant to Section 4(b)(ii) below) on the earliest to occur of:
(1)     any subsequent date on which you are no longer employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates for any reason other than termination of your employment by one of such entities for Cause (provided that if you are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the IRC, six months from such date);
(2)     any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC; or
(3)     January 1, 2012.
ii.     Upon any Change of Control, to the extent any amounts are due to be paid to you at a later date pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above, the Company shall promptly following the Change of Control set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of the Change of Control and shall adjust annually based on the average of such rate for the ten business days prior to each anniversary of the Change of Control.
provided
If and to the extent that any payment is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the IRC and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then such payment shall be made to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A of the IRC under applicable regulations.
under this Section 4
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an Affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (i) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined below) or (ii) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (i) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants
Change of Control
of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants.
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going Private Transaction
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means: (a) without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Going Private Transaction including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties; (b) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you; (c) the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to the Going Private Transaction except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or (d) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor.
Good Reason
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
. Except for a right which has accrued to receive a payment on account of the Award, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect on the Payment Date.
5.     
Termination
. You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Award other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
6.     
Transfer Restrictions
. The Plan will at all times be unfunded and, except as set forth in Section 4(b) of this Agreement, no provision will at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company or any of its Affiliates for payment of any benefits under the Plan, including, without limitation, those covered by this Agreement. Your right or that of your estate to receive payments under this Agreement shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, including any rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b). Neither you nor your estate shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company other than the assets held by the rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b).
7.     
Unfunded Obligation
. You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Award. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents. If, in connection with the Award, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
8.     
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
You hereby agree that if the Company shall owe you any amount that does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A of the IRC (the "") under this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset against the Company-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any amounts that you may owe to the Company or its Affiliates of whatever nature.
9.     
Right of Offset.
Company-Owed Amount
. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
10.     
The Committee
Committee
. The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
11.     
Committee Discretion
. The Committee reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend or revise the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee may not make any such amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial) without your consent. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
12.     
Amendment
. The Award and all other amounts payable hereunder are subject to the Plan.
13.     
Award Subject to the Plan
. Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Award covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Award covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
14.     
Entire Agreement
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
15.     
Successors and Assigns
. This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
16.     
Governing Law
. You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
17.     
Jurisdiction and Venue
. No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
18.     
Waiver
. The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
19.     
Severability
. By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Award shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that the Award shall be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
20.     
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
. Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
21.     
No Right to Continued Employment
. The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
22.     
Headings
. Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
23.     
Effective Date
. Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
24.     
Signatures
 
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   

Exhibit 99.7
James Dolan
March 9, 2009
Dear James:
Pursuant to the Company's 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Section 11, the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "") to receive 169,100 restricted shares ("") of NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Committee
Company
Restricted Shares
Common Shares
Grant Date
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Restricted Shares are subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.      Subject to Sections 2 and 3, none of your Restricted Shares will vest and you will forfeit all of them if you do not remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Grant Date through the third anniversary of the Grant Date.
Vesting.
2.     If your employment is terminated as a result of your death, all of the Restricted Shares will vest as of the termination date.
Accelerated Vesting in the Event of Death.
3.      As set forth in attached hereto, your entitlement to Restricted Shares may be affected in the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going-private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto).
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction.
Annex 1
Annex 1
4.      You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Restricted Shares, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions.
5.      You have full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Shares. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, all ordinary (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) cash dividends and distributions paid on your Restricted Shares will be retained by the Company for your account until your Restricted Shares vest and such dividends and distributions will be paid to you (without interest) when your Restricted Shares vest. Such dividends, to the extent retained, shall revert back to the Company if for any reason the Restricted Share upon which such dividends were paid reverts back to the Company.
Right to Vote and Receive Dividends.
6.     . If you wish to make an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to recognize income with respect to the Restricted Shares before they become vested, you must file a Section 83(b) election with the Internal Revenue Service of the Grant Date and provide a copy of that filing to the Company.
Section 83(b) Election
within thirty (30) days
You are strongly encouraged to seek the advice of a tax consultant regarding the advisability of making a Section 83(b) election. You should note that any
A sample Form of Election under Section 83(b) is available upon request from the Company's Tax Department.
taxes you pay as a result of your Section 83(b) election cannot be recovered if your Restricted Shares are forfeited or decline in value. It is your sole responsibility to timely file an election under Section 83(b). You must notify the Company within ten (10) days of filing any such election.
7.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Restricted Shares. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the Restricted Shares, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
8.     It is the Company's intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A"), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
Section 409A.
9.      Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, delivery of the Restricted Shares will be by book-entry credit to an account in your name that the Company has established at a custody agent (the ""). The Company's transfer agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. shall act as the custodian of the Restricted Shares; , the Company may in its sole discretion appoint another custodian to replace Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. On the date your Restricted Shares vest, if you have complied with your obligations under this Agreement and that your tax obligations with respect to the vested Restricted Shares are appropriately satisfied, we will instruct the custodian to electronically transfer your Common Shares to a brokerage or other account on your behalf (or make such other arrangements for the delivery of the Common Shares to you as we reasonably determine).
Delivery.
custodian
however
provided
10.     . You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Right of Offset
11.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
12.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
13.     The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 3 and Annex 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be "terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event." Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment.
14.      The Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
Restricted Shares Subject to the Plan.
15.      Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Restricted Shares covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Restricted Shares covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement.
16.      The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
17.     This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
18.     You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
Jurisdiction and Venue.
19.     . You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the Common Shares are publicly-traded securities and (ii) Common Shares may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under
Securities Law Acknowledgments
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
20.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
21.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
22.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Restricted Shares covered hereby shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
23.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
No Right to Continued Employment
24.      The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings.
25.      Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Grant Date.
Effective Date.
26.     Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures.
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   
In the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company or a "going private transaction," as defined below, your entitlement to Restricted Shares shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the "surviving entity," as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of your unvested Restricted Shares multiplied by (ii) the "offer price per share," the "acquisition price per share" or the "merger price per share," each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you an award of shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms and with a value equivalent to your unvested Restricted Shares which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Paragraph 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Paragraph 1 or 2 shall become payable to you at the earlier of (a) the date on which your Restricted Shares are scheduled to vest (provided that you remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates through such date), or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for "good reason," as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in the event that your rights in the Restricted Shares are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity
Change of Control
or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
 
"" means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a "") which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Company's cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Paragraph 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Paragraph 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of "" the Company's New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Surviving entity
parent entity
substantially all
 
"" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going private transaction
 
"" means
Good reason
 
a.     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or
material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
 
b.     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
c.     the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
d.     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Paragraph 1.
"" shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per Share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Offer price per share
Offer
 
"" shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ""), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share
Merger
 
"" shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Company's voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
Acquisition price per share
     

Exhibit 99.8
James Dolan March 9, 2009 Dear James:
Pursuant to the Companys 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ), on March 5, 2009 (the ) you were selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Paragraph 14, the ) of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ) to receive nonqualified stock options (the ) to purchase 903,100 shares of NY Group Class A Common Stock of the Company (the ) at a price of $10.24 per share.
Plan
Effective Date
Committee
Company
Options
Class A Common Stock
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this ) have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Options are granted subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
. If you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or any Affiliate through the respective dates below, the Options will become exercisable in accordance with the following schedule:
1.     
Vesting
 
. You may exercise the Options that become vested and exercisable by giving written notice to the Secretary of the Company specifying the number of shares of Class A Common Stock as to which the Options are being exercised (the ), together with a copy of this Agreement. Unless the Company chooses to settle such exercise in cash, shares of Class A Common Stock, or a combination thereof pursuant to Paragraph 3, you will be required to deliver to the Company within such time period as the Company may require, payment in full of the exercise price due on account of such exercise. You may pay the exercise price by cash, by certified check, by surrendering shares of Class A Common Stock or by any combination thereof. Class A Common Stock used to pay the exercise price pursuant to this Paragraph 2 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day preceding the date of exercise.
2.     
Exercise
Exercise Notice
. Upon receipt of the Exercise Notice, the Company may elect, in lieu of issuing shares of Class A Common Stock, to settle the exercise covered by such notice by paying you an amount equal to the product obtained by
3.     
Option Spread
multiplying (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Class A Common Stock on the date of exercise over the per share exercise price of the Options (the ) by (ii) the number of shares of Class A Common Stock specified in the Exercise Notice. The amount payable to you in these circumstances may be paid by the Company either in cash or in shares of Class A Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the Option Spread, or a combination thereof, as the Company shall determine. Class A Common Stock used to pay the Option Spread pursuant to this Paragraph 3 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day the Exercise Notice is received by the Company.
Option Spread
. The Options will terminate automatically and without further notice on September 5, 2014, or at any of the following dates, if earlier:
4.     
Expiration
 
For the avoidance of doubt, Section 4(B) above shall not apply to any termination of your employment by the Company.
For purposes of this Agreement,  means, as determined by the Committee, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement,  means your inability to perform for six (6) continuous months substantially all the essential duties of your occupation, as determined by the Committee.
Disability
For purposes of this Agreement,  means the voluntary termination by you of your employment with the Company and its Affiliates at such time as (i) you have attained at least the age of fifty-five (55) and (ii) you have been employed
Retirement
by the Company or its Affiliates for at least five (5) years, that the Company may nevertheless decide, in its sole discretion, not to treat your termination of employment as a Retirement hereunder. Treatment of your termination of employment as a Retirement hereunder shall be further subject to your execution (and the effectiveness) of a retirement agreement to the Companys satisfaction, including, without limitation (to the extent desired by the Company), non-compete, non-disparagement, non-solicitation, confidentiality and further cooperation obligations/restrictions on you as well as a general release by you of the Company and its Affiliates. The above definition of Retirement is solely for purposes of this Agreement and shall not, in any way, create or imply any obligations of the Company or any of its Affiliates (under any other agreement or otherwise) with respect to any such termination of your employment.
provided
Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Paragraph 4, in the event of your death during the period that your Options are exercisable, whether death occurs before or after you cease employment, the Options that are exercisable at the time of your death shall remain exercisable by your estate or beneficiary until the later of the first (1st) anniversary of your death and September 5, 2014.
. As set forth in attached hereto, the Options may be affected in the event of a Change of Control or a going private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto) of the Company.
5.     
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction
Appendix 1
Appendix 1
. You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of exercising the Options and receiving shares of Class A Common Stock and cash. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
6.     
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the exercise of the Options, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
It is the Companys intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute non-qualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code (Section 409A) and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a separation from service as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a specified employee (within the meaning of Section
7.     
Section 409A.
409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
. You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Options, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
8.     
Transfer Restrictions
. The Options are not intended to qualify as incentive stock options within the meaning of Section 422A of the Code.
9.     
Non-Qualification as ISO
. You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the shares of Class A Common Stock are publicly-traded securities and (ii) the shares of Class A Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Options may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
10.     
Securities Law Acknowledgments
. This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects shall be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
11.     
Governing Law
. You hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States of America located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You hereby agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in any manner as may be permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof.
12.     
Jurisdiction and Venue
. You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute non-qualified deferred compensation pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
13.     
Right of Offset
. For purposes of this Agreement, the term Committee means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
14.     
The Committee
. The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
15.     
Committee Discretion
. The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 5 and Appendix 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
16.     
Amendment
. The Options granted by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
17.     
Options Subject to the Plan
. Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced, such modification, renewal or replacement shall not extend the time any Options may be exercised beyond the time provided herein or in such original employment agreement), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Options covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Options covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
18.     
Entire Agreement
provided that
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
19.     
Successors and Assigns
. No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
20.     
Waiver
. The terms or conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
21.     
Severability
. By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that all shares of Class A Common Stock and cash received upon each exercise of the Options shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as wages or salary in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In
22.     
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares of Class A Common Stock and cash be exempt from inclusion in wages or salary for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
. Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
23.     
No Right to Continued Employment
. The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
24.     
Headings
. Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
25.     
Effective Date
. Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
26.     
Signatures
 
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
 
In the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going private transaction, as defined below, your entitlement to exercise the Options shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the surviving entity, as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, to the extent that the Options have not been exercised and have not expired (the ), no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of common shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options multiplied by (ii) the excess of (x) the offer price per share, the acquisition price per share or the merger price per share, each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable, over (y) the exercise price of the shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options, or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you in substitution for your Outstanding Options an award of options for shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms with a value equivalent to the Outstanding Options and which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
Outstanding Options
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Section 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Section 1 or 2 shall become payable to you, and the substitute options of the surviving entity provided in Section 1 will become exercisable (1) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were not exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, at the earlier of (a) the date on which the Outstanding Options would otherwise have become exercisable hereunder had they continued in effect, or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for good reason, as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in
the event that your rights in the Outstanding Options are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1, or (2) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, the substitute options shall become exercisable immediately and the cash awards shall become payable promptly. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
Change of Control means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. New York City Metropolitan Area means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
Surviving entity means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a parent entity) which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Companys cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such
transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Section 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of substantially all the Companys New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Going private transaction means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Good reason means
(i)     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Effective Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
(ii)     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
(iii)     the Companys requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
(iv)     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Section 1.
Offer price per share shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity
Offer
making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger
Acquisition price per share shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Companys voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
 
 

Exhibit 99.9
James Dolan
March 9, 2009
Dear James:
Pursuant to the 2006 Cash Incentive Plan (the ) of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors to receive a contingent cash award (the ) effective as of March 5, 2009 (the ).
Plan
Company
Award
Effective Date
Capitalized terms used, but not defined, in this agreement (this ) have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
. In accordance with the terms of this Performance Award Agreement, the target amount of your contingent Award is $2,235,000 (the ), which may be increased or decreased to the extent the performance objectives set forth on hereto (the ) have been attained in respect of the period from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 (the ). The Award, calculated in accordance with Annex 1 attached hereto, will become payable to you upon the date on which the Committee (as defined in Section 10 below) determines the Companys performance against the Objectives (the ) , that you have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through the Payment Date.
1.     
Amount and Payment of Award
Target Award
Annex 1
Objectives
Performance Period
Payment Date
provided
. If, on the Payment Date, you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates for any reason, other than as a result of your death, then you will automatically forfeit all of your rights and interest in the Award regardless of whether the Objectives are attained.
2.     
Termination of Employment
. If, prior to the end of the Performance Period, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive, promptly (and in any event within 30 days) following the date of such termination, payment of the Target Award prorated for the number of completed months of your employment during the Performance Period prior to such termination. If after the end of the Performance Period but prior to the Payment Date, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive on the Payment Date the Award, if any, to which you would have been entitled on the Payment Date had your employment not been so terminated.
3.     
Death
.
4.     
Going Private Transaction or Change in Control
a.     Going Private Transaction. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if at any time a Going Private Transaction (as defined below) occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, the Target Award shall become payable to you whether or not the Objectives have been attained at the earlier of (i) January 1, 2012, , that you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through such date or (ii) the date subsequent to the Going Private Transaction on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (A) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause (as defined below) or (B) by you for Good Reason (as defined below). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you become entitled to payment of the Target Award by virtue of a termination in accordance with (ii)(A) or (ii)(B) of this Section 4(a) and are determined by the Company to be a specified employee within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Section 409A of the IRC), the Target Award shall be paid to you on the earlier of: (i) January 1, 2012, (ii) the date that is six months from your date of employment termination and (iii) any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC. In the event of such a determination, the Company shall promptly following the date of your employment termination set aside such amount for your benefit in a rabbi trust that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to the previous sentence); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of your employment termination.
provided
provided
b.     Change in Control. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement but subject to the subsections of this Section 4(b), if at any time a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, you will be entitled to the payment of the Target Award whether or not the Objectives have been attained.
i.     If the actual Change of Control:
(A)     is a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC or payment of the Award promptly upon such event is otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the Award), then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company promptly following the Change of Control; or
(B)     is not a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC and payment of the Award promptly upon such event is not otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC, then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company (together with interest thereon pursuant to Section 4(b)(ii) below) on the earliest to occur of:
(1)     any subsequent date on which you are no longer employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates for any reason other than termination of your employment by one of such entities for Cause (provided that if you are determined by the Company to be a specified employee within the meaning of Section 409A of the IRC, six months from such date);
(2)     any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC; or
(3)     January 1, 2012.
ii.     Upon any Change of Control, to the extent any amounts are due to be paid to you at a later date pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above, the Company shall promptly following the Change of Control set aside such amount for your benefit in a rabbi trust that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of the Change of Control and shall adjust annually based on the average of such rate for the ten business days prior to each anniversary of the Change of Control.
provided
If and to the extent that any payment is determined by the Company to constitute non-qualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the IRC and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then such payment shall be made to you only upon a separation from service as defined for purposes of Section 409A of the IRC under applicable regulations.
under this Section 4
For purposes of this Agreement,  means, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an Affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement,  means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (i) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined below) or (ii) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (i) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants
Change of Control
of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants.
For purposes of this Agreement,  means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going Private Transaction
For purposes of this Agreement,  means: (a) without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Going Private Transaction including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties; (b) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you; (c) the Companys requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to the Going Private Transaction except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or (d) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor.
Good Reason
For purposes of this Agreement,  means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
. Except for a right which has accrued to receive a payment on account of the Award, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect on the Payment Date.
5.     
Termination
. You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Award other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
6.     
Transfer Restrictions
. The Plan will at all times be unfunded and, except as set forth in Section 4(b) of this Agreement, no provision will at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company or any of its Affiliates for payment of any benefits under the Plan, including, without limitation, those covered by this Agreement. Your right or that of your estate to receive payments under this Agreement shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, including any rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b). Neither you nor your estate shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company other than the assets held by the rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b).
7.     
Unfunded Obligation
. You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Award. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents. If, in connection with the Award, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
8.     
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
You hereby agree that if the Company shall owe you any amount that does not constitute non-qualified deferred compensation pursuant to Section 409A of the IRC (the ) under this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset against the Company-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any amounts that you may owe to the Company or its Affiliates of whatever nature.
9.     
Right of Offset.
Company-Owed Amount
. For purposes of this Agreement, the term  means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
10.     
The Committee
Committee
. The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
11.     
Committee Discretion
. The Committee reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend or revise the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee may not make any such amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial) without your consent. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
12.     
Amendment
. The Award and all other amounts payable hereunder are subject to the Plan.
13.     
Award Subject to the Plan
. Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Award covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Award covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
14.     
Entire Agreement
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
15.     
Successors and Assigns
. This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
16.     
Governing Law
. You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
17.     
Jurisdiction and Venue
. No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
18.     
Waiver
. The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
19.     
Severability
. By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Award shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as wages or salary in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that the Award shall be exempt from inclusion in wages or salary for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
20.     
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
. Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
21.     
No Right to Continued Employment
. The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
22.     
Headings
. Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
23.     
Effective Date
. Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
24.     
Signatures
 
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
 

Exhibit 99.10
Hank Ratner
March 9, 2009
Dear Hank:
Pursuant to the Company's 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Section 11, the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "") to receive 151,000 restricted shares ("") of NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Committee
Company
Restricted Shares
Common Shares
Grant Date
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Restricted Shares are subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.      Subject to Sections 2 and 3, none of your Restricted Shares will vest and you will forfeit all of them if you do not remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Grant Date through the third anniversary of the Grant Date (such date, the "Vesting Date").
Vesting.
2.     If your employment is terminated as a result of your death, all of the Restricted Shares will vest as of the termination date.
Accelerated Vesting in the Event of Death.
3.      As set forth in attached hereto, your entitlement to Restricted Shares may be affected in the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto).
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction.
Annex 1
Annex 1
4.      You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Restricted Shares, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions.
5.      You have full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Shares. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, all ordinary (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) cash dividends and distributions paid on your Restricted Shares will be retained by the Company for your account until your Restricted Shares vest and such dividends and distributions will be paid to you (without interest) when your Restricted Shares vest. Such dividends, to the extent retained, shall revert back to the Company if for any reason the Restricted Share upon which such dividends were paid reverts back to the Company.
Right to Vote and Receive Dividends.
6.     . If you wish to make an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to recognize income with respect to the Restricted Shares before they become vested, you must file a Section 83(b) election with the Internal Revenue Service of the Grant Date and provide a copy of that filing to the Company.
Section 83(b) Election
within thirty (30) days
You are strongly encouraged to seek the advice of a tax consultant
A sample Form of Election under Section 83(b) is available upon request from the Company's Tax Department.
regarding the advisability of making a Section 83(b) election. You should note that any taxes you pay as a result of your Section 83(b) election cannot be recovered if your Restricted Shares are forfeited or decline in value. It is your sole responsibility to timely file an election under Section 83(b). You must notify the Company within ten (10) days of filing any such election.
7.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Restricted Shares. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the Restricted Shares, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
8.     It is the Company's intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A"), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
Section 409A.
9.      Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, delivery of the Restricted Shares will be by book-entry credit to an account in your name that the Company has established at a custody agent (the ""). The Company's transfer agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. shall act as the custodian of the Restricted Shares; , the Company may in its sole discretion appoint another custodian to replace Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. On the date your Restricted Shares vest, if you have complied with your obligations under this Agreement and that your tax obligations with respect to the vested Restricted Shares are appropriately satisfied, we will instruct the custodian to electronically transfer your Common Shares to a brokerage or other account on your behalf (or make such other arrangements for the delivery of the Common Shares to you as we reasonably determine).
Delivery.
custodian
however
provided
10.     . You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Right of Offset
11.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
12.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
13.     The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 3 and Annex 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be "terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event." Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment.
14.      The Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
Restricted Shares Subject to the Plan.
15.      Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Restricted Shares covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Restricted Shares covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement; provided that if prior to the Vesting Date, you terminate your employment with the Company for the reason specified in clause (i) of the definition of "Good Reason" in the Definitions Annex to your employment agreement as in effect as of the date hereof, then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in such employment agreement, you will forfeit all of the Restricted Shares in accordance with Section 1 of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement.
16.      The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
17.     This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
18.     You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the
Jurisdiction and Venue.
mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
19.     . You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the Common Shares are publicly-traded securities and (ii) Common Shares may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
Securities Law Acknowledgments
20.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
21.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
22.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Restricted Shares covered hereby shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
23.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
No Right to Continued Employment
24.      The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings.
25.      Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Grant Date.
Effective Date.
 
26.     Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures.
   
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   
In the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company or a "going private transaction," as defined below, your entitlement to Restricted Shares shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the "surviving entity," as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of your unvested Restricted Shares multiplied by (ii) the "offer price per share," the "acquisition price per share" or the "merger price per share," each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you an award of shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms and with a value equivalent to your unvested Restricted Shares which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Paragraph 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Paragraph 1 or 2 shall become payable to you at the earlier of (a) the date on which your Restricted Shares are scheduled to vest (provided that you remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates through such date), or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for "good reason," as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in the event that your rights in the Restricted Shares are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity
Change of Control
or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
 
"" means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a "") which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Company's cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Paragraph 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Paragraph 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of "" the Company's New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Surviving entity
parent entity
substantially all
 
"" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going private transaction
 
"" means
Good reason
 
a.     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or
material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
 
b.     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
c.     the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
d.     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Paragraph 1.
"" shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per Share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Offer price per share
Offer
 
"" shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ""), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share
Merger
 
"" shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Company's voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
Acquisition price per share
   

Exhibit 99.11
Hank Ratner March 9, 2009 Dear Hank:
Pursuant to the Companys 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ), on March 5, 2009 (the ) you were selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Paragraph 14, the ) of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ) to receive nonqualified stock options (the ) to purchase 806,100 shares of NY Group Class A Common Stock of the Company (the ) at a price of $10.24 per share.
Plan
Effective Date
Committee
Company
Options
Class A Common Stock
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this ) have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Options are granted subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
. If you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or any Affiliate through the respective dates below, the Options will become exercisable in accordance with the following schedule:
1.     
Vesting
 
. You may exercise the Options that become vested and exercisable by giving written notice to the Secretary of the Company specifying the number of shares of Class A Common Stock as to which the Options are being exercised (the ), together with a copy of this Agreement. Unless the Company chooses to settle such exercise in cash, shares of Class A Common Stock, or a combination thereof pursuant to Paragraph 3, you will be required to deliver to the Company within such time period as the Company may require, payment in full of the exercise price due on account of such exercise. You may pay the exercise price by cash, by certified check, by surrendering shares of Class A Common Stock or by any combination thereof. Class A Common Stock used to pay the exercise price pursuant to this Paragraph 2 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day preceding the date of exercise.
2.     
Exercise
Exercise Notice
. Upon receipt of the Exercise Notice, the Company may elect, in lieu of issuing shares of Class A Common Stock, to settle the exercise covered by such notice by paying you an amount equal to the product obtained by
3.     
Option Spread
multiplying (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Class A Common Stock on the date of exercise over the per share exercise price of the Options (the ) by (ii) the number of shares of Class A Common Stock specified in the Exercise Notice. The amount payable to you in these circumstances may be paid by the Company either in cash or in shares of Class A Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the Option Spread, or a combination thereof, as the Company shall determine. Class A Common Stock used to pay the Option Spread pursuant to this Paragraph 3 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day the Exercise Notice is received by the Company.
Option Spread
. The Options will terminate automatically and without further notice on September 5, 2014, or at any of the following dates, if earlier:
4.     
Expiration
 
For the avoidance of doubt, Section 4(B) above shall not apply to any termination of your employment by the Company.
For purposes of this Agreement,  means, as determined by the Committee, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement,  means your inability to perform for six (6) continuous months substantially all the essential duties of your occupation, as determined by the Committee.
Disability
For purposes of this Agreement,  means the voluntary termination by you of your employment with the Company and its Affiliates at such time as (i) you have attained at least the age of fifty-five (55) and (ii) you have been employed
Retirement
by the Company or its Affiliates for at least five (5) years, that the Company may nevertheless decide, in its sole discretion, not to treat your termination of employment as a Retirement hereunder. Treatment of your termination of employment as a Retirement hereunder shall be further subject to your execution (and the effectiveness) of a retirement agreement to the Companys satisfaction, including, without limitation (to the extent desired by the Company), non-compete, non-disparagement, non-solicitation, confidentiality and further cooperation obligations/restrictions on you as well as a general release by you of the Company and its Affiliates. The above definition of Retirement is solely for purposes of this Agreement and shall not, in any way, create or imply any obligations of the Company or any of its Affiliates (under any other agreement or otherwise) with respect to any such termination of your employment.
provided
Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Paragraph 4, in the event of your death during the period that your Options are exercisable, whether death occurs before or after you cease employment, the Options that are exercisable at the time of your death shall remain exercisable by your estate or beneficiary until the later of the first (1st) anniversary of your death and September 5, 2014.
. As set forth in attached hereto, the Options may be affected in the event of a Change of Control or a going private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto) of the Company.
5.     
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction
Appendix 1
Appendix 1
. You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of exercising the Options and receiving shares of Class A Common Stock and cash. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
6.     
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the exercise of the Options, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
It is the Companys intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute non-qualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code (Section 409A) and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a separation from service as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a specified employee (within the meaning of Section
7.     
Section 409A.
409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
. You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Options, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
8.     
Transfer Restrictions
. The Options are not intended to qualify as incentive stock options within the meaning of Section 422A of the Code.
9.     
Non-Qualification as ISO
. You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the shares of Class A Common Stock are publicly-traded securities and (ii) the shares of Class A Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Options may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
10.     
Securities Law Acknowledgments
. This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects shall be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
11.     
Governing Law
. You hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States of America located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You hereby agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in any manner as may be permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof.
12.     
Jurisdiction and Venue
. You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute non-qualified deferred compensation pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
13.     
Right of Offset
. For purposes of this Agreement, the term Committee means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
14.     
The Committee
. The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
15.     
Committee Discretion
. The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 5 and Appendix 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
16.     
Amendment
. The Options granted by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
17.     
Options Subject to the Plan
. Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced, such modification, renewal or replacement shall not extend the time any Options may be exercised beyond the time provided herein or in such original employment agreement), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Options covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Options covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement; provided that if you terminate your employment with the Company for the reason specified in clause (i) of the definition of Good Reason in the Definitions Annex to your employment agreement in effect as of the date hereof, then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in such employment agreement, any Options that are then unexercisable will immediately terminate in accordance with Section 4(A) of this Agreement.
18.     
Entire Agreement
provided that
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
19.     
Successors and Assigns
. No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
20.     
Waiver
. The terms or conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
21.     
Severability
. By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that all shares of Class A Common Stock and cash received upon each exercise of the Options shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as wages or salary in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares of Class A Common Stock and cash be exempt from inclusion in wages or salary for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
22.     
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
. Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
23.     
No Right to Continued Employment
. The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
24.     
Headings
. Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
25.     
Effective Date
. Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
26.     
Signatures
 
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
 
In the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going private transaction, as defined below, your entitlement to exercise the Options shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the surviving entity, as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, to the extent that the Options have not been exercised and have not expired (the ), no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of common shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options multiplied by (ii) the excess of (x) the offer price per share, the acquisition price per share or the merger price per share, each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable, over (y) the exercise price of the shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options, or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you in substitution for your Outstanding Options an award of options for shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms with a value equivalent to the Outstanding Options and which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
Outstanding Options
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Section 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Section 1 or 2 shall become payable to you, and the substitute options of the surviving entity provided in Section 1 will become exercisable (1) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were not exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, at the earlier of (a) the date on which the Outstanding Options would otherwise have become exercisable hereunder had they continued in effect, or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for good reason, as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in
the event that your rights in the Outstanding Options are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1, or (2) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, the substitute options shall become exercisable immediately and the cash awards shall become payable promptly. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
Change of Control means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. New York City Metropolitan Area means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
Surviving entity means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a parent entity) which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Companys cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such
transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Section 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of substantially all the Companys New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Going private transaction means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Good reason means
(i)     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Effective Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
(ii)     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
(iii)     the Companys requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
(iv)     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Section 1.
Offer price per share shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity
Offer
making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger
Acquisition price per share shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Companys voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
 
 

Exhibit 99.12
Hank Ratner
March 9, 2009
Dear Hank:
Pursuant to the 2006 Cash Incentive Plan (the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors to receive a contingent cash award (the "") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Company
Award
Effective Date
Capitalized terms used, but not defined, in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
. In accordance with the terms of this Performance Award Agreement, the target amount of your contingent Award is $1,995,000 (the ""), which may be increased or decreased to the extent the performance objectives set forth on hereto (the "") have been attained in respect of the period from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 (the ""). The Award, calculated in accordance with Annex 1 attached hereto, will become payable to you upon the date on which the Committee (as defined in Section 10 below) determines the Company's performance against the Objectives (the "") , that you have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through the Payment Date.
1.     
Amount and Payment of Award
Target Award
Annex 1
Objectives
Performance Period
Payment Date
provided
. If, on the Payment Date, you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates for any reason, other than as a result of your death, then you will automatically forfeit all of your rights and interest in the Award regardless of whether the Objectives are attained.
2.     
Termination of Employment
. If, prior to the end of the Performance Period, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive, promptly (and in any event within 30 days) following the date of such termination, payment of the Target Award prorated for the number of completed months of your employment during the Performance Period prior to such termination. If after the end of the Performance Period but prior to the Payment Date, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive on the Payment Date the Award, if any, to which you would have been entitled on the Payment Date had your employment not been so terminated.
3.     
Death
.
4.     
Going Private Transaction or Change in Control
a.     Going Private Transaction. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if at any time a Going Private Transaction (as defined below) occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, the Target Award shall become payable to you whether or not the Objectives have been attained at the earlier of (i) January 1, 2012, , that you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through such date or (ii) the date subsequent to the Going Private Transaction on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (A) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause (as defined below) or (B) by you for Good Reason (as defined below). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you become entitled to payment of the Target Award by virtue of a termination in accordance with (ii)(A) or (ii)(B) of this Section 4(a) and are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 409A of the IRC"), the Target Award shall be paid to you on the earlier of: (i) January 1, 2012, (ii) the date that is six months from your date of employment termination and (iii) any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC. In the event of such a determination, the Company shall promptly following the date of your employment termination set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to the previous sentence); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of your employment termination.
provided
provided
b.     Change in Control. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement but subject to the subsections of this Section 4(b), if at any time a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, you will be entitled to the payment of the Target Award whether or not the Objectives have been attained.
i.     If the actual Change of Control:
(A)     is a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC or payment of the Award promptly upon such event is otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the Award), then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company promptly following the Change of Control; or
(B)     is not a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC and payment of the Award promptly upon such event is not otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC, then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company (together with interest thereon pursuant to Section 4(b)(ii) below) on the earliest to occur of:
(1)     any subsequent date on which you are no longer employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates for any reason other than termination of your employment by one of such entities for Cause (provided that if you are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the IRC, six months from such date);
(2)     any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC; or
(3)     January 1, 2012.
ii.     Upon any Change of Control, to the extent any amounts are due to be paid to you at a later date pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above, the Company shall promptly following the Change of Control set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of the Change of Control and shall adjust annually based on the average of such rate for the ten business days prior to each anniversary of the Change of Control.
provided
If and to the extent that any payment is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the IRC and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then such payment shall be made to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A of the IRC under applicable regulations.
under this Section 4
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an Affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (i) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined below) or (ii) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (i) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants
Change of Control
of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants.
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going Private Transaction
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means: (a) without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Going Private Transaction including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties; (b) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you; (c) the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to the Going Private Transaction except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or (d) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor.
Good Reason
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
. Except for a right which has accrued to receive a payment on account of the Award, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect on the Payment Date.
5.     
Termination
. You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Award other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
6.     
Transfer Restrictions
. The Plan will at all times be unfunded and, except as set forth in Section 4(b) of this Agreement, no provision will at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company or any of its Affiliates for payment of any benefits under the Plan, including, without limitation, those covered by this Agreement. Your right or that of your estate to receive payments under this Agreement shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, including any rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b). Neither you nor your estate shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company other than the assets held by the rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b).
7.     
Unfunded Obligation
. You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Award. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents. If, in connection with the Award, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
8.     
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
You hereby agree that if the Company shall owe you any amount that does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A of the IRC (the "") under this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset against the Company-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any amounts that you may owe to the Company or its Affiliates of whatever nature.
9.     
Right of Offset.
Company-Owed Amount
. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
10.     
The Committee
Committee
. The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
11.     
Committee Discretion
. The Committee reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend or revise the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee may not make any such amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial) without your consent. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
12.     
Amendment
. The Award and all other amounts payable hereunder are subject to the Plan.
13.     
Award Subject to the Plan
. Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Award covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Award covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement; provided that if you terminate your employment with the Company for the reason specified in clause (i) of the definition of "Good Reason" in the Definitions Annex to your employment agreement as in effect as of the date hereof, then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in such employment agreement, you will automatically forfeit all of your rights and interests in the Award in accordance with Section 2 of this Agreement.
14.     
Entire Agreement
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
15.     
Successors and Assigns
. This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
16.     
Governing Law
. You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
17.     
Jurisdiction and Venue
. No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
18.     
Waiver
. The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
19.     
Severability
. By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Award shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that the Award shall be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
20.     
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
. Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
21.     
No Right to Continued Employment
. The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
22.     
Headings
. Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
23.     
Effective Date
. Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
24.     
Signatures
   
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   

Exhibit 99.13
Thomas Rutledge
March 9, 2009
Dear Thomas:
Pursuant to the Company's 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Section 11, the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "") to receive 151,000 restricted shares ("") of NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Committee
Company
Restricted Shares
Common Shares
Grant Date
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Restricted Shares are subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.      Subject to Sections 2 and 3, none of your Restricted Shares will vest and you will forfeit all of them if you do not remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Grant Date through the third anniversary of the Grant Date (such date, the "Vesting Date").
Vesting.
2.     If your employment is terminated as a result of your death, all of the Restricted Shares will vest as of the termination date.
Accelerated Vesting in the Event of Death.
3.      As set forth in attached hereto, your entitlement to Restricted Shares may be affected in the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going-private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto).
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction.
Annex 1
Annex 1
4.      You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Restricted Shares, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions.
5.      You have full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Shares. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, all ordinary (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) cash dividends and distributions paid on your Restricted Shares will be retained by the Company for your account until your Restricted Shares vest and such dividends and distributions will be paid to you (without interest) when your Restricted Shares vest. Such dividends, to the extent retained, shall revert back to the Company if for any reason the Restricted Share upon which such dividends were paid reverts back to the Company.
Right to Vote and Receive Dividends.
6.     . If you wish to make an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to recognize income with respect to the Restricted Shares before they become vested, you must file a Section 83(b) election with the Internal Revenue Service of the Grant Date and provide a copy of that filing to the Company.
Section 83(b) Election
within thirty (30) days
You are strongly encouraged to seek the advice of a tax consultant
A sample Form of Election under Section 83(b) is available upon request from the Company's Tax Department.
regarding the advisability of making a Section 83(b) election. You should note that any taxes you pay as a result of your Section 83(b) election cannot be recovered if your Restricted Shares are forfeited or decline in value. It is your sole responsibility to timely file an election under Section 83(b). You must notify the Company within ten (10) days of filing any such election.
7.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Restricted Shares. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the Restricted Shares, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
8.     It is the Company's intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A"), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
Section 409A.
9.      Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, delivery of the Restricted Shares will be by book-entry credit to an account in your name that the Company has established at a custody agent (the ""). The Company's transfer agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. shall act as the custodian of the Restricted Shares; , the Company may in its sole discretion appoint another custodian to replace Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. On the date your Restricted Shares vest, if you have complied with your obligations under this Agreement and that your tax obligations with respect to the vested Restricted Shares are appropriately satisfied, we will instruct the custodian to electronically transfer your Common Shares to a brokerage or other account on your behalf (or make such other arrangements for the delivery of the Common Shares to you as we reasonably determine).
Delivery.
custodian
however
provided
10.     . You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Right of Offset
11.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
12.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
13.     The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 3 and Annex 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be "terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event." Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment.
14.      The Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
Restricted Shares Subject to the Plan.
15.      Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Restricted Shares covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Restricted Shares covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement; provided that if prior to the Vesting Date, you terminate your employment with the Company for the reason specified in clause (i) of the definition of "Good Reason" in the Definitions Annex to your employment agreement as in effect as of the date hereof, then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in such employment agreement, you will forfeit all of the Restricted Shares in accordance with Section 1 of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement.
16.      The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
17.     This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
18.     You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the
Jurisdiction and Venue.
mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
19.     . You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the Common Shares are publicly-traded securities and (ii) Common Shares may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
Securities Law Acknowledgments
20.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
21.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
22.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Restricted Shares covered hereby shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
23.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
No Right to Continued Employment
24.      The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings.
25.      Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Grant Date.
Effective Date.
26.     Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures.
   
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   
In the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company or a "going private transaction," as defined below, your entitlement to Restricted Shares shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the "surviving entity," as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of your unvested Restricted Shares multiplied by (ii) the "offer price per share," the "acquisition price per share" or the "merger price per share," each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you an award of shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms and with a value equivalent to your unvested Restricted Shares which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Paragraph 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Paragraph 1 or 2 shall become payable to you at the earlier of (a) the date on which your Restricted Shares are scheduled to vest (provided that you remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates through such date), or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for "good reason," as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in the event that your rights in the Restricted Shares are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity
Change of Control
or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
 
"" means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a "") which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Company's cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Paragraph 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Paragraph 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of "" the Company's New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Surviving entity
parent entity
substantially all
 
"" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going private transaction
 
"" means
Good reason
 
a.     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or
material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
 
b.     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
c.     the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
d.     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Paragraph 1.
"" shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per Share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Offer price per share
Offer
 
"" shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ""), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share
Merger
 
"" shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Company's voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
Acquisition price per share
   

Exhibit 99.14
Thomas Rutledge March 9, 2009 Dear Thomas:
Pursuant to the Companys 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ), on March 5, 2009 (the ) you were selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Paragraph 14, the ) of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ) to receive nonqualified stock options (the ) to purchase 806,100 shares of NY Group Class A Common Stock of the Company (the ) at a price of $10.24 per share.
Plan
Effective Date
Committee
Company
Options
Class A Common Stock
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this ) have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Options are granted subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
. If you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or any Affiliate through the respective dates below, the Options will become exercisable in accordance with the following schedule:
1.     
Vesting
 
. You may exercise the Options that become vested and exercisable by giving written notice to the Secretary of the Company specifying the number of shares of Class A Common Stock as to which the Options are being exercised (the ), together with a copy of this Agreement. Unless the Company chooses to settle such exercise in cash, shares of Class A Common Stock, or a combination thereof pursuant to Paragraph 3, you will be required to deliver to the Company within such time period as the Company may require, payment in full of the exercise price due on account of such exercise. You may pay the exercise price by cash, by certified check, by surrendering shares of Class A Common Stock or by any combination thereof. Class A Common Stock used to pay the exercise price pursuant to this Paragraph 2 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day preceding the date of exercise.
2.     
Exercise
Exercise Notice
. Upon receipt of the Exercise Notice, the Company may elect, in lieu of issuing shares of Class A Common Stock, to settle the exercise covered by such notice by paying you an amount equal to the product obtained by
3.     
Option Spread
multiplying (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Class A Common Stock on the date of exercise over the per share exercise price of the Options (the ) by (ii) the number of shares of Class A Common Stock specified in the Exercise Notice. The amount payable to you in these circumstances may be paid by the Company either in cash or in shares of Class A Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the Option Spread, or a combination thereof, as the Company shall determine. Class A Common Stock used to pay the Option Spread pursuant to this Paragraph 3 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day the Exercise Notice is received by the Company.
Option Spread
. The Options will terminate automatically and without further notice on September 5, 2014, or at any of the following dates, if earlier:
4.     
Expiration
 
For the avoidance of doubt, Section 4(B) above shall not apply to any termination of your employment by the Company.
For purposes of this Agreement,  means, as determined by the Committee, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement,  means your inability to perform for six (6) continuous months substantially all the essential duties of your occupation, as determined by the Committee.
Disability
For purposes of this Agreement,  means the voluntary termination by you of your employment with the Company and its Affiliates at such time as (i) you have attained at least the age of fifty-five (55) and (ii) you have been employed
Retirement
by the Company or its Affiliates for at least five (5) years, that the Company may nevertheless decide, in its sole discretion, not to treat your termination of employment as a Retirement hereunder. Treatment of your termination of employment as a Retirement hereunder shall be further subject to your execution (and the effectiveness) of a retirement agreement to the Companys satisfaction, including, without limitation (to the extent desired by the Company), non-compete, non-disparagement, non-solicitation, confidentiality and further cooperation obligations/restrictions on you as well as a general release by you of the Company and its Affiliates. The above definition of Retirement is solely for purposes of this Agreement and shall not, in any way, create or imply any obligations of the Company or any of its Affiliates (under any other agreement or otherwise) with respect to any such termination of your employment.
provided
Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Paragraph 4, in the event of your death during the period that your Options are exercisable, whether death occurs before or after you cease employment, the Options that are exercisable at the time of your death shall remain exercisable by your estate or beneficiary until the later of the first (1st) anniversary of your death and September 5, 2014.
. As set forth in attached hereto, the Options may be affected in the event of a Change of Control or a going private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto) of the Company.
5.     
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction
Appendix 1
Appendix 1
. You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of exercising the Options and receiving shares of Class A Common Stock and cash. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
6.     
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the exercise of the Options, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
It is the Companys intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute non-qualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code (Section 409A) and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a separation from service as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a specified employee (within the meaning of Section
7.     
Section 409A.
409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
. You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Options, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
8.     
Transfer Restrictions
. The Options are not intended to qualify as incentive stock options within the meaning of Section 422A of the Code.
9.     
Non-Qualification as ISO
. You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the shares of Class A Common Stock are publicly-traded securities and (ii) the shares of Class A Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Options may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
10.     
Securities Law Acknowledgments
. This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects shall be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
11.     
Governing Law
. You hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States of America located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You hereby agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in any manner as may be permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof.
12.     
Jurisdiction and Venue
. You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute non-qualified deferred compensation pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
13.     
Right of Offset
. For purposes of this Agreement, the term Committee means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
14.     
The Committee
. The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
15.     
Committee Discretion
. The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 5 and Appendix 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
16.     
Amendment
. The Options granted by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
17.     
Options Subject to the Plan
. Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced, such modification, renewal or replacement shall not extend the time any Options may be exercised beyond the time provided herein or in such original employment agreement), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Options covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Options covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement; provided that if you terminate your employment with the Company for the reason specified in clause (i) of the definition of Good Reason in the Definitions Annex to your employment agreement in effect as of the date hereof, then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in such employment agreement, any options that are then unexercisable will immediately terminate in accordance with Section 4(A) of this Agreement.
18.     
Entire Agreement
provided that
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
19.     
Successors and Assigns
. No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
20.     
Waiver
. The terms or conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
21.     
Severability
. By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that all shares of Class A Common Stock and cash received upon each exercise of the Options shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as wages or salary in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares of Class A Common Stock and cash be exempt from inclusion in wages or salary for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
22.     
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
. Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
23.     
No Right to Continued Employment
. The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
24.     
Headings
. Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
25.     
Effective Date
. Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
26.     
Signatures
 
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
 
In the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going private transaction, as defined below, your entitlement to exercise the Options shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the surviving entity, as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, to the extent that the Options have not been exercised and have not expired (the ), no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of common shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options multiplied by (ii) the excess of (x) the offer price per share, the acquisition price per share or the merger price per share, each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable, over (y) the exercise price of the shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options, or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you in substitution for your Outstanding Options an award of options for shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms with a value equivalent to the Outstanding Options and which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
Outstanding Options
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Section 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Section 1 or 2 shall become payable to you, and the substitute options of the surviving entity provided in Section 1 will become exercisable (1) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were not exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, at the earlier of (a) the date on which the Outstanding Options would otherwise have become exercisable hereunder had they continued in effect, or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for good reason, as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in
the event that your rights in the Outstanding Options are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1, or (2) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, the substitute options shall become exercisable immediately and the cash awards shall become payable promptly. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
Change of Control means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. New York City Metropolitan Area means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
Surviving entity means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a parent entity) which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Companys cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such
transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Section 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of substantially all the Companys New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Going private transaction means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Good reason means
(i)     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Effective Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
(ii)     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
(iii)     the Companys requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
(iv)     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Section 1.
Offer price per share shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity
Offer
making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger
Acquisition price per share shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Companys voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
 
 

Exhibit 99.15
Thomas Rutledge
March 9, 2009
Dear Thomas:
Pursuant to the 2006 Cash Incentive Plan (the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors to receive a contingent cash award (the "") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Company
Award
Effective Date
Capitalized terms used, but not defined, in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
. In accordance with the terms of this Performance Award Agreement, the target amount of your contingent Award is $1,995,000 (the ""), which may be increased or decreased to the extent the performance objectives set forth on hereto (the "") have been attained in respect of the period from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 (the ""). The Award, calculated in accordance with Annex 1 attached hereto, will become payable to you upon the date on which the Committee (as defined in Section 10 below) determines the Company's performance against the Objectives (the "") , that you have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through the Payment Date.
1.     
Amount and Payment of Award
Target Award
Annex 1
Objectives
Performance Period
Payment Date
provided
. If, on the Payment Date, you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates for any reason, other than as a result of your death, then you will automatically forfeit all of your rights and interest in the Award regardless of whether the Objectives are attained.
2.     
Termination of Employment
. If, prior to the end of the Performance Period, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive, promptly (and in any event within 30 days) following the date of such termination, payment of the Target Award prorated for the number of completed months of your employment during the Performance Period prior to such termination. If after the end of the Performance Period but prior to the Payment Date, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive on the Payment Date the Award, if any, to which you would have been entitled on the Payment Date had your employment not been so terminated.
3.     
Death
.
4.     
Going Private Transaction or Change in Control
a.     Going Private Transaction. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if at any time a Going Private Transaction (as defined below) occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, the Target Award shall become payable to you whether or not the Objectives have been attained at the earlier of (i) January 1, 2012, , that you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through such date or (ii) the date subsequent to the Going Private Transaction on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (A) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause (as defined below) or (B) by you for Good Reason (as defined below). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you become entitled to payment of the Target Award by virtue of a termination in accordance with (ii)(A) or (ii)(B) of this Section 4(a) and are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 409A of the IRC"), the Target Award shall be paid to you on the earlier of: (i) January 1, 2012, (ii) the date that is six months from your date of employment termination and (iii) any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC. In the event of such a determination, the Company shall promptly following the date of your employment termination set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to the previous sentence); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of your employment termination.
provided
provided
b.     Change in Control. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement but subject to the subsections of this Section 4(b), if at any time a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, you will be entitled to the payment of the Target Award whether or not the Objectives have been attained.
i.     If the actual Change of Control:
(A)     is a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC or payment of the Award promptly upon such event is otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the Award), then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company promptly following the Change of Control; or
(B)     is not a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC and payment of the Award promptly upon such event is not otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC, then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company (together with interest thereon pursuant to Section 4(b)(ii) below) on the earliest to occur of:
(1)     any subsequent date on which you are no longer employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates for any reason other than termination of your employment by one of such entities for Cause (provided that if you are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the IRC, six months from such date);
(2)     any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC; or
(3)     January 1, 2012.
ii.     Upon any Change of Control, to the extent any amounts are due to be paid to you at a later date pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above, the Company shall promptly following the Change of Control set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of the Change of Control and shall adjust annually based on the average of such rate for the ten business days prior to each anniversary of the Change of Control.
provided
If and to the extent that any payment is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the IRC and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then such payment shall be made to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A of the IRC under applicable regulations.
under this Section 4
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an Affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (i) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined below) or (ii) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (i) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants
Change of Control
of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants.
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going Private Transaction
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means: (a) without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Going Private Transaction including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties; (b) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you; (c) the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to the Going Private Transaction except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or (d) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor.
Good Reason
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
. Except for a right which has accrued to receive a payment on account of the Award, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect on the Payment Date.
5.     
Termination
. You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Award other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
6.     
Transfer Restrictions
. The Plan will at all times be unfunded and, except as set forth in Section 4(b) of this Agreement, no provision will at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company or any of its Affiliates for payment of any benefits under the Plan, including, without limitation, those covered by this Agreement. Your right or that of your estate to receive payments under this Agreement shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, including any rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b). Neither you nor your estate shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company other than the assets held by the rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b).
7.     
Unfunded Obligation
. You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Award. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents. If, in connection with the Award, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
8.     
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
You hereby agree that if the Company shall owe you any amount that does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A of the IRC (the "") under this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset against the Company-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any amounts that you may owe to the Company or its Affiliates of whatever nature.
9.     
Right of Offset.
Company-Owed Amount
. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
10.     
The Committee
Committee
. The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
11.     
Committee Discretion
. The Committee reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend or revise the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee may not make any such amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial) without your consent. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
12.     
Amendment
. The Award and all other amounts payable hereunder are subject to the Plan.
13.     
Award Subject to the Plan
. Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Award covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Award covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement; provided that if you terminate your employment with the Company for the reason specified in clause (i) of the definition of "Good Reason" in the Definitions Annex to your employment agreement as in effect as of the date hereof, then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in such employment agreement, you will automatically forfeit all of your rights and interests in the Award in accordance with Section 2 of this Agreement.
14.     
Entire Agreement
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
15.     
Successors and Assigns
. This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
16.     
Governing Law
. You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
17.     
Jurisdiction and Venue
. No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
18.     
Waiver
. The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
19.     
Severability
. By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Award shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that the Award shall be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
20.     
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
. Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
21.     
No Right to Continued Employment
. The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
22.     
Headings
. Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
23.     
Effective Date
. Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
24.     
Signatures
   
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   

Exhibit 99.16
Michael Huseby
March 9, 2009
Dear Michael:
Pursuant to the Company's 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Section 11, the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "") to receive 46,600 restricted shares ("") of NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Committee
Company
Restricted Shares
Common Shares
Grant Date
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Restricted Shares are subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.      Subject to Sections 2 and 3, none of your Restricted Shares will vest and you will forfeit all of them if you do not remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Grant Date through the third anniversary of the Grant Date.
Vesting.
2.     If your employment is terminated as a result of your death, all of the Restricted Shares will vest as of the termination date.
Accelerated Vesting in the Event of Death.
3.      As set forth in attached hereto, your entitlement to Restricted Shares may be affected in the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going-private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto).
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction.
Annex 1
Annex 1
4.      You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Restricted Shares, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions.
5.      You have full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Shares. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, all ordinary (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) cash dividends and distributions paid on your Restricted Shares will be retained by the Company for your account until your Restricted Shares vest and such dividends and distributions will be paid to you (without interest) when your Restricted Shares vest. Such dividends, to the extent retained, shall revert back to the Company if for any reason the Restricted Share upon which such dividends were paid reverts back to the Company.
Right to Vote and Receive Dividends.
6.     . If you wish to make an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to recognize income with respect to the Restricted Shares before they become vested, you must file a Section 83(b) election with the Internal Revenue Service of the Grant Date and provide a copy of that filing to the Company.
Section 83(b) Election
within thirty (30) days
You are strongly encouraged to seek the advice of a tax consultant regarding the advisability of making a Section 83(b) election. You should note that any
A sample Form of Election under Section 83(b) is available upon request from the Company's Tax Department.
taxes you pay as a result of your Section 83(b) election cannot be recovered if your Restricted Shares are forfeited or decline in value. It is your sole responsibility to timely file an election under Section 83(b). You must notify the Company within ten (10) days of filing any such election.
7.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Restricted Shares. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the Restricted Shares, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
8.     It is the Company's intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A"), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
Section 409A.
9.      Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, delivery of the Restricted Shares will be by book-entry credit to an account in your name that the Company has established at a custody agent (the ""). The Company's transfer agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. shall act as the custodian of the Restricted Shares; , the Company may in its sole discretion appoint another custodian to replace Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. On the date your Restricted Shares vest, if you have complied with your obligations under this Agreement and that your tax obligations with respect to the vested Restricted Shares are appropriately satisfied, we will instruct the custodian to electronically transfer your Common Shares to a brokerage or other account on your behalf (or make such other arrangements for the delivery of the Common Shares to you as we reasonably determine).
Delivery.
custodian
however
provided
10.     . You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Right of Offset
11.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
12.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
13.     The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 3 and Annex 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be "terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event." Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment.
14.      The Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
Restricted Shares Subject to the Plan.
15.      Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Restricted Shares covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Restricted Shares covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement.
16.      The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
17.     This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
18.     You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
Jurisdiction and Venue.
19.     . You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the Common Shares are publicly-traded securities and (ii) Common Shares may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under
Securities Law Acknowledgments
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
20.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
21.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
22.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Restricted Shares covered hereby shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
23.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
No Right to Continued Employment
24.      The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings.
25.      Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Grant Date.
Effective Date.
26.     Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures.
   
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   
In the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company or a "going private transaction," as defined below, your entitlement to Restricted Shares shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the "surviving entity," as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of your unvested Restricted Shares multiplied by (ii) the "offer price per share," the "acquisition price per share" or the "merger price per share," each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you an award of shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms and with a value equivalent to your unvested Restricted Shares which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Paragraph 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Paragraph 1 or 2 shall become payable to you at the earlier of (a) the date on which your Restricted Shares are scheduled to vest (provided that you remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates through such date), or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for "good reason," as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in the event that your rights in the Restricted Shares are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity
Change of Control
or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
 
"" means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a "") which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Company's cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Paragraph 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Paragraph 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of "" the Company's New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Surviving entity
parent entity
substantially all
 
"" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going private transaction
 
"" means
Good reason
 
a.     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or
material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
 
b.     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
c.     the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
d.     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Paragraph 1.
"" shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per Share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Offer price per share
Offer
 
"" shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ""), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share
Merger
 
"" shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Company's voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
Acquisition price per share
   

Exhibit 99.17
Michael Huseby March 9, 2009 Dear Michael:
Pursuant to the Companys 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ), on March 5, 2009 (the ) you were selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Paragraph 14, the ) of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ) to receive nonqualified stock options (the ) to purchase 248,500 shares of NY Group Class A Common Stock of the Company (the ) at a price of $10.24 per share.
Plan
Effective Date
Committee
Company
Options
Class A Common Stock
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this ) have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Options are granted subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
. If you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or any Affiliate through the respective dates below, the Options will become exercisable in accordance with the following schedule:
1.     
Vesting
 
. You may exercise the Options that become vested and exercisable by giving written notice to the Secretary of the Company specifying the number of shares of Class A Common Stock as to which the Options are being exercised (the ), together with a copy of this Agreement. Unless the Company chooses to settle such exercise in cash, shares of Class A Common Stock, or a combination thereof pursuant to Paragraph 3, you will be required to deliver to the Company within such time period as the Company may require, payment in full of the exercise price due on account of such exercise. You may pay the exercise price by cash, by certified check, by surrendering shares of Class A Common Stock or by any combination thereof. Class A Common Stock used to pay the exercise price pursuant to this Paragraph 2 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day preceding the date of exercise.
2.     
Exercise
Exercise Notice
. Upon receipt of the Exercise Notice, the Company may elect, in lieu of issuing shares of Class A Common Stock, to settle the exercise covered by such notice by paying you an amount equal to the product obtained by
3.     
Option Spread
multiplying (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Class A Common Stock on the date of exercise over the per share exercise price of the Options (the ) by (ii) the number of shares of Class A Common Stock specified in the Exercise Notice. The amount payable to you in these circumstances may be paid by the Company either in cash or in shares of Class A Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the Option Spread, or a combination thereof, as the Company shall determine. Class A Common Stock used to pay the Option Spread pursuant to this Paragraph 3 will be valued at the Fair Market Value as of the day the Exercise Notice is received by the Company.
Option Spread
. The Options will terminate automatically and without further notice on September 5, 2014, or at any of the following dates, if earlier:
4.     
Expiration
 
For the avoidance of doubt, Section 4(B) above shall not apply to any termination of your employment by the Company.
For purposes of this Agreement,  means, as determined by the Committee, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement,  means your inability to perform for six (6) continuous months substantially all the essential duties of your occupation, as determined by the Committee.
Disability
For purposes of this Agreement,  means the voluntary termination by you of your employment with the Company and its Affiliates at such time as (i) you have attained at least the age of fifty-five (55) and (ii) you have been employed
Retirement
by the Company or its Affiliates for at least five (5) years, that the Company may nevertheless decide, in its sole discretion, not to treat your termination of employment as a Retirement hereunder. Treatment of your termination of employment as a Retirement hereunder shall be further subject to your execution (and the effectiveness) of a retirement agreement to the Companys satisfaction, including, without limitation (to the extent desired by the Company), non-compete, non-disparagement, non-solicitation, confidentiality and further cooperation obligations/restrictions on you as well as a general release by you of the Company and its Affiliates. The above definition of Retirement is solely for purposes of this Agreement and shall not, in any way, create or imply any obligations of the Company or any of its Affiliates (under any other agreement or otherwise) with respect to any such termination of your employment.
provided
Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Paragraph 4, in the event of your death during the period that your Options are exercisable, whether death occurs before or after you cease employment, the Options that are exercisable at the time of your death shall remain exercisable by your estate or beneficiary until the later of the first (1st) anniversary of your death and September 5, 2014.
. As set forth in attached hereto, the Options may be affected in the event of a Change of Control or a going private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto) of the Company.
5.     
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction
Appendix 1
Appendix 1
. You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of exercising the Options and receiving shares of Class A Common Stock and cash. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
6.     
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the exercise of the Options, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
It is the Companys intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute non-qualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code (Section 409A) and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a separation from service as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a specified employee (within the meaning of Section
7.     
Section 409A.
409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
. You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Options, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
8.     
Transfer Restrictions
. The Options are not intended to qualify as incentive stock options within the meaning of Section 422A of the Code.
9.     
Non-Qualification as ISO
. You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the shares of Class A Common Stock are publicly-traded securities and (ii) the shares of Class A Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Options may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
10.     
Securities Law Acknowledgments
. This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects shall be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
11.     
Governing Law
. You hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States of America located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You hereby agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in any manner as may be permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof.
12.     
Jurisdiction and Venue
. You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute non-qualified deferred compensation pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
13.     
Right of Offset
. For purposes of this Agreement, the term Committee means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
14.     
The Committee
. The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
15.     
Committee Discretion
. The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 5 and Appendix 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
16.     
Amendment
. The Options granted by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
17.     
Options Subject to the Plan
. Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced, such modification, renewal or replacement shall not extend the time any Options may be exercised beyond the time provided herein or in such original employment agreement), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Options covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Options covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
18.     
Entire Agreement
provided that
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
19.     
Successors and Assigns
. No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
20.     
Waiver
. The terms or conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
21.     
Severability
. By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that all shares of Class A Common Stock and cash received upon each exercise of the Options shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as wages or salary in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In
22.     
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares of Class A Common Stock and cash be exempt from inclusion in wages or salary for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
. Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
23.     
No Right to Continued Employment
. The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
24.     
Headings
. Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
25.     
Effective Date
. Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
26.     
Signatures
 
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
 
In the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going private transaction, as defined below, your entitlement to exercise the Options shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the surviving entity, as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, to the extent that the Options have not been exercised and have not expired (the ), no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of common shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options multiplied by (ii) the excess of (x) the offer price per share, the acquisition price per share or the merger price per share, each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable, over (y) the exercise price of the shares subject or relating to the Outstanding Options, or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you in substitution for your Outstanding Options an award of options for shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms with a value equivalent to the Outstanding Options and which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
Outstanding Options
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your rights in the Outstanding Options into a right to receive an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Section 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Section 1 or 2 shall become payable to you, and the substitute options of the surviving entity provided in Section 1 will become exercisable (1) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were not exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, at the earlier of (a) the date on which the Outstanding Options would otherwise have become exercisable hereunder had they continued in effect, or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for good reason, as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in
the event that your rights in the Outstanding Options are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1, or (2) with respect to the Outstanding Options that were exercisable on the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction, as the case may be, the substitute options shall become exercisable immediately and the cash awards shall become payable promptly. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
Change of Control means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. New York City Metropolitan Area means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
Surviving entity means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a parent entity) which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Companys cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such
transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Section 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of substantially all the Companys New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Going private transaction means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Good reason means
(i)     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Effective Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
(ii)     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
(iii)     the Companys requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
(iv)     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Section 1.
Offer price per share shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity
Offer
making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger
Acquisition price per share shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Companys voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
 
 

Exhibit 99.18
Michael Huseby
March 9, 2009
Dear Michael:
Pursuant to the 2006 Cash Incentive Plan (the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors to receive a contingent cash award (the "") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Company
Award
Effective Date
Capitalized terms used, but not defined, in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
. In accordance with the terms of this Performance Award Agreement, the target amount of your contingent Award is $615,000 (the ""), which may be increased or decreased to the extent the performance objectives set forth on hereto (the "") have been attained in respect of the period from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 (the ""). The Award, calculated in accordance with Annex 1 attached hereto, will become payable to you upon the date on which the Committee (as defined in Section 10 below) determines the Company's performance against the Objectives (the "") , that you have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through the Payment Date.
1.     
Amount and Payment of Award
Target Award
Annex 1
Objectives
Performance Period
Payment Date
provided
. If, on the Payment Date, you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates for any reason, other than as a result of your death, then you will automatically forfeit all of your rights and interest in the Award regardless of whether the Objectives are attained.
2.     
Termination of Employment
. If, prior to the end of the Performance Period, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive, promptly (and in any event within 30 days) following the date of such termination, payment of the Target Award prorated for the number of completed months of your employment during the Performance Period prior to such termination. If after the end of the Performance Period but prior to the Payment Date, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive on the Payment Date the Award, if any, to which you would have been entitled on the Payment Date had your employment not been so terminated.
3.     
Death
.
4.     
Going Private Transaction or Change in Control
a.     Going Private Transaction. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if at any time a Going Private Transaction (as defined below) occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, the Target Award shall become payable to you whether or not the Objectives have been attained at the earlier of (i) January 1, 2012, , that you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through such date or (ii) the date subsequent to the Going Private Transaction on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (A) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause (as defined below) or (B) by you for Good Reason (as defined below). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you become entitled to payment of the Target Award by virtue of a termination in accordance with (ii)(A) or (ii)(B) of this Section 4(a) and are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 409A of the IRC"), the Target Award shall be paid to you on the earlier of: (i) January 1, 2012, (ii) the date that is six months from your date of employment termination and (iii) any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC. In the event of such a determination, the Company shall promptly following the date of your employment termination set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to the previous sentence); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of your employment termination.
provided
provided
b.     Change in Control. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement but subject to the subsections of this Section 4(b), if at any time a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, you will be entitled to the payment of the Target Award whether or not the Objectives have been attained.
i.     If the actual Change of Control:
(A)     is a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC or payment of the Award promptly upon such event is otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the Award), then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company promptly following the Change of Control; or
(B)     is not a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC and payment of the Award promptly upon such event is not otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC, then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company (together with interest thereon pursuant to Section 4(b)(ii) below) on the earliest to occur of:
(1)     any subsequent date on which you are no longer employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates for any reason other than termination of your employment by one of such entities for Cause (provided that if you are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the IRC, six months from such date);
(2)     any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC; or
(3)     January 1, 2012.
ii.     Upon any Change of Control, to the extent any amounts are due to be paid to you at a later date pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above, the Company shall promptly following the Change of Control set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of the Change of Control and shall adjust annually based on the average of such rate for the ten business days prior to each anniversary of the Change of Control.
provided
If and to the extent that any payment is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the IRC and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then such payment shall be made to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A of the IRC under applicable regulations.
under this Section 4
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an Affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (i) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined below) or (ii) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (i) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants
Change of Control
of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants.
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going Private Transaction
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means: (a) without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Going Private Transaction including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties; (b) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you; (c) the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to the Going Private Transaction except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or (d) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor.
Good Reason
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
. Except for a right which has accrued to receive a payment on account of the Award, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect on the Payment Date.
5.     
Termination
. You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Award other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
6.     
Transfer Restrictions
. The Plan will at all times be unfunded and, except as set forth in Section 4(b) of this Agreement, no provision will at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company or any of its Affiliates for payment of any benefits under the Plan, including, without limitation, those covered by this Agreement. Your right or that of your estate to receive payments under this Agreement shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, including any rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b). Neither you nor your estate shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company other than the assets held by the rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b).
7.     
Unfunded Obligation
. You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Award. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents. If, in connection with the Award, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
8.     
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
You hereby agree that if the Company shall owe you any amount that does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A of the IRC (the "") under this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset against the Company-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any amounts that you may owe to the Company or its Affiliates of whatever nature.
9.     
Right of Offset.
Company-Owed Amount
. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
10.     
The Committee
Committee
. The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
11.     
Committee Discretion
. The Committee reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend or revise the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee may not make any such amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial) without your consent. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
12.     
Amendment
. The Award and all other amounts payable hereunder are subject to the Plan.
13.     
Award Subject to the Plan
. Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Award covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Award covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
14.     
Entire Agreement
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
15.     
Successors and Assigns
. This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
16.     
Governing Law
. You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
17.     
Jurisdiction and Venue
. No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
18.     
Waiver
. The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
19.     
Severability
. By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Award shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that the Award shall be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
20.     
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
. Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
21.     
No Right to Continued Employment
. The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
22.     
Headings
. Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
23.     
Effective Date
. Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
24.     
Signatures
   
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   

Exhibit 99.19
Patrick Dolan
March 9, 2009
Dear Patrick:
Pursuant to the Company's 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Section 11, the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "") to receive 18,200 restricted shares ("") of NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Committee
Company
Restricted Shares
Common Shares
Grant Date
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Restricted Shares are subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.      Subject to Sections 2 and 3, none of your Restricted Shares will vest and you will forfeit all of them if you do not remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Grant Date through the third anniversary of the Grant Date.
Vesting.
2.     If your employment is terminated as a result of your death, all of the Restricted Shares will vest as of the termination date.
Accelerated Vesting in the Event of Death.
3.      As set forth in attached hereto, your entitlement to Restricted Shares may be affected in the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going-private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto).
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction.
Annex 1
Annex 1
4.      You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Restricted Shares, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions.
5.      You have full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Shares. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, all ordinary (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) cash dividends and distributions paid on your Restricted Shares will be retained by the Company for your account until your Restricted Shares vest and such dividends and distributions will be paid to you (without interest) when your Restricted Shares vest. Such dividends, to the extent retained, shall revert back to the Company if for any reason the Restricted Share upon which such dividends were paid reverts back to the Company.
Right to Vote and Receive Dividends.
6.     . If you wish to make an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to recognize income with respect to the Restricted Shares before they become vested, you must file a Section 83(b) election with the Internal Revenue Service of the Grant Date and provide a copy of that filing to the Company.
Section 83(b) Election
within thirty (30) days
You are strongly encouraged to seek the advice of a tax consultant regarding the advisability of making a Section 83(b) election. You should note that any  
A sample Form of Election under Section 83(b) is available upon request from the Company's Tax Department.
taxes you pay as a result of your Section 83(b) election cannot be recovered if your Restricted Shares are forfeited or decline in value. It is your sole responsibility to timely file an election under Section 83(b). You must notify the Company within ten (10) days of filing any such election.
7.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Restricted Shares. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the Restricted Shares, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
8.     It is the Company's intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A"), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
Section 409A.
9.      Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, delivery of the Restricted Shares will be by book-entry credit to an account in your name that the Company has established at a custody agent (the ""). The Company's transfer agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. shall act as the custodian of the Restricted Shares; , the Company may in its sole discretion appoint another custodian to replace Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. On the date your Restricted Shares vest, if you have complied with your obligations under this Agreement and that your tax obligations with respect to the vested Restricted Shares are appropriately satisfied, we will instruct the custodian to electronically transfer your Common Shares to a brokerage or other account on your behalf (or make such other arrangements for the delivery of the Common Shares to you as we reasonably determine).
Delivery.
custodian
however
provided
10.     . You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Right of Offset
11.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
12.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
13.     The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 3 and Annex 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be "terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event." Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment.
14.      The Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
Restricted Shares Subject to the Plan.
15.      Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Restricted Shares covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Restricted Shares covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement.
16.      The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
17.     This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
18.     You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
Jurisdiction and Venue.
19.     . You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the Common Shares are publicly-traded securities and (ii) Common Shares may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under
Securities Law Acknowledgments
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
20.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
21.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
22.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Restricted Shares covered hereby shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
23.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
No Right to Continued Employment
24.      The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings.
25.      Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Grant Date.
Effective Date.
26.     Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures.
   
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   
In the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company or a "going private transaction," as defined below, your entitlement to Restricted Shares shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the "surviving entity," as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of your unvested Restricted Shares multiplied by (ii) the "offer price per share," the "acquisition price per share" or the "merger price per share," each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you an award of shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms and with a value equivalent to your unvested Restricted Shares which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Paragraph 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Paragraph 1 or 2 shall become payable to you at the earlier of (a) the date on which your Restricted Shares are scheduled to vest (provided that you remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates through such date), or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for "good reason," as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in the event that your rights in the Restricted Shares are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity
Change of Control
or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
 
"" means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a "") which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Company's cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Paragraph 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Paragraph 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of "" the Company's New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Surviving entity
parent entity
substantially all
 
"" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going private transaction
 
"" means
Good reason
 
a.     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or
material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
 
b.     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
c.     the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
d.     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Paragraph 1.
"" shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per Share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Offer price per share
Offer
 
"" shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ""), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share
Merger
 
"" shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Company's voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
Acquisition price per share
   

Exhibit 99.20
Patrick Dolan
March 9, 2009
Dear Patrick:
Pursuant to the 2006 Cash Incentive Plan (the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors to receive a contingent cash award (the "") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Company
Award
Effective Date
Capitalized terms used, but not defined, in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
. In accordance with the terms of this Performance Award Agreement, the target amount of your contingent Award is $240,000 (the ""), which may be increased or decreased to the extent the performance objectives set forth on hereto (the "") have been attained in respect of the period from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 (the ""). The Award, calculated in accordance with Annex 1 attached hereto, will become payable to you upon the date on which the Committee (as defined in Section 10 below) determines the Company's performance against the Objectives (the "") , that you have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through the Payment Date.
1.     
Amount and Payment of Award
Target Award
Annex 1
Objectives
Performance Period
Payment Date
provided
. If, on the Payment Date, you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates for any reason, other than as a result of your death, then you will automatically forfeit all of your rights and interest in the Award regardless of whether the Objectives are attained.
2.     
Termination of Employment
. If, prior to the end of the Performance Period, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive, promptly (and in any event within 30 days) following the date of such termination, payment of the Target Award prorated for the number of completed months of your employment during the Performance Period prior to such termination. If after the end of the Performance Period but prior to the Payment Date, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive on the Payment Date the Award, if any, to which you would have been entitled on the Payment Date had your employment not been so terminated.
3.     
Death
.
4.     
Going Private Transaction or Change in Control
a.     Going Private Transaction. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if at any time a Going Private Transaction (as defined below) occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, the Target Award shall become payable to you whether or not the Objectives have been attained at the earlier of (i) January 1, 2012, , that you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through such date or (ii) the date subsequent to the Going Private Transaction on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (A) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause (as defined below) or (B) by you for Good Reason (as defined below). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you become entitled to payment of the Target Award by virtue of a termination in accordance with (ii)(A) or (ii)(B) of this Section 4(a) and are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 409A of the IRC"), the Target Award shall be paid to you on the earlier of: (i) January 1, 2012, (ii) the date that is six months from your date of employment termination and (iii) any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC. In the event of such a determination, the Company shall promptly following the date of your employment termination set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to the previous sentence); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of your employment termination.
provided
provided
b.     Change in Control. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement but subject to the subsections of this Section 4(b), if at any time a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, you will be entitled to the payment of the Target Award whether or not the Objectives have been attained.
i.     If the actual Change of Control:
(A)     is a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC or payment of the Award promptly upon such event is otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the Award), then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company promptly following the Change of Control; or
(B)     is not a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC and payment of the Award promptly upon such event is not otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC, then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company (together with interest thereon pursuant to Section 4(b)(ii) below) on the earliest to occur of:
(1)     any subsequent date on which you are no longer employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates for any reason other than termination of your employment by one of such entities for Cause (provided that if you are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the IRC, six months from such date);
(2)     any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC; or
(3)     January 1, 2012.
ii.     Upon any Change of Control, to the extent any amounts are due to be paid to you at a later date pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above, the Company shall promptly following the Change of Control set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of the Change of Control and shall adjust annually based on the average of such rate for the ten business days prior to each anniversary of the Change of Control.
provided
If and to the extent that any payment is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the IRC and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then such payment shall be made to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A of the IRC under applicable regulations.
under this Section 4
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an Affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (i) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined below) or (ii) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (i) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants
Change of Control
of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants.
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going Private Transaction
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means: (a) without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Going Private Transaction including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties; (b) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you; (c) the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to the Going Private Transaction except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or (d) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor.
Good Reason
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
. Except for a right which has accrued to receive a payment on account of the Award, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect on the Payment Date.
5.     
Termination
. You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Award other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
6.     
Transfer Restrictions
. The Plan will at all times be unfunded and, except as set forth in Section 4(b) of this Agreement, no provision will at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company or any of its Affiliates for payment of any benefits under the Plan, including, without limitation, those covered by this Agreement. Your right or that of your estate to receive payments under this Agreement shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, including any rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b). Neither you nor your estate shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company other than the assets held by the rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b).
7.     
Unfunded Obligation
. You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Award. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents. If, in connection with the Award, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
8.     
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
You hereby agree that if the Company shall owe you any amount that does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A of the IRC (the "") under this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset against the Company-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any amounts that you may owe to the Company or its Affiliates of whatever nature.
9.     
Right of Offset.
Company-Owed Amount
. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
10.     
The Committee
Committee
. The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
11.     
Committee Discretion
. The Committee reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend or revise the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee may not make any such amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial) without your consent. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
12.     
Amendment
. The Award and all other amounts payable hereunder are subject to the Plan.
13.     
Award Subject to the Plan
. Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Award covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Award covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
14.     
Entire Agreement
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
15.     
Successors and Assigns
. This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
16.     
Governing Law
. You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
17.     
Jurisdiction and Venue
. No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
18.     
Waiver
. The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
19.     
Severability
. By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Award shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that the Award shall be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
20.     
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
. Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
21.     
No Right to Continued Employment
. The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
22.     
Headings
. Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
23.     
Effective Date
. Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
24.     
Signatures
   
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   

Exhibit 99.21
Thomas Dolan
March 9, 2009
Dear Thomas:
Pursuant to the Company's 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Section 11, the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "") to receive 37,900 restricted shares ("") of NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Committee
Company
Restricted Shares
Common Shares
Grant Date
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Restricted Shares are subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.      Subject to Sections 2 and 3, none of your Restricted Shares will vest and you will forfeit all of them if you do not remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Grant Date through the third anniversary of the Grant Date.
Vesting.
2.     If your employment is terminated as a result of your death, all of the Restricted Shares will vest as of the termination date.
Accelerated Vesting in the Event of Death.
3.      As set forth in attached hereto, your entitlement to Restricted Shares may be affected in the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going-private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto).
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction.
Annex 1
Annex 1
4.      You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Restricted Shares, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions.
5.      You have full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Shares. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, all ordinary (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) cash dividends and distributions paid on your Restricted Shares will be retained by the Company for your account until your Restricted Shares vest and such dividends and distributions will be paid to you (without interest) when your Restricted Shares vest. Such dividends, to the extent retained, shall revert back to the Company if for any reason the Restricted Share upon which such dividends were paid reverts back to the Company.
Right to Vote and Receive Dividends.
6.     . If you wish to make an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to recognize income with respect to the Restricted Shares before they become vested, you must file a Section 83(b) election with the Internal Revenue Service of the Grant Date and provide a copy of that filing to the Company.
Section 83(b) Election
within thirty (30) days
You are strongly encouraged to seek the advice of a tax consultant regarding the advisability of making a Section 83(b) election. You should note that any  
A sample Form of Election under Section 83(b) is available upon request from the Company's Tax Department.
taxes you pay as a result of your Section 83(b) election cannot be recovered if your Restricted Shares are forfeited or decline in value. It is your sole responsibility to timely file an election under Section 83(b). You must notify the Company within ten (10) days of filing any such election.
7.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Restricted Shares. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the Restricted Shares, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
8.     It is the Company's intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A"), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
Section 409A.
9.      Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, delivery of the Restricted Shares will be by book-entry credit to an account in your name that the Company has established at a custody agent (the ""). The Company's transfer agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. shall act as the custodian of the Restricted Shares; , the Company may in its sole discretion appoint another custodian to replace Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. On the date your Restricted Shares vest, if you have complied with your obligations under this Agreement and that your tax obligations with respect to the vested Restricted Shares are appropriately satisfied, we will instruct the custodian to electronically transfer your Common Shares to a brokerage or other account on your behalf (or make such other arrangements for the delivery of the Common Shares to you as we reasonably determine).
Delivery.
custodian
however
provided
10.     . You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Right of Offset
11.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
12.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
13.     The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 3 and Annex 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be "terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event." Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment.
14.      The Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
Restricted Shares Subject to the Plan.
15.      Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Restricted Shares covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Restricted Shares covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement.
16.      The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
17.     This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
18.     You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
Jurisdiction and Venue.
19.     . You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the Common Shares are publicly-traded securities and (ii) Common Shares may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under
Securities Law Acknowledgments
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
20.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
21.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
22.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Restricted Shares covered hereby shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
23.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
No Right to Continued Employment
24.      The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings.
25.      Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Grant Date.
Effective Date.
26.     Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures.
   
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   
In the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company or a "going private transaction," as defined below, your entitlement to Restricted Shares shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the "surviving entity," as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of your unvested Restricted Shares multiplied by (ii) the "offer price per share," the "acquisition price per share" or the "merger price per share," each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you an award of shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms and with a value equivalent to your unvested Restricted Shares which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Paragraph 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Paragraph 1 or 2 shall become payable to you at the earlier of (a) the date on which your Restricted Shares are scheduled to vest (provided that you remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates through such date), or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for "good reason," as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in the event that your rights in the Restricted Shares are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity
Change of Control
or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
 
"" means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a "") which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Company's cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Paragraph 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Paragraph 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of "" the Company's New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Surviving entity
parent entity
substantially all
 
"" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going private transaction
 
"" means
Good reason
 
a.     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or
material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
 
b.     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
c.     the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
d.     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Paragraph 1.
"" shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per Share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Offer price per share
Offer
 
"" shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ""), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share
Merger
 
"" shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Company's voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
Acquisition price per share
   

Exhibit 99.22
Thomas Dolan
March 9, 2009
Dear Thomas:
Pursuant to the 2006 Cash Incentive Plan (the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors to receive a contingent cash award (the "") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Company
Award
Effective Date
Capitalized terms used, but not defined, in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
. In accordance with the terms of this Performance Award Agreement, the target amount of your contingent Award is $500,000 (the ""), which may be increased or decreased to the extent the performance objectives set forth on hereto (the "") have been attained in respect of the period from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 (the ""). The Award, calculated in accordance with Annex 1 attached hereto, will become payable to you upon the date on which the Committee (as defined in Section 10 below) determines the Company's performance against the Objectives (the "") , that you have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through the Payment Date.
1.     
Amount and Payment of Award
Target Award
Annex 1
Objectives
Performance Period
Payment Date
provided
. If, on the Payment Date, you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates for any reason, other than as a result of your death, then you will automatically forfeit all of your rights and interest in the Award regardless of whether the Objectives are attained.
2.     
Termination of Employment
. If, prior to the end of the Performance Period, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive, promptly (and in any event within 30 days) following the date of such termination, payment of the Target Award prorated for the number of completed months of your employment during the Performance Period prior to such termination. If after the end of the Performance Period but prior to the Payment Date, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive on the Payment Date the Award, if any, to which you would have been entitled on the Payment Date had your employment not been so terminated.
3.     
Death
.
4.     
Going Private Transaction or Change in Control
a.     Going Private Transaction. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if at any time a Going Private Transaction (as defined below) occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, the Target Award shall become payable to you whether or not the Objectives have been attained at the earlier of (i) January 1, 2012, , that you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through such date or (ii) the date subsequent to the Going Private Transaction on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (A) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause (as defined below) or (B) by you for Good Reason (as defined below). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you become entitled to payment of the Target Award by virtue of a termination in accordance with (ii)(A) or (ii)(B) of this Section 4(a) and are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 409A of the IRC"), the Target Award shall be paid to you on the earlier of: (i) January 1, 2012, (ii) the date that is six months from your date of employment termination and (iii) any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC. In the event of such a determination, the Company shall promptly following the date of your employment termination set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to the previous sentence); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of your employment termination.
provided
provided
b.     Change in Control. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement but subject to the subsections of this Section 4(b), if at any time a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, you will be entitled to the payment of the Target Award whether or not the Objectives have been attained.
i.     If the actual Change of Control:
(A)     is a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC or payment of the Award promptly upon such event is otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the Award), then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company promptly following the Change of Control; or
(B)     is not a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC and payment of the Award promptly upon such event is not otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC, then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company (together with interest thereon pursuant to Section 4(b)(ii) below) on the earliest to occur of:
(1)     any subsequent date on which you are no longer employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates for any reason other than termination of your employment by one of such entities for Cause (provided that if you are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the IRC, six months from such date);
(2)     any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC; or
(3)     January 1, 2012.
ii.     Upon any Change of Control, to the extent any amounts are due to be paid to you at a later date pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above, the Company shall promptly following the Change of Control set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of the Change of Control and shall adjust annually based on the average of such rate for the ten business days prior to each anniversary of the Change of Control.
provided
If and to the extent that any payment is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the IRC and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then such payment shall be made to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A of the IRC under applicable regulations.
under this Section 4
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an Affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (i) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined below) or (ii) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (i) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants
Change of Control
of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants.
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going Private Transaction
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means: (a) without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Going Private Transaction including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties; (b) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you; (c) the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to the Going Private Transaction except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or (d) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor.
Good Reason
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
. Except for a right which has accrued to receive a payment on account of the Award, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect on the Payment Date.
5.     
Termination
. You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Award other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
6.     
Transfer Restrictions
. The Plan will at all times be unfunded and, except as set forth in Section 4(b) of this Agreement, no provision will at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company or any of its Affiliates for payment of any benefits under the Plan, including, without limitation, those covered by this Agreement. Your right or that of your estate to receive payments under this Agreement shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, including any rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b). Neither you nor your estate shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company other than the assets held by the rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b).
7.     
Unfunded Obligation
. You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Award. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents. If, in connection with the Award, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
8.     
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
You hereby agree that if the Company shall owe you any amount that does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A of the IRC (the "") under this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset against the Company-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any amounts that you may owe to the Company or its Affiliates of whatever nature.
9.     
Right of Offset.
Company-Owed Amount
. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
10.     
The Committee
Committee
. The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
11.     
Committee Discretion
. The Committee reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend or revise the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee may not make any such amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial) without your consent. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
12.     
Amendment
. The Award and all other amounts payable hereunder are subject to the Plan.
13.     
Award Subject to the Plan
. Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Award covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Award covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
14.     
Entire Agreement
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
15.     
Successors and Assigns
. This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
16.     
Governing Law
. You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
17.     
Jurisdiction and Venue
. No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
18.     
Waiver
. The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
19.     
Severability
. By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Award shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that the Award shall be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
20.     
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
. Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
21.     
No Right to Continued Employment
. The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
22.     
Headings
. Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
23.     
Effective Date
. Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
24.     
Signatures
   
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   

Exhibit 99.23
Brian Sweeney
March 9, 2009
Dear Brian:
Pursuant to the Company's 2006 Employee Stock Plan (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (as more fully described in Section 11, the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "") to receive 18,200 restricted shares ("") of NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Committee
Company
Restricted Shares
Common Shares
Grant Date
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Restricted Shares are subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
1.      Subject to Sections 2 and 3, none of your Restricted Shares will vest and you will forfeit all of them if you do not remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Grant Date through the third anniversary of the Grant Date.
Vesting.
2.     If your employment is terminated as a result of your death, all of the Restricted Shares will vest as of the termination date.
Accelerated Vesting in the Event of Death.
3.      As set forth in attached hereto, your entitlement to Restricted Shares may be affected in the event of a Change of Control of the Company or a going-private transaction (each as defined in attached hereto).
Change of Control/Going Private Transaction.
Annex 1
Annex 1
4.      You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Restricted Shares, other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
Transfer Restrictions.
5.      You have full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Shares. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, all ordinary (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) cash dividends and distributions paid on your Restricted Shares will be retained by the Company for your account until your Restricted Shares vest and such dividends and distributions will be paid to you (without interest) when your Restricted Shares vest. Such dividends, to the extent retained, shall revert back to the Company if for any reason the Restricted Share upon which such dividends were paid reverts back to the Company.
Right to Vote and Receive Dividends.
6.     . If you wish to make an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to recognize income with respect to the Restricted Shares before they become vested, you must file a Section 83(b) election with the Internal Revenue Service of the Grant Date and provide a copy of that filing to the Company.
Section 83(b) Election
within thirty (30) days
You are strongly encouraged to seek the advice of a tax consultant regarding the advisability of making a Section 83(b) election. You should note that any
A sample Form of Election under Section 83(b) is available upon request from the Company's Tax Department.
taxes you pay as a result of your Section 83(b) election cannot be recovered if your Restricted Shares are forfeited or decline in value. It is your sole responsibility to timely file an election under Section 83(b). You must notify the Company within ten (10) days of filing any such election.
7.     . You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Restricted Shares. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents.
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
If, in connection with the Restricted Shares, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan.
8.     It is the Company's intent that payments under this Agreement are exempt from Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A"), and that the Agreement be administered accordingly. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A and as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death).
Section 409A.
9.      Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, delivery of the Restricted Shares will be by book-entry credit to an account in your name that the Company has established at a custody agent (the ""). The Company's transfer agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. shall act as the custodian of the Restricted Shares; , the Company may in its sole discretion appoint another custodian to replace Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. On the date your Restricted Shares vest, if you have complied with your obligations under this Agreement and that your tax obligations with respect to the vested Restricted Shares are appropriately satisfied, we will instruct the custodian to electronically transfer your Common Shares to a brokerage or other account on your behalf (or make such other arrangements for the delivery of the Common Shares to you as we reasonably determine).
Delivery.
custodian
however
provided
10.     . You hereby agree that the Company shall have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Class A Common Stock, cash or other property under this Agreement to the extent that it does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A, any outstanding amounts of whatever nature that you then owe to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Right of Offset
11.     . For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
The Committee
12.     . The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Committee Discretion
13.     The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee shall not make any amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial), without your consent. No consent shall be required for amendments made pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan, except that, for purposes of Section 19 of the Plan, Section 3 and Annex 1 of this Agreement are deemed to be "terms of an Award Agreement expressly refer[ring] to an Adjustment Event." Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
Amendment.
14.      The Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement are subject to the Plan.
Restricted Shares Subject to the Plan.
15.      Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Restricted Shares covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Restricted Shares covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement.
16.      The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
17.     This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
18.     You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
Jurisdiction and Venue.
19.     . You hereby acknowledge and confirm to the Company that (i) you are aware that the Common Shares are publicly-traded securities and (ii) Common Shares may not be sold or otherwise transferred unless such sale or transfer is registered under
Securities Law Acknowledgments
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the securities laws of any applicable state or other jurisdiction, or is exempt from such registration.
20.     . No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
21.     . The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
Severability
22.     . By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Restricted Shares covered hereby shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that all such shares be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
23.     . Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
No Right to Continued Employment
24.      The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Headings.
25.      Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Grant Date.
Effective Date.
26.     Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
Signatures.
   
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   
In the event of a "Change of Control" of the Company or a "going private transaction," as defined below, your entitlement to Restricted Shares shall be as follows:
1.     If the Company or the "surviving entity," as defined below, has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall, no later than the effective date of the transaction which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction either (A) convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to (i) the number of your unvested Restricted Shares multiplied by (ii) the "offer price per share," the "acquisition price per share" or the "merger price per share," each as defined below, whichever of such amounts is applicable or (B) arrange to have the surviving entity grant to you an award of shares of common stock (or partnership units) of the surviving entity on the same terms and with a value equivalent to your unvested Restricted Shares which will, in the good faith determination of the Committee, provide you with an equivalent profit potential.
2.     If the Company or the surviving entity does not have shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or on the over-the-counter market as reported on NASDAQ, the Committee shall convert your unvested Restricted Shares into an amount of cash equal to the amount calculated as per Paragraph 1(A) above.
3.     The cash award provided in Paragraph 1 or 2 shall become payable to you at the earlier of (a) the date on which your Restricted Shares are scheduled to vest (provided that you remain continuously employed with the Company or one of its Affiliates through such date), or (b) the date on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (i) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction, (ii) by you for "good reason," as defined below, if such termination occurs within three (3) years of the Change of Control or going private transaction or (iii) by you for any reason at least six (6) months, but not more than nine (9) months after the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction; provided that clause (iii) herein shall not apply in the event that your rights in the Restricted Shares are converted into a right to receive an amount of cash in accordance with paragraph (A) of Section 1. The amount payable in cash shall be payable together with interest from the effective date of the Change of Control or going private transaction until the date of payment at (a) the weighted average cost of capital of the Company immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Change of Control or going private transaction, or (b) if the Company (or the surviving entity) sets aside the funds in a trust or other funding arrangement, the actual earnings of such trust or other funding arrangement.
4.     As used herein,
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity
Change of Control
or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
 
"" means the entity that owns, directly or indirectly, after consummation of any transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned directly or indirectly by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction. If any such entity is at least majority-owned, directly or indirectly, by any entity (a "") which has shares of common stock (or partnership units) traded on a national stock exchange or the over-the-counter market, as reported on NASDAQ, then such parent entity shall be deemed to be the surviving entity provided that if there shall be more than one such parent entity, the parent entity closest to ownership of the Company's cable television systems shall be deemed to be the surviving entity. If in connection with any transaction, a Change of Control or going private transaction occurs and no entity shall own, after consummation of such transaction, substantially all the cable television systems owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to consummation of such transaction, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this Paragraph 4 to the contrary, there shall not be deemed to be a surviving entity so that the provisions of Paragraph 1(B) shall not be applicable. Ownership of "" the Company's New York City Metropolitan Area cable television systems shall mean ownership, after consummation of such transaction (or series of related transactions), of an aggregate of at least eighty percent (80%) of the basic subscribers of all the cable television systems owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in the New York City Metropolitan Area prior to such transaction (or series of related transactions).
Surviving entity
parent entity
substantially all
 
"" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going private transaction
 
"" means
Good reason
 
a.     without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Change of Control including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or
material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties;
 
b.     any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you;
c.     the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to such event except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or
d.     any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Paragraph 1.
"" shall mean, in the case of a tender offer or exchange offer which results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (an ""), the greater of (i) the highest price per share of common stock paid pursuant to the Offer, or (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of a Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock in the Offer shall be valued in determining the Offer Price per Share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity making such offer or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Offer price per share
Offer
 
"" shall mean, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, exchange or other disposition of assets that results in a Change of Control or going private transaction (a ""), the greater of (i) the fixed or formula price for the acquisition of shares of common stock occurring pursuant to the Merger, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction. Any securities or property which are part or all of the consideration paid for shares of common stock pursuant to the Merger shall be valued in determining the merger price per share at the higher of (A) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Company, person or other entity which is a party with the Company to the Merger, or (B) the valuation placed on such securities or property by the Committee.
Merger price per share
Merger
 
"" shall mean the greater of (i) the highest price per share stated on the Schedule 13D or any amendment thereto filed by the holder of twenty percent (20%) or more of the Company's voting power which gives rise to the Change of Control or going private transaction, and (ii) the highest fair market value per share of common stock during the ninety-day period ending on the date of such Change of Control or going private transaction.
Acquisition price per share
   

Exhibit 99.24
Brian Sweeney
March 9, 2009
Dear Brian:
Pursuant to the 2006 Cash Incentive Plan (the "") of Cablevision Systems Corporation (the ""), you have been selected by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors to receive a contingent cash award (the "") effective as of March 5, 2009 (the "").
Plan
Company
Award
Effective Date
Capitalized terms used, but not defined, in this agreement (this "") have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
Agreement
. In accordance with the terms of this Performance Award Agreement, the target amount of your contingent Award is $240,000 (the ""), which may be increased or decreased to the extent the performance objectives set forth on hereto (the "") have been attained in respect of the period from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 (the ""). The Award, calculated in accordance with Annex 1 attached hereto, will become payable to you upon the date on which the Committee (as defined in Section 10 below) determines the Company's performance against the Objectives (the "") , that you have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through the Payment Date.
1.     
Amount and Payment of Award
Target Award
Annex 1
Objectives
Performance Period
Payment Date
provided
. If, on the Payment Date, you are no longer employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates for any reason, other than as a result of your death, then you will automatically forfeit all of your rights and interest in the Award regardless of whether the Objectives are attained.
2.     
Termination of Employment
. If, prior to the end of the Performance Period, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive, promptly (and in any event within 30 days) following the date of such termination, payment of the Target Award prorated for the number of completed months of your employment during the Performance Period prior to such termination. If after the end of the Performance Period but prior to the Payment Date, your employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates is terminated as a result of your death then your estate will receive on the Payment Date the Award, if any, to which you would have been entitled on the Payment Date had your employment not been so terminated.
3.     
Death
.
4.     
Going Private Transaction or Change in Control
a.     Going Private Transaction. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if at any time a Going Private Transaction (as defined below) occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, the Target Award shall become payable to you whether or not the Objectives have been attained at the earlier of (i) January 1, 2012, , that you remain in the continuous employ of the Company or one of its Affiliates from the Effective Date through such date or (ii) the date subsequent to the Going Private Transaction on which your employment with the Company or the surviving entity is terminated (A) by the Company or the surviving entity other than for Cause (as defined below) or (B) by you for Good Reason (as defined below). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you become entitled to payment of the Target Award by virtue of a termination in accordance with (ii)(A) or (ii)(B) of this Section 4(a) and are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 409A of the IRC"), the Target Award shall be paid to you on the earlier of: (i) January 1, 2012, (ii) the date that is six months from your date of employment termination and (iii) any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC. In the event of such a determination, the Company shall promptly following the date of your employment termination set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to the previous sentence); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of your employment termination.
provided
provided
b.     Change in Control. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement but subject to the subsections of this Section 4(b), if at any time a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company occurs and immediately prior to such transaction you are employed by the Company or one of its Affiliates, you will be entitled to the payment of the Target Award whether or not the Objectives have been attained.
i.     If the actual Change of Control:
(A)     is a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC or payment of the Award promptly upon such event is otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC (including, for the avoidance of doubt, by reason of the inapplicability of Section 409A of the IRC to the Award), then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company promptly following the Change of Control; or
(B)     is not a permissible distribution event under Section 409A of the IRC and payment of the Award promptly upon such event is not otherwise permissible under Section 409A of the IRC, then the Target Award shall be paid to you by the Company (together with interest thereon pursuant to Section 4(b)(ii) below) on the earliest to occur of:
(1)     any subsequent date on which you are no longer employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates for any reason other than termination of your employment by one of such entities for Cause (provided that if you are determined by the Company to be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the IRC, six months from such date);
(2)     any other date on which such payment or any portion thereof would be a permissible distribution under Section 409A of the IRC; or
(3)     January 1, 2012.
ii.     Upon any Change of Control, to the extent any amounts are due to be paid to you at a later date pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above, the Company shall promptly following the Change of Control set aside such amount for your benefit in a "rabbi trust" that satisfies the requirements of Revenue Procedure 92-64, and on a monthly basis shall deposit into such trust interest in arrears (compounded quarterly at the rate provided below) until such time as such amount, together with all accrued interest thereon, is paid to you in full pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(B) above); , that no payment will be made to such rabbi trust if it would be contrary to law or cause you to incur additional tax under Section 409A of the IRC. The initial interest rate shall be the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of the Change of Control and shall adjust annually based on the average of such rate for the ten business days prior to each anniversary of the Change of Control.
provided
If and to the extent that any payment is determined by the Company to constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the IRC and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then such payment shall be made to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A of the IRC under applicable regulations.
under this Section 4
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an Affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (i) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined below) or (ii) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (i) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. For purposes of this definition, net revenues shall be determined by the independent accountants
Change of Control
of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants.
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means a transaction involving the purchase of Company securities described in Rule 13e-3 to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
Going Private Transaction
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means: (a) without your express written consent any reduction in your base salary or bonus potential, or any material impairment or material adverse change in your working conditions (as the same may from time to time have been improved or, with your written consent, otherwise altered, in each case, after the Grant Date) at any time after or within ninety (90) days prior to the Going Private Transaction including, without limitation, any material reduction of your other compensation, executive perquisites or other employee benefits (measured, where applicable, by level or participation or percentage of award under any plans of the Company), or material impairment or material adverse change of your level of responsibility, authority, autonomy or title, or to your scope of duties; (b) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by you; (c) the Company's requiring you to be based at any office or location more than thirty-five (35) miles from your location immediately prior to the Going Private Transaction except for travel reasonably required in the performance of your responsibilities; or (d) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor.
Good Reason
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means all locations within the following counties: (i) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (ii) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (iii) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (iv) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
New York City Metropolitan Area
. Except for a right which has accrued to receive a payment on account of the Award, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect on the Payment Date.
5.     
Termination
. You may not transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the Award other than to the extent provided in the Plan.
6.     
Transfer Restrictions
. The Plan will at all times be unfunded and, except as set forth in Section 4(b) of this Agreement, no provision will at any time be made with respect to segregating any assets of the Company or any of its Affiliates for payment of any benefits under the Plan, including, without limitation, those covered by this Agreement. Your right or that of your estate to receive payments under this Agreement shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company, including any rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b). Neither you nor your estate shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company other than the assets held by the rabbi trust established pursuant to Section 4(b).
7.     
Unfunded Obligation
. You hereby acknowledge that you have reviewed with your own tax advisors the federal, state and local tax consequences of receiving the Award. You hereby represent to the Company that you are relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company, its Affiliates or any of their respective agents. If, in connection with the Award, the Company is required to withhold any amounts by reason of any federal, state or local tax, such withholding shall be effected in accordance with Section 8 of the Plan.
8.     
Tax Representations and Tax Withholding
You hereby agree that if the Company shall owe you any amount that does not constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" pursuant to Section 409A of the IRC (the "") under this Agreement, then the Company shall have the right to offset against the Company-Owed Amount, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any amounts that you may owe to the Company or its Affiliates of whatever nature.
9.     
Right of Offset.
Company-Owed Amount
. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company or any replacement committee established under, and as more fully defined in, the Plan.
10.     
The Committee
Committee
. The Committee has full discretion with respect to any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Agreement, and its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive.
11.     
Committee Discretion
. The Committee reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend or revise the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, except that the Committee may not make any such amendment or revision in a manner unfavorable to you (other than if immaterial) without your consent. Any amendment of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by an authorized member of the Committee or a person or persons designated by the Committee.
12.     
Amendment
. The Award and all other amounts payable hereunder are subject to the Plan.
13.     
Award Subject to the Plan
. Except for any employment agreement between you and the Company or any of its Affiliates in effect as of the date of the grant hereof (as such employment agreement may be modified, renewed or replaced), this Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the Award covered hereby and supersede all prior understandings and agreements. In the event of a conflict among the documents with respect to the terms and conditions of the Award covered hereby, the documents will be accorded the following order of authority: the terms and conditions of the Plan will have highest authority followed by the terms and conditions of your employment agreement, if any, followed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
14.     
Entire Agreement
. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns.
15.     
Successors and Assigns
. This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under, and in all respects be interpreted, construed and governed by and in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
16.     
Governing Law
. You irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the Federal courts of the United States located in the Southern District and Eastern District of the State of New York in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, and hereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense that you are not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You agree that the mailing of process or other papers in connection with any action or proceeding in any manner permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service.
17.     
Jurisdiction and Venue
. No waiver by the Company at any time of any breach by you of, or compliance with, any term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan to be performed by you shall be deemed a waiver of the same, any similar or any dissimilar term or condition at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
18.     
Waiver
. The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or condition hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other terms and conditions set forth herein.
19.     
Severability
. By acceptance of this Agreement, you shall be considered in agreement that the Award shall be considered special incentive compensation and will be exempt from inclusion as "wages" or "salary" in pension, retirement, life insurance and other employee benefits arrangements of the Company and its Affiliates, except as determined otherwise by the Company. In addition, each of your beneficiaries shall be deemed to be in agreement that the Award shall be exempt from inclusion in "wages" or "salary" for purposes of calculating benefits of any life insurance coverage sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
20.     
Exclusion from Compensation Calculation
. Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be construed to confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate, or derogate from the right of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable, to retire, request the resignation of, or discharge you, at any time, with or without cause.
21.     
No Right to Continued Employment
. The headings in this Agreement are for purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
22.     
Headings
. Upon execution by you, this Agreement shall be effective from and as of the Effective Date.
23.     
Effective Date
. Execution of this Agreement by the Company may be in the form of an electronic or similar signature, and such signature shall be treated as an original signature for all purposes.
24.     
Signatures
   
By your signature, you (i) acknowledge that a complete copy of the Plan and an executed original of this Agreement have been made available to you and (ii) agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement.
   


