FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20091224110941.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") and its subsidiary, Madison Square Garden, Inc. ("MSG"), have entered into new employment agreements with James L. Dolan, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Cablevision and the Executive Chairman of MSG, and with Hank J. Ratner, the Vice Chairman of Cablevision and the President and Chief Executive Officer of MSG. In addition, Cablevision has entered into a new employment agreement with Thomas C. Rutledge, its Chief Operating Officer. These agreements are described below. Certain defined terms used in these descriptions are set forth at the end of this Item 1.01.
Employment Agreement with James L. Dolan
If the planned spin-off by Cablevision of MSG is consummated, Mr. Dolan will be the Executive Chairman of MSG and will devote a portion of his business time to that role. He will also retain his position as Cablevision's President and Chief Executive Officer and will devote most of his business time to that role. In light of Mr. Dolan's dual responsibilities, on December 24, 2009, Cablevision and MSG each entered into separate employment agreements with Mr. Dolan. These agreements will become effective upon the consummation of the spin-off of MSG.
Cablevision
The new agreement with Mr. Dolan provides for his continued employment as President and Chief Executive Officer of Cablevision through December 31, 2014 at a minimum annual base salary of $1,500,000 (subject to annual review and potential increase in the discretion of Cablevision's compensation committee) and an annual target bonus equal to 200% of his annual base salary (and a possible range of 0% to 400%) in the discretion of Cablevision's compensation committee. It is also expected that Mr. Dolan will continue to be nominated for election as a director of Cablevision during the period he serves as President and Chief Executive Officer. Under the agreement, Mr. Dolan continues to be eligible to participate in all Cablevision employee benefits and retirement plans at the level available to other members of senior management of Cablevision, subject to meeting the relevant eligibility requirements and the terms of the plans. Cablevision will also continue to pay the premiums on an existing whole life insurance policy to the extent necessary to provide for payment of the initial targeted death benefit.
Mr. Dolan will also continue to be entitled to participate in Cablevision's long-term cash or equity programs. For example, in calendar year 2010, Mr. Dolan will be entitled to receive one or more long-term cash and/or equity awards with an aggregate target value of $7,000,000 (less the anticipated annual award amount increase under his outstanding deferred compensation award), as determined in the discretion of Cablevision's compensation committee. Although not guaranteed, it is currently expected that long-term cash or equity awards of similar aggregate target values will be made to Mr. Dolan annually.
Any continuing service requirements with respect to outstanding long-term cash and equity awards that were granted to Mr. Dolan prior to the effective date of the new agreement will be based solely on his continued services to Cablevision and its affiliates (other than MSG and its subsidiaries). He and Cablevision have acknowledged that any cash payable
Table of Contents
pursuant to any of those awards will be the sole responsibility and liability of Cablevision and that MSG will have no liability to Mr. Dolan with respect to such cash payable.
If, prior to December 31, 2014 (the "Scheduled Expiration Date"), Mr. Dolan's employment with Cablevision is terminated (i) for any reason by him during the thirteenth calendar month following a Change in Control of Cablevision, (ii) by Cablevision or (iii) by him for Good Reason and at the time of any such termination, Cause does not exist, then, subject to his execution of Cablevision's then standard separation agreement (modified to reflect the terms of the agreement) which separation agreement will include, without limitation, general releases by him as well as non-competition, non-solicitation, non-disparagement, confidentiality and other provisions substantially similar to those set forth in the agreement (a "Separation Agreement"), Cablevision will provide him with the following benefits and rights:
Table of Contents
If Mr. Dolan ceases to be an employee of Cablevision or any of its affiliates (other than MSG and its subsidiaries) prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date as a result of his death, his estate or beneficiary will be provided with the benefits and rights set forth in (c) through (h) in the preceding paragraph and have such longer period to exercise his then outstanding stock options and stock appreciation awards as may otherwise be permitted under the applicable plan and award letter. If he ceases to be an employee of Cablevision or any of its affiliates (other than MSG and its subsidiaries) prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date as a result of his physical or mental disability, he will be provided with the benefits and rights set forth in (b) through (h) of the preceding paragraph.
If after the Scheduled Expiration Date, Mr. Dolan's employment with Cablevision is terminated (i) for any reason by him during the thirteenth calendar month following a Change in Control of Cablevision, (ii) by Cablevision, (iii) by him for Good Reason or (iv) as a result of his death or disability, and at the time of any such termination described above, Cause does not exist, then, subject to (except in the case of his death) his execution of a Separation Agreement, he or his estate or beneficiary, as the case may be, will be provided with the benefits and rights set forth above in (b) through (h) of the next preceding paragraph.
If, prior to or after the Scheduled Expiration Date, Mr. Dolan ceases to be employed by Cablevision for any reason other than his being terminated for Cause, he will have three years to exercise outstanding stock options and stock appreciation awards, unless he is afforded a longer period for exercise pursuant to his employment agreement or any applicable award letter. In no event, however, will stock options or stock appreciation rights remain
Table of Contents
exercisable beyond their regularly scheduled term (except as may otherwise be permitted under the applicable award in the case of death).
Upon the termination of Mr. Dolan's employment with Cablevision, except as otherwise specifically provided in the employment agreement, his rights to benefits and payments under Cablevision's pension and welfare plans (other than severance benefits) and any outstanding long-term cash or equity awards will be determined in accordance with the then current terms and provisions of such plans, agreements and awards under which such benefits and payments (including such long-term cash or equity awards) were granted.
In this agreement, Cablevision acknowledges that, in addition to Mr. Dolan's services pursuant to the agreement, he will simultaneously serve, and is expected to devote a portion of his business time and attention to serving, as Executive Chairman of MSG. Cablevision recognizes and agrees that his responsibilities to MSG will preclude him from devoting substantially all of his time and attention to Cablevision's affairs. The agreement states Cablevision's recognition that there may be certain potential conflicts of interest and fiduciary duty issues associated with Mr. Dolan's dual roles at Cablevision and MSG and that none of (i) his dual responsibilities at Cablevision and MSG, (ii) his inability to devote substantially all of his time and attention to Cablevision's affairs, (iii) the actual or potential conflicts of interest and fiduciary duty issues that are waived in Cablevision's policy concerning matters related to MSG including responsibilities of overlapping directors and officers, or (iv) any actions taken, or omitted to be taken, by him in good faith to comply with his duties and responsibilities to Cablevision in light of his dual responsibilities to Cablevision and MSG, will be deemed to be a breach by him of his obligations under the employment agreement nor will any of the foregoing constitute Cause as such term is defined in the employment agreement.
The employment agreement contains certain covenants by Mr. Dolan including a noncompetition agreement that restricts Mr. Dolan's ability to engage in competitive activities until the first anniversary of the termination of his employment with Cablevision.
Madison Square Garden
The new agreement provides for Mr. Dolan's employment as Executive Chairman of MSG through December 31, 2014 at a minimum annual base salary of $500,000 (subject to annual review and potential increase in the discretion of MSG's compensation committee) and an annual target bonus equal to 200% of his annual base salary (and a possible range of 0% to 400%) in the discretion of MSG's compensation committee. It is also expected that Mr. Dolan will continue to be nominated as a director of MSG during the period he serves as Executive Chairman. Under the agreement, Mr. Dolan continues to be eligible to participate in all MSG employee benefits and retirement plans at the level available to other members of senior management of MSG subject to meeting the relevant eligibility requirements and the terms of the plans. In light of Mr. Dolan's dual role at Cablevision and MSG, he may not meet the eligibility requirements of certain qualified and other plans. In the event Mr. Dolan does not meet the requirements for the Madison Square Garden, L.P. Salary Continuation Plan (short-term disability), any amount that otherwise would have been payable to Mr. Dolan under that plan in the event of a short-term disability will be payable by MSG in the amount and for the duration set forth in the plan. In addition, to the extent that Mr. Dolan does not participate in the Madison Square Garden, L.P. 401(k) Savings Plan and/or
Table of Contents
the Madison Square Garden, L.P. Cash Balance Pension Plan, his full MSG base salary will be used to determine his applicable benefits under the Madison Square Garden, L.P. Excess Savings Plan and/or the Madison Square Garden, L.P. Excess Cash Balance Plan. Any life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance provided by MSG will continue to be based on Mr. Dolan's base salary.
Mr. Dolan will also be eligible to participate in MSG long-term cash or equity programs and arrangements of MSG at the level determined by the MSG compensation committee in its discretion consistent with the role and responsibilities of Executive Chairman. For example, in calendar year 2010, Mr. Dolan will be entitled to receive one or more long-term cash and/or equity awards with an aggregate target value of $1,750,000, as determined by the MSG compensation committee in its discretion. Although not guaranteed, it is currently expected that long-term cash or equity awards of similar target values will be made to him annually.
If, prior to December 31, 2014 (the "Scheduled Expiration Date"), Mr. Dolan's employment with MSG is terminated (i) for any reason by him during the thirteenth calendar month following a Change in Control of MSG, (ii) by MSG or (iii) by him for Good Reason, and at the time of any such termination Cause does not exist, then, subject to his execution of a Separation Agreement with MSG, MSG will provide him with the following benefits and rights:
Table of Contents
If Mr. Dolan ceaseto be an employee of MSG or any of its affiliates (other than Cablevision and its subsidiaries) prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date as a result of his death or physical or mental disability, Mr. Dolan (or his estate or beneficiary) will be provided with the benefits and rights set forth in (b) through (f) of the preceding paragraph, and, in the event of his death, such longer period to exercise his then outstanding stock options and stock appreciation awards as may otherwise be permitted under the applicable plan and award letter.
s
If, after the Scheduled Expiration Date, Mr. Dolan's employment with MSG is terminated (i) for any reason by him during the thirteenth calendar month following a Change in Control of MSG, (ii) by MSG, (iii) by him for Good Reason, or (iv) as a result of his death or disability, and at the time of any such termination, Cause does not exist, then, subject to (except in the case of his death) his execution of a Separation Agreement, he or his estate or beneficiary, as the case may be, will be provided with the benefits and rights set forth above in (b) through (f) of the next preceding paragraph.
If, prior to or after the Scheduled Expiration Date, Mr. Dolan ceases to be employed by MSG for any reason other than his being terminated for Cause, he will have three years to exercise outstanding stock options and stock appreciation awards, unless he is afforded a longer period for exercise pursuant to his employment agreement or any applicable award letter. In no event, however, will stock options or stock appreciation rights remain exercisable beyond their regularly scheduled term (except as may otherwise be permitted under the applicable award in the case of death).
Upon the termination of Mr. Dolan's employment with MSG, except as otherwise specifically provided in the employment agreement, his rights to benefits and payments under the
Table of Contents
MSG pension and welfare plans (other than severance benefits) and any outstanding long-term cash or equity awards will be determined in accordance with the then current terms and provisions of such plans, agreements and awards under which such benefits and payments (including such long-term cash or equity awards) were granted.
In the employment agreement, MSG acknowledges that, in addition to Mr. Dolan's services pursuant to the agreement, he will simultaneously serve, and is expected to devote most of his business time and attention to serving, as President and Chief Executive Officer of Cablevision. MSG recognizes and agrees that his responsibilities to Cablevision will preclude him from devoting a substantial portion of his time and attention to MSG's affairs. The agreement states MSG's recognition that there may be certain potential conflicts of interest and fiduciary duty issues associated with Mr. Dolan's dual roles at MSG and Cablevision and that none of (i) his dual responsibilities at MSG and Cablevision, (ii) his inability to devote a substantial portion of his time and attention to MSG's affairs, (iii) the actual or potential conflicts of interest and fiduciary duty issues that are waived in MSG's certificate of incorporation, or (iv) any actions taken, or omitted to be taken, by him in good faith to comply with his duties and responsibilities to MSG in light of his dual responsibilities to MSG and Cablevision, will be deemed to be a breach by him of his obligations under the employment agreement nor will any of the foregoing constitute Cause as such term is defined in the employment agreement.
The employment agreement contains certain covenants by Mr. Dolan including a noncompetition agreement that restricts Mr. Dolan's ability to engage in competitive activities until the first anniversary of the termination of his employment with MSG.
Employment Agreement with Thomas C. Rutledge
The new agreement with Mr. Rutledge provides for his continued employment as Chief Operating Officer of Cablevision through December 31, 2014 at a minimum annual base salary of $1,638,000 (subject to annual review and potential increase in the discretion of Cablevision's compensation committee) and an annual target bonus equal to 200% of his annual base salary (and with a range of 0% to 400%), in the discretion of Cablevision's compensation committee. He will also be entitled to participate in all employee benefits and future long-term cash and equity programs and arrangements at the level available to senior management of Cablevision. For example, in calendar year 2010, Mr. Rutledge will be entitled to receive one or more long-term cash and/or equity awards with an aggregate target value of $6,800,000 (less the amount that is added to the award amount under Mr. Rutledge's outstanding deferred compensation award), as determined in the discretion of Cablevision's compensation committee.
Mr. Rutledge will receive, within 10 days after the execution of the new agreement, a one-time special payment of $7,750,000 (the "Special Cash Award"). If his employment with Cablevision is terminated prior to December 31, 2012, other than in a circumstance described in the next following paragraph, he will be required to repay Cablevision an amount equal to the product of $7,750,000 multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is 36 less the number of whole calendar months commencing with January 1, 2010 and ending on the date on which his employment terminated, and the denominator of which is 36.
Table of Contents
In addition to his eligibility for a regular grant of equity and/or cash long-term incentives in 2010, he will also receive a one-time special award of shares of Cablevision restricted Class A Common Stock with a target value of $10,750,000 (the "Special Stock Award"). The Special Stock Award will be made no later than March 31, 2010. The Special Stock Award will be subject to the same terms, including risk of forfeiture, reflected in Cablevision's current standard form restricted stock agreement, except that the forfeiture restrictions on the shares subject to the Special Stock Award will expire with respect to two-thirds of the shares on December 15, 2010 and with respect to the remaining one-third of the shares on December 15, 2011, provided, that on each such date, the restrictions will expire only to the extent the performance objectives set forth in the agreement have been met. If Mr. Rutledge's employment with Cablevision is terminated after December 15, 2010, and before December 15, 2011, other than in a circumstance described in the next paragraph, he must return to Cablevision a cash payment equal to the value of the number of shares of the Cablevision Class A Common Stock equal to the product of (x) the number of gross shares of Cablevision Class A Common Stock with respect to which the forfeiture restrictions expired on December 15, 2010, multiplied by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is 12 less the number of monthly anniversaries of December 15, 2010 through and including December 15, 2011 that he was employed by Cablevision, and the denominator of which is 12.
If Mr. Rutledge's employment with Cablevision is terminated (1) for any reason by him during the thirteenth calendar month following a Change in Control of Cablevision, (2) by Cablevision, (3) by him for Good Reason, or (4) as a result of his death or physical or mental disability, and at the time of any such termination, Cause does not exist, then, subject to (except in the case of his death) his execution of a Separation Agreement, (i) the forfeiture restrictions on the shares subject to the Special Stock Award shall immediately expire; provided, however, other than in the case of death, such shares will remain subject to meeting the performance objectives set forth in the agreement, and (ii) he will not be required to repay to Cablevision any portion of the Special Cash Award or Special Stock Award.
If, on or prior to December 31, 2014 (the "Scheduled Expiration Date"), Mr. Rutledge's employment is terminated by Cablevision, by him for Good Reason or as a result of his death or physical or mental disability, and at the time of any such termination, Cause does not exist, subject (except in the case of his death) to his execution of a Separation Agreement, Mr. Rutledge or his estate or beneficiary, as the case may be, will remain eligible to receive a pro rated annual bonus for the year in which the termination occurred if, when and to the same extent that other similarly situated executives receive payment of bonuses for such year as determined by the Cablevision compensation committee (subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance objectives). Mr. Rutledge will similarly remain eligible for a 2014 annual bonus (if not yet paid) in connection with these types of employment terminations after 2014.
All of Mr. Rutledge's cash performance awards outstanding on the date of the agreement ("Outstanding Cash Performance Awards") and the unvested portion of his deferred
Table of Contents
compensation award outstanding on the date of the agreement will continue to be subject to the terms of the respective award agreements and to the provisions related to those awards in his prior employment agreement.
Subject to the treatment of the Special Cash Award, the Special Stock Award and the Outstanding Cash Performance Award described above, all of Mr. Rutledge's equity and long-term awards, to the extent unvested, unexercisable and/or unearned, (i) will automatically be forfeited upon the termination of his employment with Cablevision for any reason, including without limitation, as a result of his death, disability, retirement, termination by Cablevision with or without Cause or termination by Mr. Rutledge with or without Good Reason, and (ii) will not be subject to any accelerated or special vesting or become earlier exercisable or earned as a result of any corporate transaction such as a change-in-control or going private transaction.
If, prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date, Mr. Rutledge ceases to be an employee of Cablevision or any of its affiliates for any reason other than as a result of his being terminated by Cablevision for Cause or as a result of his death or physical or mental disability, he will have until the third anniversary of the termination of his employment to exercise any then outstanding vested stock options and stock appreciation rights, unless he is afforded a longer period for exercise pursuant to an applicable award letter. If he ceases to be an employee of Cablevision or any of its affiliates prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date as a result of his death or physical or mental disability, he (or his estate or beneficiary) will have the right to exercise his then outstanding vested and exercisable stock options and stock appreciation awards through the later of (i) the Scheduled Expiration Date, and (ii) the third anniversary of the termination of his employment. In no event, however, will stock options or stock appreciation rights remain exercisable beyond their regularly scheduled term (except as may otherwise be permitted under the applicable award in the case of death).
To provide Mr. Rutledge with an additional retirement benefit, Cablevision will establish, and credit $15 million to, a special bookkeeping account for his benefit (the "Retirement Account"). Upon a Qualifying Termination of his employment, then, subject to (except in the case of his death) his execution of a Separation Agreement, Cablevision will provide him or his estate or beneficiary, as the case may be, a lump sum payment equal to the balance of the Retirement Account on the 90th day following such termination of his employment. Mr. Rutledge's right to be paid the balance of the Retirement Account will be forfeited upon a termination of his employment that is not a Qualifying Termination. The Retirement Account will be credited quarterly to reflect interest based on one-year LIBOR.
Upon the termination of Mr. Rutledge's employment with Cablevision, his rights to benefits and payments under Cablevisions' pension and welfare plans (other than severance benefits) will be determined in accordance with the then current terms and provisions of such plans.
The employment agreement contains certain covenants by Mr. Rutledge including a noncompetition agreement that restricts Mr. Rutledge's ability to engage in competitive activities until the first anniversary of the termination of his employment with Cablevision.
Table of Contents
Employment Agreements with Hank J. Ratner
If the planned spin-off by Cablevision of MSG is consummated, Mr. Ratner will be the President and Chief Executive Officer of MSG. It is expected that Mr. Ratner will devote a majority of his time to his role at MSG but he will also retain his position as Cablevision's Vice Chairman and will devote a portion of his time to that role. In light of Mr. Ratner's dual responsibilities, on December 21, 2009, Cablevision and MSG each entered into separate employment agreements with Mr. Ratner. These agreements will become effective upon the consummation of the spin-off of MSG. Cablevision and Mr. Ratner have also agreed to extend the expiration date of his current employment agreement with Cablevision until the earlier of March 31, 2010 or the date of the spin-off.
Cablevision
The new agreement with Mr. Ratner provides for his continued employment as Vice Chairman of Cablevision through December 31, 2014 at a minimum annual base salary of $500,000 (subject to annual review and potential increase in the discretion of Cablevision's compensation committee) and an annual target bonus equal to 200% of his annual base salary (and a possible range of 0% to 400%) in the discretion of Cablevision's compensation committee. Under the agreement, Mr. Ratner continues to be eligible to participate in all Cablevision employee benefits and retirement plans at the level available to other members of senior management of Cablevision, subject to meeting the relevant eligibility requirements and the terms of the plans. In light of Mr. Ratner's dual role at Cablevision and MSG, he may not meet the eligibility requirements of certain qualified and other plans. In the event Mr. Ratner does not meet the requirements for the Cablevision Choice Salary Continuation Plan (short-term disability), any amount that otherwise would have been payable to Mr. Ratner under that plan in the event of a short-term disability will be payable by Cablevision in the amount, at the times, and for the duration set forth in the plan. In addition, to the extent that Mr. Ratner does not participate in the Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan and/or Cablevision Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan, his full Cablevision base salary will be used to determine his applicable benefits under these plans. Any life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance provided by Cablevision will continue to be based on Mr. Ratner's base salary.
Plus
Mr. Ratner will also continue to be entitled to participate in Cablevision's long-term cash or equity programs. For example, in calendar year 2010, Mr. Ratner will be entitled to receive one or more long-term cash and/or equity awards with an aggregate target value of $1,400,000 (less the anticipated annual award amount increase under his outstanding deferred compensation award), as determined in the discretion of Cablevision's compensation committee. For so long as Mr. Ratner's deferred compensation award remains outstanding, the annual award amount increase will be $150,000 (instead of 20% of his base salary). Cablevision has agreed that neither the scheduled expiration of the agreement nor Mr. Ratner's rights in connection with the expiration will have any effect on any determination by the Cablevision compensation committee with respect to the amount, terms or form of any long-term incentive awards granted to him in the future.
Table of Contents
In addition to Mr. Ratner's eligibility for the grant of equity and/or cash long-term incentives in 2010, he will also receive a one-time special award of shares of restricted Cablevision Class A Common Stock with a target value of $1,750,000 (the "Special Stock Award"). The Special Stock Award will be made no later than March 31, 2010. The Special Stock Award will be subject to the same terms reflected in Cablevision's current standard form restricted stock agreement, with the forfeiture restrictions on all of the shares expiring on the third anniversary of the grant ( .., 3-year cliff vesting).
i
e
Any continuing service requirements with respect to outstanding long-term cash and equity awards that were granted to Mr. Ratner prior to the effective date of the new agreement will be based solely on his continued services to Cablevision and its affiliates (other than MSG and its subsidiaries). He and Cablevision have acknowledged that any cash payable pursuant to any of those awards will be the sole responsibility and liability of Cablevision and that MSG will have no liability to Mr. Ratner with respect to such cash payable.
If, prior to December 31, 2014 (the "Scheduled Expiration Date"), Mr. Ratner's employment with Cablevision is terminated (i) for any reason by him during the thirteenth calendar month following a Change in Control of Cablevision, (ii) by Cablevision, (iii) by him for Good Reason or (iv) by Mutual Consent, and at the time of any such termination described above, Cause does not exist, then, subject to his execution of a Separation Agreement with Cablevision (modified to reflect the terms of his employment agreement) Cablevision will provide him with the following benefits and rights:
Table of Contents
If Mr. Ratner's employment is terminated as described in this paragraph, but such employment is terminated pursuant to clause 1(H) of the definition of Good Reason, then he will not be entitled to the payment set forth in (a) above.
If Mr. Ratner ceases to be an employee of Cablevision or any of its affiliates (other than MSG and its subsidiaries) prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date as a result of his death, his estate or beneficiary will be provided with the benefits and rights set forth in (c) through (f) in the preceding paragraph and have such longer period to exercise his then outstanding stock options and stock appreciation awards as may otherwise be permitted under the applicable plan and award letter. If he ceases to be an employee of Cablevision or any of its affiliates (other than MSG and its subsidiaries) prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date as a result of his physical or mental disability, he will be provided with the benefits and rights set forth in (b) through (f) of the preceding paragraph.
If after the Scheduled Expiration Date, Mr. Ratner's employment with Cablevision is terminated (i) for any reason by him during the thirteenth calendar month following a Change in Control of Cablevision, (ii) by Cablevision, (iii) by him for Good Reason, (iv) by him without Good Reason but only if he had provided Cablevision with at least six months advance written notice of his intent to so terminate his employment, or (v) as a result of his death or disability, and at the time of any such termination described above, Cause does not exist, then, subject to (except in the case of his death) his execution of a Separation Agreement, he or his estate or beneficiary, as the case may be, will be provided with the benefits and rights set forth above in (b) through (g) of the next preceding paragraph, provided that if his employment is terminated as a result of his death, his estate or beneficiary will not be entitled to the continuation of premium payments benefits set forth in (b) of that paragraph.
If, prior to or after the Scheduled Expiration Date, Mr. Ratner ceases to be employed by Cablevision for any reason other than his being terminated for Cause, he will have three years to exercise outstanding stock options and stock appreciation awards, unless he is afforded a longer period for exercise pursuant to his employment agreement or any applicable award letter. In no event, however, will stock options or stock appreciation rights remain exercisable beyond their regularly scheduled term (except as may otherwise be permitted under the applicable award in the case of death).
Table of Contents
To provide Mr. Ratner with an additional retirement benefit, Cablevision will establish, and credit $15 million as of the effective date of the employment agreement to, a notional bookkeeping account for his benefit (the "Retirement Account"). Upon a Qualifying Termination of his employment, whether before, on or after the Scheduled Expiration Date, then, subject to (except in the case of his death) his execution of a Separation Agreement, Cablevision will provide him or his estate or beneficiary, as the case may be, a lump sum payment equal to the balance of the Retirement Account (as adjusted below) on the 90th day following such termination of his employment. His right to be paid the balance of the Retirement Account will be forfeited upon a termination of his employment that is not a Qualifying Termination. The Retirement Account will be credited quarterly to reflect interest based on one-year LIBOR. If upon the termination of his employment there is a good faith dispute between him and Cablevision as to whether the termination is a Qualifying Termination, Cablevision will pay the balance of the Retirement Account to a trust pending the final unappealable resolution of the dispute.
Upon the termination of Mr. Ratner's employment with Cablevision, except as described above, his rights to benefits and payments under Cablevision's pension and welfare plans (other than severance benefits) and any outstanding long-term cash or equity awards will be determined in accordance with the then current terms and provisions of such plans, agreements and awards under which such benefits and payments (including such long-term cash or equity awards) were granted.
In this agreement, Cablevision acknowledges that, in addition to Mr. Ratner's services pursuant to the agreement, he will simultaneously serve, and is expected to devote most of his business time and attention to serving, as President and Chief Executive Officer of MSG. Cablevision recognizes and agrees that his responsibilities to MSG will preclude him from devoting a substantial portion of his time and attention to Cablevision's affairs. The agreement states Cablevision's recognition that there may be certain potential conflicts of interest and fiduciary duty issues associated with Mr. Ratner's dual roles at Cablevision and MSG and that none of (i) his dual responsibilities at Cablevision and MSG, (ii) his inability to devote a substantial portion of his time and attention to Cablevision's affairs, (iii) the actual or potential conflicts of interest and fiduciary duty issues that are waived in Cablevision's policy concerning matters related to Madison Square Garden, Inc. including responsibilities of overlapping directors and officers, or (iv) any actions taken, or omitted to be taken, by him in good faith to comply with his duties and responsibilities to Cablevision in light of his dual responsibilities to Cablevision and MSG, will be deemed to be a breach by him of his obligations under the employment agreement nor will any of the foregoing constitute Cause as such term is defined in the employment agreement.
The employment agreement contains certain covenants by Mr. Ratner including a noncompetition agreement that restricts Mr. Ratner's ability to engage in competitive activities until the first anniversary of the termination of his employment with Cablevision.
Madison Square Garden
The new agreement provides for Mr. Ratner's employment as President and Chief Executive Officer of MSG through December 31, 2014 at a minimum annual base salary of
Table of Contents
$1,200,000 (subject to annual review and potential increase in the discretion of MSG's compensation committee) and an annual target bonus equal to 200% of his annual base salary (and a possible range of 0% to 400%) in the discretion of MSG's compensation committee. He will be entitled to participate in all MSG's employee benefits and retirement plans at the level available to other members of senior management (subject to meeting the relevant eligibility requirements and terms of the plans). Mr. Ratner will also be eligible to participate in MSG long-term cash or equity programs. For example, in calendar year 2010, Mr. Ratner will be entitled to receive one or more long-term cash and/or equity awards with an aggregate target value of $5,400,000, as determined by the MSG compensation committee in its discretion. Although not guaranteed, it is currently expected that long-term cash or equity awards of similar target values will be made to him annually. Neither the scheduled expiration of the agreement nor Mr. Ratner's rights in connection with the expiration will have any effect on any determination by the MSG compensation committee with respect to the amount, terms or form of any long-term incentive awards granted to him in the future.
In addition to Mr. Ratner's eligibility for the grant of equity and/or cash long-term incentives in 2010, he will also receive a one-time special award in stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and/or restricted stock units, in such form or forms as determined by the MSG compensation committee, with an aggregate target value of $4,750,000, all as to be determined by the MSG compensation committee in its discretion (the "Special Equity Award"). The Special Equity Award will be made no later than March 31, 2010. The Special Equity Award will be subject to terms substantially similar to the terms contained in the agreements historically used by Cablevision for similar equity awards for its senior executives, except that the forfeiture restrictions for the equity awards will expire on the third anniversary of the grant, and that any portion of the Special Equity Award in the form of restricted stock or restricted stock units will also be subject to the performance objectives set forth in the employment agreement.
If, prior to December 31, 2014 (the "Scheduled Expiration Date"), Mr. Ratner's employment with MSG is terminated (i) for any reason by him during the thirteenth calendar month following a Change in Control of MSG, (ii) by MSG, (iii) by him for Good Reason, or (iv) by Mutual Consent, and at the time of any such termination Cause does not exist, then, subject to his execution of a Separation Agreement with MSG), MSG will provide him with the following benefits and rights:
Table of Contents
If Mr. Ratner ceaseto be an employee of MSG or any of its affiliates (other than Cablevision and its subsidiaries) prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date as a result of his death or physical or mental disability, Mr. Ratner (or his estate or beneficiary) will be provided with the benefits and rights set forth in (b) through (f) of the preceding paragraph, and, in the event of his death, such longer period to exercise his then outstanding stock options and stock appreciation awards as may otherwise be permitted under the applicable plan and award letter.
s
If, after the Scheduled Expiration Date, Mr. Ratner's employment with MSG is terminated (i) for any reason by him during the thirteenth calendar month following a Change in Control of MSG, (ii) by MSG, (iii) by him for Good Reason, (iv) by him without Good Reason
Table of Contents
but only if he had provided MSG with at least six months advance written notice of his intent to so terminate his employment, or (v) as a result of his death or disability, and at the time of any such termination, Cause does not exist, then, subject to (except in the case of his death) his execution of a Separation Agreement, he or his estate or beneficiary, as the case may be, will be provided with the benefits and rights set forth above in (b) through (f) of the next preceding paragraph.
If, prior to or after the Scheduled Expiration Date, Mr. Ratner ceases to be employed by MSG for any reason other than his being terminated for Cause, he will have three years to exercise outstanding stock options and stock appreciation awards, unless he is afforded a longer period for exercise pursuant to his employment agreement or any applicable award letter. In no event, however, will stock options or stock appreciation rights remain exercisable beyond their regularly scheduled term (except as may otherwise be permitted under the applicable award in the case of death).
Upon the termination of Mr. Ratner's employment with MSG, except as otherwise specifically provided in the employment agreement, his rights to benefits and payments under the MSG pension and welfare plans (other than severance benefits) and any outstanding long-term cash or equity awards will be determined in accordance with the then current terms and provisions of such plans, agreements and awards under which such benefits and payments (including such long-term cash or equity awards) were granted.
The agreement provides that MSG will provide Mr. Ratner with the use of a driver and a car appropriate to his status and responsibilities.
In the agreement, MSG acknowledges that, in addition to Mr. Ratner's services pursuant to the agreement, he will simultaneously serve, and is expected to devote a portion of his business time and attention to serving, as Vice Chairman of Cablevision. MSG recognizes and agrees that his responsibilities to Cablevision will preclude him from devoting all of his time and attention to MSG's affairs. The agreement states MSG's recognition that there may be certain potential conflicts of interest and fiduciary duty issues associated with Mr. Ratner's dual roles at MSG and Cablevision and that none of (i) his dual responsibilities at MSG and Cablevision, (ii) his inability to devote all of his time and attention to MSG's affairs, (iii) the actual or potential conflicts of interest and fiduciary duty issues that are waived in MSG's certificate of incorporation, or (iv) any actions taken, or omitted to be taken, by him in good faith to comply with his duties and responsibilities to MSG in light of his dual responsibilities to MSG and Cablevision, will be deemed to be a breach by him of his obligations under the employment agreement nor will any of the foregoing constitute Cause as such term is defined in the employment agreement.
The employment agreement contains certain covenants by Mr. Ratner including a noncompetition agreement that restricts Mr. Ratner's ability to engage in competitive activities until the first anniversary of the termination of his employment with MSG.
Table of Contents
Certain Definitions
For purposes of the foregoing descriptions of the employment agreements of James L. Dolan, Thomas C. Rutledge and Hank J. Ratner the following definitions apply, as applicable. Except as noted, the definitions are the same in all agreements.
"Cause" is defined as (1) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the company or an affiliate thereof, or (2) commission of any act or omission that results in, or may reasonably be expected to result in, a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of nolo contendere or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
"Change in Control" of Cablevision means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by Cablevision, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by Cablevision in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of Cablevision in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) will have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of Cablevision and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of Cablevision and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of Cablevision or substantially all its assets.
"Change in Control" of MSG means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by MSG, of the power to direct the management of MSG or substantially all its assets (as constituted immediately prior to such transaction or transactions).
"Mutual Consent" means the employee and the company have mutually agreed in writing to terminate the employee's employment with the company and that such termination of employment will not constitute a termination by the company with or without Cause or by the employee with or without Good Reason.
A "Qualifying Termination" of Mr. Rutledge's employment means any termination of his employment with Cablevision (1) for any reason by Mr. Rutledge during the thirteenth calendar month following a Change in Control of Cablevision, (2) by Cablevision, (3) by him on or prior to December 31, 2014 for Good Reason, (4) by him after December 31, 2014 without Good Reason if he provides Cablevision with at least six months advance written notice of his intent to so terminate his employment or (5) as a result of his death or physical or mental disability, provided that, at the time of any such termination prior to December 31, 2014, Cause does not exist.
Table of Contents
A "Qualifying Termination" of Mr. Ratner's employment with Cablevision means any termination of Mr. Ratner's employment with Cablevision (1) for any reason by him during the thirteenth calendar month following a Change in Control of Cablevision, (2) by Cablevision, (3) by him for Good Reason or (4) by him after December 31, 2014 without Good Reason if he provides Cablevision with at least six months advance written notice of his intent to so terminate his employment, (5) as a result of his death or physical or mental disability, or (6) as a result of Mutual Consent, provided that at the time of any such termination described in this definition prior to December 31, 2014, Cause does not exist.
Termination for "Good Reason" in Mr. Dolan's employment agreement with MSG means that (1) without Mr. Dolan's consent, (A) Mr. Dolan's base salary or bonus target is reduced, (B) MSG requires that Mr. Dolan's principal office be located outside of Nassau County or Manhattan, (C) MSG materially breaches its obligations to Mr. Dolan under his employment agreement, (D) Mr. Dolan is no longer the Executive Chairman of MSG, (E) Mr. Dolan no longer reports directly to the Board of Directors of the MSG, or (F) Mr. Dolan's responsibilities are materially diminished, (2) Mr. Dolan has given MSG written notice, referring specifically to this definition, that he does not consent to such action, (3) MSG has not corrected such action within 15 days of receiving such notice, and (4) Mr. Dolan voluntarily terminates his employment within 90 days following the happening of the action described in subsection (1) of this definition.
Termination for "Good Reason" in Mr. Dolan's employment agreement with Cablevision means that (1) without Mr. Dolan's consent, (A) Mr. Dolan's base salary or bonus target is reduced, (B) Cablevision requires that Mr. Dolan's principal office be located outside of Nassau County or Manhattan, (C) Cablevision materially breaches its obligations to Mr. Dolan under his employment agreement, (D) Mr. Dolan is no longer the Chief Executive Officer of Cablevision , (E) Mr. Dolan no longer reports directly to the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Cablevision , or (F) Mr. Dolan's responsibilities are materially diminished, (2) Mr. Dolan has given Cablevision written notice, referring specifically to this definition, that he does not consent to such action, (3) Cablevision has not corrected such action within 15 days of receiving such notice, and (4) Mr. Dolan voluntarily terminates his employment within 90 days following the happening of the action described in subsection (1) of this definition.
Termination for "Good Reason" in Mr. Rutledge's employment agreement means that (1) without Mr. Rutledge's consent, (A) Mr. Rutledge's base salary or bonus target as an employee is reduced, (B) Cablevision requires that Mr. Rutledge's principal office be located outside of Nassau County or Manhattan, (C) Cablevision materially breaches its obligations to Mr. Rutledge under the employment agreement, (D) Mr. Rutledge is no longer the Chief Operating Officer of Cablevision, (E) Mr. Rutledge reports directly to someone other than the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Cablevision or the Chief Executive Officer of Cablevision, or (F) Mr. Rutledge's responsibilities are materially diminished, (2) Mr. Rutledge has given Cablevision written notice, referring specifically to this definition, that he does not consent to such action, (3) Cablevision has not corrected such action within 15 days of receiving such notice, and (4) Mr. Rutledge voluntarily terminates his employment within 90 days following the happening of the action described in subsection (1) of this definition.
Table of Contents
Termination for "Good Reason" in Mr. Ratner's MSG employment agreement means that (1) without Mr. Ratner's consent, (A) his base salary or bonus target as an employee is reduced, (B) MSG requires that his principal office be located outside of Nassau County or Manhattan, (C) MSG materially breaches its obligations to Mr. Ratner under the employment agreement, (D) Mr. Ratner is no longer the President and Chief Executive Officer of the MSG, (E) Mr. Ratner reports directly to someone other than the Chairman (or the Executive Chairman), or (F) Mr. Ratner's responsibilities are materially diminished, (2) Mr. Ratner has given MSG written notice, referring specifically to this definition, that he does not consent to such action, (3) MSG has not corrected such action within 15 days of receiving such notice, and (4) Mr. Ratner voluntarily terminates his employment within 90 days following the happening of the action described in subsection (1) of this definition.
Termination for "Good Reason" in Mr. Ratner's Cablevision employment agreement means that (1) without Mr. Ratner's consent, (A) his base salary or bonus target as an employee is reduced, (B) prior to December 31, 2014, the aggregate target value of his awards (as determined in good faith by the Cablevision compensation committee at the time of grant and including the anticipated annual award amount increase under his outstanding deferred compensation award with respect to the year) under the long-term cash or equity programs and arrangements of Cablevision is less than $1.4 million, unless such reduction in value is in proportion to the reduction in the aggregate target values of the awards granted for such year to all of named executive officers listed in Cablevision's proxy statement relating to the immediately preceding year that are still full-time executive officers at the time of such reduction, (C) Cablevision requires that his principal office be located outside of Nassau County or Manhattan, (D) Cablevision materially breaches its obligations to Mr. Ratner under this Agreement, (E) he is no longer the Vice Chairman of Cablevision, (F) he reports directly to someone other than the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Cablevision or, provided that James L. Dolan is the Chief Executive Officer of Cablevision, the Chief Executive Office of Cablevision, (G) his responsibilities immediately after the effective date of the employment agreement are thereafter materially diminished, or (H) if (i) prior to December 31, 2014, his employment with MSG is terminated by MSG without "Cause" or by him for "Good Reason" (as Cause and Good Reason are defined in his MSG employment agreement), (ii) he has been unable to find a position with another company that (a) is comparable in responsibility, stature and compensation to his position at MSG, and (b) would accommodate his continuing responsibilities at Cablevision under this Agreement, despite a good faith effort to find such a position over the 30-day period following such termination of his employment with MSG and he provides prompt notice thereof to Cablevision, and (iii) within 15 days of Cablevision's receipt of such notice, Cablevision fails to offer him full-time employment with Cablevision with (x) responsibility comparable to that which he had at Cablevision prior to the spin-off and (y) an annual base salary of no less than $1,638,000, a target annual bonus of no less than 200% of his annual base salary, and an opportunity to receive future grants under the long-term cash or equity programs and arrangements at the level available to senior management of Cablevision, (2) he had given Cablevision written notice, referring specifically to this definition, that he did not consent to such action (including the failure by Cablevision to make an employment offer in the case of clause (H) above), (3) Cablevision has not corrected such action within 15 days of
Table of Contents
receiving such notice, and (4) he voluntarily terminates his employment within 90 days following the happening of the action described in subsection (1) of this definition.
The employment agreements with Messrs. Dolan, Rutledge and Ratner have been filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K and the descriptions of those agreements contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to those agreements which are incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Employment Agreement, dated as of December 24, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and James L. Dolan.
99.2 Employment Agreement, dated as of December 24, 2009, between Madison Square Garden, Inc. and James L. Dolan.
99.3 Employment Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Thomas M. Rutledge.
99.4 Employment Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2009, between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Hank J. Ratner.
99.5 Employment Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2009, between Madison Square Garden, Inc. and Hank J. Ratner.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 24, 2009
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 24, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
Mr. James L. Dolan Cablevision Systems Corporation 1111 Stewart Avenue Bethpage, New York 11714
Dear Jim:
This letter, effective upon the "Effective Date" (as defined in Annex A hereof), will confirm the terms of your continued employment by Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "").
Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in, or may reasonably be expected to result in, a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of Nolo Contendere, or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or felony.
Cause
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (i) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (ii) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (i) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. Net revenues shall be determined by independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "New York City Metropolitan Area" means all locations within the following counties (A) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (B) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (C) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (D) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
Change in Control
"" means the date on which the spinoff of Madison Square Garden, Inc. from Cablevision Systems Corporation is consummated.
Effective Date
Termination for "" means that (1) without your consent, (A) your base salary or bonus target is reduced, (B) the Company requires that your principal office be located outside of Nassau County or Manhattan, (C) the Company materially breaches its obligations to you under this Agreement, (D) you are no longer the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, (E) you no longer report directly to the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, or (F) your responsibilities are materially diminished, (2) you have given the Company written notice, referring specifically to this definition, that you do not consent to such action, (3) the Company has not corrected such action within 15 days of receiving such notice, and (4) you voluntarily terminate your employment within 90 days following the happening of the action described in subsection (1) above.
Good Reason
 
You agree to comply with the following covenants in addition to those set forth in the Agreement.
You agree to retain in strict confidence and not divulge, disseminate, copy or disclose to any third party any Confidential Information, other than for legitimate business purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. As used herein, "Confidential Information" means any non-public information that is material or of a confidential, proprietary, commercially sensitive or personal nature of, or regarding, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any current or former director, officer or member of senior management of any of the foregoing (collectively "Covered Parties"). The term Confidential Information includes information in written, digital, oral or any other format and includes, but is not limited to (i) information designated or treated as confidential; (ii) budgets, plans, forecasts or other financial or accounting data; (iii) subscriber, customer, fan, vendor or shareholder lists or data; (iv) technical or strategic information regarding the Covered Parties', cable, data, telephone, programming, advertising, film production, motion picture exhibition, newspaper, MVDOS or other businesses; (v) advertising, business, sales or marketing tactics and strategies; (vi) policies, practices, procedures or techniques; (vii) trade secrets or other intellectual property; (vii) information, theories or strategies relating to litigation, arbitration, mediation, investigations or matters relating to governmental authorities; (vii) terms of agreements with third parties and third party trade secrets; (viii) information regarding employees, agents, consultants, advisors or representatives, including their compensation or other human resources policies and procedures; and (ix) any other information the disclosure of which may have an adverse effect on the Covered Parties' business reputation, operations or competitive position, reputation or standing in the community.
If disclosed, Confidential Information or Other Information could have an adverse effect on the Company's standing in the community, its business reputation, operations or competitive position or the standing, reputation, operations or competitive position of any of its affiliates (other than MSG and its Subsidiaries) subsidiaries, officers, directors, employees, consultants or agents or any of the Covered Parties.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of this section, other than with respect to subscriber information, shall not apply to Confidential Information which is:
 
Notwithstanding anything elsewhere in this Agreement, you are authorized to make any disclosure required of you by any federal, state and local laws or judicial, arbitral or governmental agency proceedings, after providing the Company with prior written notice and an opportunity to respond prior to such disclosure. In addition, this Agreement in no way restricts or prevents you from providing truthful testimony concerning the Company to judicial, administrative, regulatory or other governmental authorities.
You acknowledge that due to your executive position in the Company and your knowledge of the Company's confidential and proprietary information, your employment or affiliation with certain entities would be detrimental to the Company. You agree that, without the prior written consent of the Company, you will not represent, become employed by, consult to, advise in any manner or have any material interest in any business directly or indirectly in any Competitive Entity (as defined below). A "Competitive Entity" shall mean (1) any person or entity (other than MSG and its subsidiaries) that competes with any of the Company's or its affiliates cable television, telephone, on-line data, on-line content, or newspaper businesses or that competes with any of the Company's or its affiliates' programming businesses, nationally or regionally or that competes with any other business of the Company or its affiliates that produced greater than 10% of the Company's revenues in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which the determination is made; or (2) any trade or professional association representing any of the companies covered by this paragraph, other than the National Cable Television Association and any state cable television association. For purposes of this paragraph 2, an affiliate of the Company shall mean an entity that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or under common control with, the Company (other than MSG and its subsidiaries). An entity shall be deemed to compete with the on-line content business of the Company, or any of its affiliates only if the entity directly competes against the on-line content business of the Company, or its affiliate; provided, however, that an entity's business shall not be deemed to directly compete merely by the fact that the business sells ads on-line, unless the business specifically targets such ads to the same customers or potential customers as being targeted by the on-line content business of the Company, its subsidiary or affiliate. Ownership of not more than 1% of the outstanding stock of any publicly traded company shall not be a violation of this paragraph. This agreement not to compete will expire upon the first anniversary of the date of your termination of employment with the Company.
You agree, for yourself and others acting on your behalf, that you (and they) have not disparaged and will not disparage, make negative statements about or act in any manner which is intended to or does damage to the good will of, or the business or personal reputations of the Company or any of its incumbent or former officers, directors, agents, consultants, employees, successors and assigns or any of the Covered Parties.
This agreement in no way restricts or prevents you from providing truthful testimony concerning the Company to judicial, administrative, regulatory or other governmental authorities.
 
In addition, you agree that the Company is the owner of all rights, title and interest in and to all documents, tapes, videos, designs, plans, formulas, models, processes, computer programs, inventions (whether patentable or not), schematics, music, lyrics and other technical, business, financial, advertising, sales, marketing, customer or product development plans, forecasts, strategies, information and materials (in any medium whatsoever) developed or prepared by you or with your cooperation in connection with your employment by the Company (the "Materials"). For purposes of clarity, Materials shall not include any music or lyrics written (in the past or in the future) by you, and shall not include any documents, tapes or videos that relate to such music or lyrics or the performances of such music or lyrics other than music or lyrics written in connection with your employment. The Company will have the sole and exclusive authority to use the Materials in any manner that it deems appropriate, in perpetuity, without additional payment to you.
Following the date of termination of your employment with the Company (the ""), you will no longer provide any regular services to the Company or represent yourself as a Company agent. If, however, the Company so requests, you agree to cooperate fully with the Company in connection with any matter with which you were involved prior to the Expiration Date, or in any litigation or administrative proceedings or appeals (including any preparation therefore) where the Company believes that your personal knowledge, attendance and participation could be beneficial to the Company. This cooperation includes, without limitation, participation on behalf of the Company in any litigation or administrative proceeding brought by any former or existing Company employees, teams, players, coaches, guests, representatives, agents or vendors. The Company will pay you for your services rendered under this provision at the rate of $8,400 per day for each day or part thereof, within 30 days of approved invoice therefore.
Expiration Date
Unless the Company determines in good faith that you have committed any malfeasance during your employment by the Company, the Company agrees that its corporate officers and directors, employees in its public relations department or third party public relations representatives retained by the Company will not disparage you or make negative statements in the press or other media which are damaging to your business or personal reputation. In the event that the Company so disparages you or makes such negative statements, then notwithstanding the "Additional Understandings" provision to the contrary, you may make a proportional response thereto.
The Company will provide you with reasonable notice in connection with any cooperation it requires in accordance with this section and will take reasonable steps to schedule your cooperation in any such matters so as not to materially interfere with your other professional and personal commitments. The Company will reimburse you for any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses you reasonably incur in connection with the cooperation you provide hereunder as soon as practicable after you present appropriate documentation evidencing such expenses. You agree to provide the Company with an estimate of such expense before you incur the same.
 
You agree not to hire, seek to hire, or cause any person or entity to hire or seek to hire (without the prior written consent of the Company), directly or indirectly (whether for your own interest or any other person or entity's interest) any then current employee of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (other than MSG and its subsidiaries), until the first anniversary of the date of your termination of employment with the Company. This restriction does not apply to any employee who was discharged by the Company. In addition, this restriction will not prevent you from providing references.
You acknowledge that the restrictions contained in this Annex B, in light of the nature of the Company's business and your position and responsibilities, are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company. You acknowledge that the Company has no adequate remedy at law and would be irreparably harmed if you breach or threaten to breach the provisions of this Annex B, and therefore agree that the Company shall be entitled to injunctive relief, to prevent any breach or threatened breach of any of those provisions and to specific performance of the terms of each of such provisions in addition to any other legal or equitable remedy it may have. You further agree that you will not, in any equity proceeding relating to the enforcement of the provisions of this Annex B, raise the defense that the Company has an adequate remedy at law. Nothing in this Annex B shall be construed as prohibiting the Company from pursuing any other remedies at law or in equity that it may have or any other rights that it may have under any other agreement. If it is determined that any of the provisions of this Annex B or any part thereof, is unenforceable because of the duration or scope (geographic or otherwise) of such provision, it is the intention of the parties that the duration or scope of such provision, as the case may be, shall be reduced so that such provision becomes enforceable and, in its reduced form, such provision shall then be enforceable and shall be enforced.
The provisions of this Annex B shall survive any termination of your employment by the Company or the expiration of the Agreement.
 
Any controversy or claim between you and the Company relating to an Employment Matter will be finally settled by arbitration in the County of New York administered by the American Arbitration Association (the "") under its Commercial Arbitration Rules then in effect. However, the AAA's Commercial Arbitration Rules will be modified in the following ways: (i) the decision must not be a compromise but must be the adoption of the submission by one of the parties, (ii) each arbitrator will agree to treat as confidential, all evidence and other information presented to the arbitrator, (iii) there will be no authority to award punitive damages (and you and the Company agree not to request any such award), (iv) there will be no authority to amend or modify the terms of this Agreement (and you and the Company agree not to request any such amendment or modification), (v) a decision must be rendered within ten business days of the parties' closing statements or submission of post-hearing briefs, and (vi) the arbitration shall be conducted before a panel of three arbitrators, one selected by you within 10 days of the commencement of the arbitration, one selected by the Company within the same period and the third selected jointly by the arbitrators selected by you and the Company or, if they are unable to so agree upon an arbitrator who accepts the appointment within 30 days of the commencement of the arbitration, an arbitrator shall be appointed by the AAA; provided, however, that such arbitrator shall be a partner or former partner at a nationally recognized law firm.
AAA
You or the Company may bring an action or special proceeding in a state or federal court of competent jurisdiction sitting in the County of New York to enforce any arbitration award under the immediately preceding paragraph. Also, the Company may bring such an action or proceeding, in addition to its rights under, and notwithstanding, the immediately preceding paragraph and whether or not an arbitration proceeding has been or is ever initiated, to temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enforce any of the covenants in Annex B. You agree that (i) violating any of the covenants in Annex B would cause damage to the Company that cannot be measured or repaired, (ii) the Company therefore is entitled to an injunction, restraining order or other equitable relief restraining any actual or threatened violation of the covenants in Annex B, (iii) no bond bill needs to be posted for the Company to receive such an injunction, order or other relief and (iv) no proof will be required that monetary damages for violations of the covenants in Annex B would be difficult to calculate and that remedies at law would be inadequate.
YOU AND THE COMPANY IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF ANY STATE OR FEDERAL COURT LOCATED IN THE COUNTY OF NEW YORK OVER ANY EMPLOYMENT MATTER THAT IS NOT OTHERWISE ARBITRATED OR RESOLVED ACCORDING TO THE NEXT PRECEDING paragraph. This includes any action or proceeding to compel arbitration or to enforce an arbitration award. Both you and the Company (i) acknowledge that the forum stated in this paragraph has a reasonable relation to this Agreement and to the relationship between you and the Company and that the submission to the forum will apply even if the forum chooses to apply non-forum law, (ii) waive, to the extent permitted by law, any objection to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of
 
any action or proceeding covered by this paragraph in the forum stated in this paragraph, (iii) agree not to commence any such action or proceeding in any forum other than the forum stated in this paragraph and (iv) agree that, to the extent permitted by law, a final and non-appealable judgment in any such action or proceeding in any such court will be conclusive and binding on you and the Company. However, nothing in this Agreement precludes you or the Company from bringing any action or proceeding in any court for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of the next preceding paragraph and this paragraph.

Exhibit 99.2
December 24, 2009
Mr. James L. Dolan Madison Square Garden, Inc. Two Pennsylvania Plaza New York, NY 10022
Dear Jim:
This letter, effective upon the "Effective Date" (as defined in Annex A hereof), will confirm the terms of your employment by Madison Square Garden, Inc. (the "").
Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in, or may reasonably be expected to result in, a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of Nolo Contendere, or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or felony.
Cause
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets (as constituted immediately prior to such transaction or transactions).
Change in Control
"" means the date on which the spinoff of Madison Square Garden, Inc. from Cablevision Systems Corporation is consummated.
Effective Date
Termination for "" means that (i) without your consent, (A) your base salary or bonus target is reduced, (B) the Company requires that your principal office be located outside of Nassau County or Manhattan, (C) the Company materially breaches its obligations to you under this Agreement, (D) you are no longer the Executive Chairman of the Company, (E) you no longer report directly to the Board of Directors of the Company, or (F) your responsibilities are materially diminished, (ii) you have given the Company written notice, referring specifically to this definition, that you do not consent to such action, (iii) the Company has not corrected such action within 15 days of receiving such notice, and (iv) you voluntarily terminate your employment within 90 days following the happening of the action described in subsection (i) above.
Good Reason
 
You agree to comply with the following covenants in addition to those set forth in the Agreement.
You agree to retain in strict confidence and not divulge, disseminate, copy or disclose to any third party any Confidential Information, other than for legitimate business purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. As used herein, "" means any non-public information that is material or of a confidential, proprietary, commercially sensitive or personal nature of, or regarding, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any current or former director, officer or member of senior management of any of the foregoing (collectively ""). The term Confidential Information includes information in written, digital, oral or any other format and includes, but is not limited to (i) information designated or treated as confidential; (ii) budgets, plans, forecasts or other financial or accounting data; (iii) subscriber, customer, guest, fan, vendor or shareholder lists or data; (iv) technical or strategic information regarding the Covered Parties' programming, advertising, sports, entertainment, theatrical or other businesses; (v) advertising, business, sales or marketing tactics and strategies; (vi) policies, practices, procedures or techniques; (vii) trade secrets or other intellectual property; (vii) information, theories or strategies relating to litigation, arbitration, mediation, investigations or matters relating to governmental authorities; (vii) terms of agreements with third parties and third party trade secrets; (viii) information regarding employees, players, coaches, agents, consultants, advisors or representatives, including their compensation or other human resources policies and procedures; and (ix) any other information the disclosure of which may have an adverse effect on the Covered Parties' business reputation, operations or competitive position, reputation or standing in the community.
Confidential Information
Covered Parties
If disclosed, Confidential Information or Other Information could have an adverse effect on the Company's standing in the community, its business reputation, operations or competitive position or the standing, reputation, operations or competitive position of any of its affiliates (other than Cablevision or its subsidiaries) subsidiaries, officers, directors, employees, teams, players, coaches, consultants or agents or any of the Covered Parties.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of this section, other than with respect to subscriber information, shall not apply to Confidential Information which is:
Notwithstanding anything elsewhere in this Agreement, you are authorized to make any disclosure required of you by any federal, state and local laws or judicial, arbitral or
 
governmental agency proceedings, after providing the Company with prior written notice and an opportunity to respond prior to such disclosure. In addition, this Agreement in no way restricts or prevents you from providing truthful testimony concerning the Company to judicial, administrative, regulatory or other governmental authorities.
You acknowledge that due to your executive position in the Company and your knowledge of the Company's confidential and proprietary information, your employment or affiliation with certain entities would be detrimental to the Company. You agree that, without the prior written consent of the Company, you will not represent, become employed by, consult to, advise in any manner or have any material interest in any business directly or indirectly in any Competitive Entity (as defined below). A "Competitive Entity" shall mean (1) any person or entity (other than Cablevision and its subsidiaries) that (i) owns or operates a professional sports team in the New York City metropolitan area, (ii) creates, produces or presents live sporting events or live entertainment in any metropolitan area in which the Company or any of its subsidiaries owns, operates or has exclusive booking rights to a venue, (iii) owns or operates any New York metropolitan area regional programming network, (iv) owns or operates a programming network in the United States that focuses on music, or (v) directly competes with any other business of the Company or one of its subsidiaries that produced greater than 10% of the Company's revenues in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which the determination is made, or (2) any trade or professional association representing any of the companies covered by this paragraph. Ownership of not more than 1% of the outstanding stock of any publicly traded company shall not be a violation of this paragraph. This agreement not to compete will expire upon the first anniversary of the date of your termination of employment with the Company.
You agree, for yourself and others acting on your behalf, that you (and they) have not disparaged and will not disparage, make negative statements about or act in any manner which is intended to or does damage to the good will of, or the business or personal reputations of the Company or any of its incumbent or former officers, directors, agents, consultants, employees, successors and assigns or any of the Covered Parties.
This agreement in no way restricts or prevents you from providing truthful testimony concerning the Company to judicial, administrative, regulatory or other governmental authorities.
In addition, you agree that the Company is the owner of all rights, title and interest in and to all documents, tapes, videos, designs, plans, formulas, models, processes, computer programs, inventions (whether patentable or not), schematics, music, lyrics and other technical, business, financial, advertising, sales, marketing, customer or product development plans, forecasts, strategies, information and materials (in any medium whatsoever) developed or prepared by you or with your cooperation in connection with your employment by the Company (the "Materials"). For purposes of clarity, Materials shall not include any music or lyrics written (in the past or in the future) by you, and shall not include any documents, tapes or videos that relate to such music or lyrics or the performances of such music or lyrics other than music or lyrics
 
written in connection with your employment. The Company will have the sole and exclusive authority to use the Materials in any manner that it deems appropriate, in perpetuity, without additional payment to you.
Following the date of termination of your employment with the Company (the ""), you will no longer provide any regular services to the Company or represent yourself as a Company agent. If, however, the Company so requests, you agree to cooperate fully with the Company in connection with any matter with which you were involved prior to the Expiration Date, or in any litigation or administrative proceedings or appeals (including any preparation therefore) where the Company believes that your personal knowledge, attendance and participation could be beneficial to the Company. This cooperation includes, without limitation, participation on behalf of the Company in any litigation or administrative proceeding brought by any former or existing Company employees, teams, players, coaches, guests, representatives, agents or vendors. The Company will pay you for your services rendered under this provision at the rate of $8,400 per day for each day or part thereof, within 30 days of approved invoice therefore.
Expiration Date
Unless the Company determines in good faith that you have committed any malfeasance during your employment by the Company, the Company agrees that its corporate officers and directors, employees in its public relations department or third party public relations representatives retained by the Company will not disparage you or make negative statements in the press or other media which are damaging to your business or personal reputation. In the event that the Company so disparages you or makes such negative statements, then notwithstanding the "Additional Understandings" provision to the contrary, you may make a proportional response thereto.
The Company will provide you with reasonable notice in connection with any cooperation it requires in accordance with this section and will take reasonable steps to schedule your cooperation in any such matters so as not to materially interfere with your other professional and personal commitments. The Company will reimburse you for any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses you reasonably incur in connection with the cooperation you provide hereunder as soon as practicable after you present appropriate documentation evidencing such expenses. You agree to provide the Company with an estimate of such expense before you incur the same.
You agree not to hire, seek to hire, or cause any person or entity to hire or seek to hire (without the prior written consent of the Company), directly or indirectly (whether for your own interest or any other person or entity's interest) any then current employee of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (other than Cablevision and its subsidiaries), until the first anniversary of the date of your termination of employment with the Company. This restriction does not apply to any employee who was discharged by the Company. In addition, this restriction will not prevent you from providing references.
 
You acknowledge that the restrictions contained in this Annex B, in light of the nature of the Company's business and your position and responsibilities, are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company. You acknowledge that the Company has no adequate remedy at law and would be irreparably harmed if you breach or threaten to breach the provisions of this Annex B, and therefore agree that the Company shall be entitled to injunctive relief, to prevent any breach or threatened breach of any of those provisions and to specific performance of the terms of each of such provisions in addition to any other legal or equitable remedy it may have. You further agree that you will not, in any equity proceeding relating to the enforcement of the provisions of this Annex B, raise the defense that the Company has an adequate remedy at law. Nothing in this Annex B shall be construed as prohibiting the Company from pursuing any other remedies at law or in equity that it may have or any other rights that it may have under any other agreement. If it is determined that any of the provisions of this Annex B or any part thereof, is unenforceable because of the duration or scope (geographic or otherwise) of such provision, it is the intention of the parties that the duration or scope of such provision, as the case may be, shall be reduced so that such provision becomes enforceable and, in its reduced form, such provision shall then be enforceable and shall be enforced.
The provisions of this Annex B shall survive any termination of your employment by the Company or the expiration of the Agreement.
 
Any controversy or claim between you and the Company relating to an Employment Matter will be finally settled by arbitration in the County of New York administered by the American Arbitration Association (the "") under its Commercial Arbitration Rules then in effect. However, the AAA's Commercial Arbitration Rules will be modified in the following ways: (i) the decision must not be a compromise but must be the adoption of the submission by one of the parties, (ii) each arbitrator will agree to treat as confidential, all evidence and other information presented to the arbitrator, (iii) there will be no authority to award punitive damages (and you and the Company agree not to request any such award), (iv) there will be no authority to amend or modify the terms of this Agreement (and you and the Company agree not to request any such amendment or modification), (v) a decision must be rendered within ten business days of the parties' closing statements or submission of post-hearing briefs, and (vi) the arbitration shall be conducted before a panel of three arbitrators, one selected by you within 10 days of the commencement of the arbitration, one selected by the Company within the same period and the third selected jointly by the arbitrators selected by you and the Company or, if they are unable to so agree upon an arbitrator who accepts the appointment within 30 days of the commencement of the arbitration, an arbitrator shall be appointed by the AAA; provided, however, that such arbitrator shall be a partner or former partner at a nationally recognized law firm.
AAA
You or the Company may bring an action or special proceeding in a state or federal court of competent jurisdiction sitting in the County of New York to enforce any arbitration award under the immediately preceding paragraph. Also, the Company may bring such an action or proceeding, in addition to its rights under, and notwithstanding, the immediately preceding paragraph and whether or not an arbitration proceeding has been or is ever initiated, to temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enforce any of the covenants in Annex B. You agree that (i) violating any of the covenants in Annex B would cause damage to the Company that cannot be measured or repaired, (ii) the Company therefore is entitled to an injunction, restraining order or other equitable relief restraining any actual or threatened violation of the covenants in Annex B, (iii) no bond bill needs to be posted for the Company to receive such an injunction, order or other relief and (iv) no proof will be required that monetary damages for violations of the covenants in Annex B would be difficult to calculate and that remedies at law would be inadequate.
YOU AND THE COMPANY IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF ANY STATE OR FEDERAL COURT LOCATED IN THE COUNTY OF NEW YORK OVER ANY EMPLOYMENT MATTER THAT IS NOT OTHERWISE ARBITRATED OR RESOLVED ACCORDING TO THE NEXT PRECEDING PARAGRAPH. This includes any action or proceeding to compel arbitration or to enforce an arbitration award. Both you and the Company (i) acknowledge that the forum stated in this paragraph has a reasonable relation to this Agreement and to the relationship between you and the Company and that the submission to the forum will apply even if the forum chooses to apply non-forum law, (ii) waive, to the extent permitted by law, any objection to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any action or proceeding covered by this paragraph in the forum stated in this
 
paragraph, (iii) agree not to commence any such action or proceeding in any forum other than the forum stated in this paragraph and (iv) agree that, to the extent permitted by law, a final and non-appealable judgment in any such action or proceeding in any such court will be conclusive and binding on you and the Company. However, nothing in this Agreement precludes you or the Company from bringing any action or proceeding in any court for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of the next preceding paragraph and this paragraph.

     
Exhibit 99.3
Mr. Thomas Rutledge Cablevision Systems Corporation 1111 Stewart Avenue Bethpage, NY 11714
Dear Mr. Rutledge:
This letter will confirm the terms of your continued employment by Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "").
Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in, or may reasonably be expected to result in, a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of nolo contendere, or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or felony.
Cause
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (1) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (2) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (1) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. Net revenues shall be determined by independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "New York City Metropolitan Area" means all locations within the following counties (A) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (B) Hudson, Bergen, Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (C) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (D) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
Change in Control
Termination for "" means that (1) without your consent, (A) your base salary or bonus target as an employee is reduced, (B) the Company requires that your principal office be located outside of Nassau County or Manhattan, (C) the Company materially breaches its obligations to you under this Agreement, (D) you are no longer the Chief Operating Officer of the Company, (E) you report directly to someone other than the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, or (F) your responsibilities are materially diminished, (2) you have given the Company written notice, referring specifically to this definition, that you do not consent to such action, (3) the Company has not corrected such action within 15 days of receiving such notice, and (4) you voluntarily terminate your employment within 90 days following the happening of the action described in subsection (1) above.
Good Reason
A "" of your employment means any termination of your employment with the Company that is not a Qualifying Termination.
Non-Qualifying Termination
 
A "" of your employment means any termination of your employment with the Company (1) for any reason by you during the thirteenth calendar month following a Change in Control of the Company, (2) by the Company, (3) by you on or prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date for Good Reason, (4) by you after the Scheduled Expiration Date without Good Reason if you provide the Company with at least six months advance written notice of your intent to so terminate your employment or (5) as a result of your death or physical or mental disability, provided that, at the time of any such termination prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date, Cause does not exist.
Qualifying Termination
 
You agree to comply with the following covenants in addition to those set forth in the Agreement.
You agree to retain in strict confidence and not use for any purpose whatsoever or divulge, disseminate, copy, disclose to any third party, or otherwise use any Confidential Information, other than for legitimate business purposes of the Company and its affiliates. As used herein, "" means any non-public information that is material or of a confidential, proprietary, commercially sensitive or personal nature of, or regarding, the Company or any of its current or former affiliates or any current or former director, officer or member of senior management of any of the foregoing (collectively ""). The term Confidential Information includes information in written, digital, oral or any other format and includes, but is not limited to (i) information designated or treated as confidential; (ii) budgets, plans, forecasts or other financial or accounting data; (iii) subscriber, customer, guest, fan vendor or shareholder lists or data; (iv) technical or strategic information regarding the Covered Parties', cable, data, telephone, programming, advertising, sports, entertainment, film production, theatrical, motion picture exhibition, newspaper, MVDDS or other businesses; (v) advertising, business, sales or marketing tactics and strategies; (vi) policies, practices, procedures or techniques; (vii) trade secrets or other intellectual property; (vii) information, theories or strategies relating to litigation, arbitration, mediation, investigations or matters relating to governmental authorities; (vii) terms of agreements with third parties and third party trade secrets; (viii) information regarding employees, players, coaches, agents, consultants, advisors or representatives, including their compensation or other human resources policies and procedures; and (ix) any other information the disclosure of which may have an adverse effect on the Covered Parties' business reputation, operations or competitive position, reputation or standing in the community.
Confidential Information
Covered Parties
If disclosed, Confidential Information or Other Information could have an adverse effect on the Company's standing in the community, its business reputation, operations or competitive position or the standing, reputation, operations or competitive position of any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, officers, directors, employees, teams, players, coaches, consultants or agents or any of the Covered Parties.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of this section, other than with respect to subscriber information, shall not apply to Confidential Information which is:
 
Notwithstanding anything elsewhere in this Agreement, you are authorized to make any disclosure required of you by any federal, state and local laws or judicial, arbitral or governmental agency proceedings, after providing the Company with prior written notice and an opportunity to respond prior to such disclosure. In addition, this Agreement in no way restricts or prevents you from providing truthful testimony concerning the Company to judicial, administrative, regulatory or other governmental authorities.
You acknowledge that due to your executive position in the Company and your knowledge of the Company's confidential and proprietary information, your employment or affiliation with certain entities would be detrimental to the Company. You agree that, without the prior written consent of the Company, you will not represent, become employed by, consult to, advise in any manner or have any material interest in any business directly or indirectly in any Competitive Entity (as defined below). A "" shall mean (1) any entity that competes with any of the Company's or its affiliates' professional sports teams in the New York metropolitan area; (2) any entity that competes with any of the Company's or its affiliates' cable television, telephone, on-line data, newspaper or on-line businesses in the New York greater metropolitan area or that competes with any of the Company's or its affiliates' programming or live entertainment businesses, nationally or regionally, or any other business of the Company or its subsidiaries that produced greater than 10% of the Company's revenues in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which the determination under this clause (2) is made; or (3) any trade or professional association representing any of the companies covered by this paragraph, other than the National Cable Television Association and any state cable television association. For purposes of this Paragraph 2, an affiliate of the Company shall means an entity that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company. An entity shall be deemed to compete with the on-line content business of the Company or any of its affiliates only if the entity directly competes against the on-line content business of the Company or its affiliate; provided, however, that an entity's business shall not be deemed to directly compete merely by the fact that the business sells ads on-line, unless the business specifically targets such ads to the same customers or potential customers as being targeted by the on-line content business of the Company, its subsidiary or affiliate. Ownership of not more than 1% of the outstanding stock of any publicly traded company shall not be a violation of this paragraph. This agreement not to compete will become effective on the date of the Agreement and will expire upon the first anniversary of the date of your termination of employment with the Company.
Competitive Entity
You agree, for yourself and others acting on your behalf, that you (and they) have not disparaged and will not disparage, make negative statements about or act in any manner which is intended to or does damage to the good will of, or the business or personal reputations of the Company or
 
any of its incumbent or former officers, directors, agents, consultants, employees, successors and assigns or any of the Covered Parties.
In addition, you agree that the Company is the owner of all rights, title and interest in and to all documents, tapes, videos, designs, plans, formulas, models, processes, computer programs, inventions (whether patentable or not), schematics, music, lyrics and other technical, business, financial, advertising, sales, marketing, customer or product development plans, forecasts, strategies, information and materials (in any medium whatsoever) developed or prepared by you or with your cooperation during the course of your employment by the Company (the ""). The Company will have the sole and exclusive authority to use the Materials in any manner that it deems appropriate, in perpetuity, without additional payment to you.
Materials
Following the date of termination of your employment with the Company (the ""), you will no longer provide any regular services to the Company or represent yourself as a Company agent. If, however, the Company so requests, you agree to cooperate fully with the Company in connection with any matter with which you were involved prior to the Expiration Date, or in any litigation or administrative proceedings or appeals (including any preparation therefore) where the Company believes that your personal knowledge, attendance and participation could be beneficial to the Company. This cooperation includes, without limitation, participation on behalf of the Company in any litigation or administrative proceeding brought by any former or existing Company employees, teams, players, coaches, guests, representatives, agents or vendors. The Company will pay you for your services rendered under this provision at the rate of $6,800 per day for each day or part thereof, within 30 days of approved invoice therefore.
Expiration Date
Unless the Company determines in good faith that you have committed any malfeasance during your employment by the Company, the Company agrees that its corporate officers and directors, employees in its public relations department or third party public relations representatives retained by the Company will not disparage you or make negative statements in the press or other media which are damaging to your business or personal reputation. In the event that the Company so disparages you or makes such negative statements, then notwithstanding the "Additional Understandings" provision to the contrary, you may make a proportional response thereto.
The Company will provide you with reasonable notice in connection with any cooperation it requires in accordance with this section and will take reasonable steps to schedule your cooperation in any such matters so as not to materially interfere with your other professional and personal commitments. The Company will reimburse you for any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses you reasonably incur in connection with the cooperation you provide hereunder as soon as practicable after you present appropriate documentation evidencing such expenses. You agree to provide the Company with an estimate of such expense before you incur the same.
 
You agree not to hire, seek to hire, or cause any person or entity to hire or seek to hire (without the prior written consent of the Company), directly or indirectly (whether for your own interest or any other person or entity's interest) any then current employee of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, until the first anniversary of the date of your termination of employment with the Company. This restriction does not apply to any employee who was discharged by the Company. In addition, this restriction will not prevent you from providing references.
You acknowledge that the restrictions contained in this Annex B, in light of the nature of the Company's business and your position and responsibilities, are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company. You acknowledge that the Company has no adequate remedy at law and would be irreparably harmed if you breach or threaten to breach the provisions of this Annex B, and therefore agree that the Company shall be entitled to injunctive relief, to prevent any breach or threatened breach of any of those provisions and to specific performance of the terms of each of such provisions in addition to any other legal or equitable remedy it may have. You further agree that you will not, in any equity proceeding relating to the enforcement of the provisions of this Annex B, raise the defense that the Company has an adequate remedy at law. Nothing in this Annex B shall be construed as prohibiting the Company from pursuing any other remedies at law or in equity that it may have or any other rights that it may have under any other agreement. If it is determined that any of the provisions of this Annex B or any part thereof, is unenforceable because of the duration or scope (geographic or otherwise) of such provision, it is the intention of the parties that the duration or scope of such provision, as the case may be, shall be reduced so that such provision becomes enforceable and, in its reduced form, such provision shall then be enforceable and shall be enforced.
The provisions of this Annex B shall survive any termination of your employment by the Company or the expiration of the Agreement.
 
The performance objective for the One Time Special Award of Restricted Stock is Business Unit AOCF for the period January 1 through September 30, 2010 of at least 90% of Business Unit AOCF for the period January 1 through September 2009.
Business Unit AOCF will be based on actual financial performance for the period January 1 through September 30, 2010 and 2009, modified to neutralize the impact of the following items in both years, in each case to the extent not already contemplated by the 2010 Budget:
Vesting of the restricted shares for both applicable vesting dates is conditioned on achievement of this target.
 

Exhibit 99.4
Mr. Hank Ratner Cablevision Systems Corporation 1111 Stewart Avenue Bethpage, NY 11714
Dear Mr. Ratner:
This letter, effective upon the "Effective Date" (as defined in Annex A hereof), will confirm the terms of your continued employment by Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "").
Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in, or may reasonably be expected to result in, a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of Nolo Contendere, or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or felony.
Cause
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of (i) the power to direct the management of substantially all the cable television systems then owned by the Company in the New York City Metropolitan Area (as hereinafter defined) or (ii) after any fiscal year of the Company in which all the systems referred to in clause (i) above shall have contributed in the aggregate less than a majority of the net revenues of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets. Net revenues shall be determined by independent accountants of the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied and certified by such accountants. "New York City Metropolitan Area" means all locations within the following counties (A) New York, Richmond, Kings, Queens, Bronx, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, Dutchess, and Ulster in New York State; (B) Hudson, Bergen Passaic, Sussex, Warren, Hunterdon, Somerset, Union, Morris, Middlesex, Mercer, Monmouth, Essex and Ocean in New Jersey; (C) Pike in Pennsylvania; and (D) Fairfield and New Haven in Connecticut.
Change in Control
"" means the date on which the spinoff of Madison Square Garden, Inc. from Cablevision Systems Corporation is consummated. If the spinoff is not consummated by December 31, 2009, the term of your employment under the 2003 Employment Agreement shall be extended until the earlier of the date on which the spinoff is consummated or March 31, 2010. Aside from changing the expiration date, the prior sentence shall not have any effect upon the rights or obligations of you or the Company under the 2003 Employment Agreement and, in the event that the Effective Date does not occur by March 31, 2010, you and the Company shall have the same rights and obligations as of March 31, 2010 that each would have had under the 2003 Employment Agreement as of December 31, 2009 as if neither party had not been subject to this paragraph.
Effective Date
Termination for "" means that (1) without your consent, (A) your base salary or bonus target as an employee is reduced, (B) prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date, the aggregate target value of your awards (as determined in good faith by the Compensation Committee at the time of grant and including the anticipated annual Award Amount increase under Section 1 of your outstanding Deferred Compensation Award with respect to the year) under the long-term cash or equity programs and arrangements of the Company is less than $1.4
Good Reason
 
million, unless such reduction in value is in proportion to the reduction in the aggregate target values of the awards granted for such year to all of Named Executive Officers listed in the Company's proxy relating to the immediately preceding year that are still full-time executive officers at the time of such reduction, (C) the Company requires that your principal office be located outside of Nassau County or Manhattan, (D) the Company materially breaches its obligations to you under this Agreement, (E) you are no longer the Vice Chairman of the Company, (F) you report directly to someone other than the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company or, provided that James Dolan is the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, the Chief Executive Office of the Company, (G) your responsibilities immediately after the Effective Date are thereafter materially diminished, or (H) if (i) prior to December 31, 2014, your employment with MSG is terminated by MSG without "Cause" or by you for "Good Reason" (as Cause and Good Reason are defined in the MSG Employment Agreement as of the date hereof), (ii) you have been unable to find a position with another company that (a) is comparable in responsibility, stature and compensation to your position at MSG, and (b) would accommodate your continuing responsibilities at the Company under this Agreement, despite a good faith effort to find such a position over the 30-day period following such termination of your employment with MSG and you provide prompt notice thereof to the Company, and (iii) within 15 days of the Company's receipt of such notice, the Company fails to offer you full-time employment with the Company with (x) responsibility comparable to that which you had at the Company prior to the Effective Date and (y) an annual base salary of no less than $1,638,000, a target annual bonus of no less than 200% of your annual base salary, and an opportunity to receive future grants under the long-term cash or equity programs and arrangements at the level available to senior management of the Company, (2) you have given the Company written notice, referring specifically to this definition, that you do not consent to such action (including the failure by the Company to make an employment offer in the case of clause (H) above), (3) the Company has not corrected such action within 15 days of receiving such notice, and (4) you voluntarily terminate your employment within 90 days following the happening of the action described in subsection (1) above.
"" means you and the Company have mutually agreed in writing to terminate your employment with the Company and that such termination of employment shall not constitute a termination by the Company with or without Cause or by you with or without Good Reason.
Mutual Consent
A "" of your employment means any termination of your employment with the Company that is not a Qualifying Termination.
Non-Qualifying Termination
A "" of your employment means any termination of your employment with the Company (1) for any reason by you during the thirteenth calendar month following a Change in Control of the Company, (2) by the Company, (3) by you for Good Reason or (4) by you after the Scheduled Expiration Date without Good Reason if you provide the Company with at least six months advance written notice of your intent to so terminate your employment, (5) as a result of your death or physical or mental disability, or (6) as a result of Mutual Consent, provided that at the time of any such termination described above prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date, Cause does not exist.
Qualifying Termination
 
You agree to comply with the following covenants in addition to those set forth in the Agreement.
You agree to retain in strict confidence and not divulge, disseminate, copy or disclose to any third party any Confidential Information, other than for legitimate business purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. As used herein, "Confidential Information" means any non-public information that is material or of a confidential, proprietary, commercially sensitive or personal nature of, or regarding, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any current or former director, officer or member of senior management of any of the foregoing (collectively "Covered Parties"). The term Confidential Information includes information in written, digital, oral or any other format and includes, but is not limited to (i) information designated or treated as confidential; (ii) budgets, plans, forecasts or other financial or accounting data; (iii) subscriber, customer, fan, vendor or shareholder lists or data; (iv) technical or strategic information regarding the Covered Parties', cable, data, telephone, programming, advertising, film production, motion picture exhibition, newspaper, MVDOS or other businesses; (v) advertising, business, sales or marketing tactics and strategies; (vi) policies, practices, procedures or techniques; (vii) trade secrets or other intellectual property; (vii) information, theories or strategies relating to litigation, arbitration, mediation, investigations or matters relating to governmental authorities; (vii) terms of agreements with third parties and third party trade secrets; (viii) information regarding employees, agents, consultants, advisors or representatives, including their compensation or other human resources policies and procedures; and (ix) any other information the disclosure of which may have an adverse effect on the Covered Parties' business reputation, operations or competitive position, reputation or standing in the community.
If disclosed, Confidential Information or Other Information could have an adverse effect on the Company's standing in the community, its business reputation, operations or competitive position or the standing, reputation, operations or competitive position of any of its affiliates (other than MSG and its Subsidiaries) subsidiaries, officers, directors, employees, teams, players, coaches, consultants or agents or any of the Covered Parties.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of this section, other than with respect to subscriber information, shall not apply to Confidential Information which is:
 
Notwithstanding anything elsewhere in this Agreement, you are authorized to make any disclosure required of you by any federal, state and local laws or judicial, arbitral or governmental agency proceedings, after providing the Company with prior written notice and an opportunity to respond prior to such disclosure. In addition, this Agreement in no way restricts or prevents you from providing truthful testimony concerning the Company to judicial, administrative, regulatory or other governmental authorities.
You acknowledge that due to your executive position in the Company and your knowledge of the Company's confidential and proprietary information, your employment or affiliation with certain entities would be detrimental to the Company. You agree that, without the prior written consent of the Company, you will not represent, become employed by, consult to, advise in any manner or have any material interest in any business directly or indirectly in any Competitive Entity (as defined below). A "Competitive Entity" shall mean (1) any person or entity (other than MSG and its subsidiaries) that competes with any of the Company's or its affiliates cable television, telephone, on-line data, on-line content, or newspaper businesses or that competes with any of the Company's or its affiliates' programming businesses, nationally or regionally or that competes with any other business of the Company or its affiliates that produced greater than 10% of the Company's revenues in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which the determination is made; or (2) any trade or professional association representing any of the companies covered by this paragraph, other than the National Cable Television Association and any state cable television association. For purposes of this paragraph 2, an affiliate of the Company shall mean an entity that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or under common control with, the Company (other than MSG and its subsidiaries). An entity shall be deemed to compete with the on-line content business of the Company, or any of its affiliates only if the entity directly competes against the on-line content business of the Company, or its affiliate; provided, however, that an entity's business shall not be deemed to directly compete merely by the fact that the business sells ads on-line, unless the business specifically targets such ads to the same customers or potential customers as being targeted by the on-line content business of the Company, its subsidiary or affiliate. Ownership of not more than 1% of the outstanding stock of any publicly traded company shall not be a violation of this paragraph. This agreement not to compete will expire upon the first anniversary of the date of your termination of employment with the Company.
You agree, for yourself and others acting on your behalf, that you (and they) have not disparaged and will not disparage, make negative statements about or act in any manner which is intended to or does damage to the good will of, or the business or personal reputations of the Company or any of its incumbent or former officers, directors, agents, consultants, employees, successors and assigns or any of the Covered Parties.
In addition, you agree that the Company is the owner of all rights, title and interest in and to all documents, tapes, videos, designs, plans, formulas, models, processes, computer programs,
 
inventions (whether patentable or not), schematics, music, lyrics and other technical, business, financial, advertising, sales, marketing, customer or product development plans, forecasts, strategies, information and materials (in any medium whatsoever) developed or prepared by you or with your cooperation during the course of your employment by the Company (the "Materials"). The Company will have the sole and exclusive authority to use the Materials in any manner that it deems appropriate, in perpetuity, without additional payment to you.
Following the date of termination of your employment with the Company (the "Expiration Date"), you will no longer provide any regular services to the Company or represent yourself as a Company agent. If, however, the Company so requests, you agree to cooperate fully with the Company in connection with any matter with which you were involved prior to the Expiration Date, or in any litigation or administrative proceedings or appeals (including any preparation therefore) where the Company believes that your personal knowledge, attendance and participation could be beneficial to the Company. This cooperation includes, without limitation, participation on behalf of the Company in any litigation or administrative proceeding brought by any former or existing Company employees, teams, players, coaches, guests, representatives, agents or vendors. The Company will pay you for your services rendered under this provision at the rate of $6,800 per day for each day or part thereof, within 30 days of approved invoice therefore.
Unless the Company determines in good faith that you have committed any malfeasance during your employment by the Company, the Company agrees that its corporate officers and directors, employees in its public relations department or third party public relations representatives retained by the Company will not disparage you or make negative statements in the press or other media which are damaging to your business or personal reputation. In the event that the Company so disparages you or makes such negative statements, then notwithstanding the "Additional Understandings" provision to the contrary, you may make a proportional response thereto.
The Company will provide you with reasonable notice in connection with any cooperation it requires in accordance with this section and will take reasonable steps to schedule your cooperation in any such matters so as not to materially interfere with your other professional and personal commitments. The Company will reimburse you for any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses you reasonably incur in connection with the cooperation you provide hereunder as soon as practicable after you present appropriate documentation evidencing such expenses. You agree to provide the Company with an estimate of such expense before you incur the same.
You agree not to hire, seek to hire, or cause any person or entity to hire or seek to hire (without the prior written consent of the Company), directly or indirectly (whether for your own interest or any other person or entity's interest) any then current employee of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (other than MSG and its subsidiaries), until the first anniversary of the date of your termination of employment with the Company. This restriction does not apply to
 
any employee who was discharged by the Company. In addition, this restriction will not prevent you from providing references.
You acknowledge that the restrictions contained in this Annex B, in light of the nature of the Company's business and your position and responsibilities, are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company. You acknowledge that the Company has no adequate remedy at law and would be irreparably harmed if you breach or threaten to breach the provisions of this Annex B, and therefore agree that the Company shall be entitled to injunctive relief, to prevent any breach or threatened breach of any of those provisions and to specific performance of the terms of each of such provisions in addition to any other legal or equitable remedy it may have. You further agree that you will not, in any equity proceeding relating to the enforcement of the provisions of this Annex B, raise the defense that the Company has an adequate remedy at law. Nothing in this Annex B shall be construed as prohibiting the Company from pursuing any other remedies at law or in equity that it may have or any other rights that it may have under any other agreement. If it is determined that any of the provisions of this Annex B or any part thereof, is unenforceable because of the duration or scope (geographic or otherwise) of such provision, it is the intention of the parties that the duration or scope of such provision, as the case may be, shall be reduced so that such provision becomes enforceable and, in its reduced form, such provision shall then be enforceable and shall be enforced.
The provisions of this Annex B shall survive any termination of your employment by the Company or the expiration of the Agreement.

Exhibit 99.5
Mr. Hank Ratner Madison Square Garden, Inc. Two Pennsylvania Plaza New York, NY 10022
Dear Mr. Ratner:
This letter, effective upon the "Effective Date" (as defined in Annex A hereof), will confirm the terms of your employment by Madison Square Garden, Inc. (the "").
Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in, or may reasonably be expected to result in, a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of Nolo Contendere, or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or felony.
Cause
"" means the acquisition, in a transaction or a series of related transactions, by any person or group, other than Charles F. Dolan or members of the immediate family of Charles F. Dolan or trusts for the benefit of Charles F. Dolan or his immediate family (or an entity or entities controlled by any of them) or any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company, of the power to direct the management of the Company or substantially all its assets (as constituted immediately prior to such transaction or transactions).
Change in Control
"" means the date on which the spinoff of Madison Square Garden, Inc. from Cablevision Systems Corporation is consummated.
Effective Date
Termination for "" means that (1) without your consent, (A) your base salary or bonus target as an employee is reduced, (B) the Company requires that your principal office be located outside of Nassau County or Manhattan, (C) the Company materially breaches its obligations to you under this Agreement, (D) you are no longer the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, (E) you report directly to someone other than the Chairman (or the Executive Chairman), or (F) your responsibilities are materially diminished, (2) you have given the Company written notice, referring specifically to this definition, that you do not consent to such action, (3) the Company has not corrected such action within 15 days of receiving such notice, and (4) you voluntarily terminate your employment within 90 days following the happening of the action described in subsection (1) above.
Good Reason
"" means you and the Company mutually agree in writing to terminate your employment with the Company and that such termination of employment shall not constitute a termination by the Company with or without Cause or by you with or without Good Reason.
Mutual Consent
 
You agree to comply with the following covenants in addition to those set forth in the Agreement.
1. CONFIDENTIALITY
You agree to retain in strict confidence and not divulge, disseminate, copy or disclose to any third party any Confidential Information, other than for legitimate business purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. As used herein, "" means any non-public information that is material or of a confidential, proprietary, commercially sensitive or personal nature of, or regarding, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any current or former director, officer or member of senior management of any of the foregoing (collectively ""). The term Confidential Information includes information in written, digital, oral or any other format and includes, but is not limited to (i) information designated or treated as confidential; (ii) budgets, plans, forecasts or other financial or accounting data; (iii) subscriber, customer, guest, fan, vendor or shareholder lists or data; (iv) technical or strategic information regarding the Covered Parties' programming, advertising, sports, entertainment, theatrical or other businesses; (v) advertising, business, sales or marketing tactics and strategies; (vi) policies, practices, procedures or techniques; (vii) trade secrets or other intellectual property; (vii) information, theories or strategies relating to litigation, arbitration, mediation, investigations or matters relating to governmental authorities; (vii) terms of agreements with third parties and third party trade secrets; (viii) information regarding employees, players, coaches, agents, consultants, advisors or representatives, including their compensation or other human resources policies and procedures; and (ix) any other information the disclosure of which may have an adverse effect on the Covered Parties' business reputation, operations or competitive position, reputation or standing in the community.
Confidential Information
Covered Parties
If disclosed, Confidential Information or Other Information could have an adverse effect on the Company's standing in the community, its business reputation, operations or competitive position or the standing, reputation, operations or competitive position of any of its affiliates (other than Cablevision or its subsidiaries) subsidiaries, officers, directors, employees, teams, players, coaches, consultants or agents or any of the Covered Parties.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of this section, other than with respect to subscriber information, shall not apply to Confidential Information which is:
a) already in the public domain;
b) disclosed to you by a third party with the right to disclose it in good faith; or
c) specifically exempted in writing by the Company from the applicability of this Agreement.
Notwithstanding anything elsewhere in this Agreement, you are authorized to make any disclosure required of you by any federal, state and local laws or judicial, arbitral or governmental agency proceedings, after providing the Company with prior written notice and an
 
opportunity to respond prior to such disclosure. In addition, this Agreement in no way restricts or prevents you from providing truthful testimony concerning the Company to judicial, administrative, regulatory or other governmental authorities.
2. Non-Compete
You acknowledge that due to your executive position in the Company and your knowledge of the Company's confidential and proprietary information, your employment or affiliation with certain entities would be detrimental to the Company. You agree that, without the prior written consent of the Company, you will not represent, become employed by, consult to, advise in any manner or have any material interest in any business directly or indirectly in any Competitive Entity (as defined below). A "Competitive Entity" shall mean (1) any person or entity (other than Cablevision and its subsidiaries) that (i) owns or operates a professional sports team in the New York City metropolitan area, (ii) creates, produces or presents live sporting events or live entertainment in any metropolitan area in which the Company or any of its subsidiaries owns, operates, or has exclusive booking rights to a venue, (iii) owns or operates any New York metropolitan area regional programming network, (iv) owns or operates a programming network in the United States that focuses on music, or (v) directly competes with any other business of the Company or one of its subsidiaries that produced greater than 10% of the Company's revenues in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which the determination is made, or (2) any trade or professional association representing any of the companies covered by this paragraph. Ownership of not more than 1% of the outstanding stock of any publicly traded company shall not be a violation of this paragraph. This agreement not to compete will expire upon the first anniversary of the date of your termination of employment with the Company.
3. Additional Understandings
You agree, for yourself and others acting on your behalf, that you (and they) have not disparaged and will not disparage, make negative statements about or act in any manner which is intended to or does damage to the good will of, or the business or personal reputations of the Company or any of its incumbent or former officers, directors, agents, consultants, employees, successors and assigns or any of the Covered Parties.
In addition, you agree that the Company is the owner of all rights, title and interest in and to all documents, tapes, videos, designs, plans, formulas, models, processes, computer programs, inventions (whether patentable or not), schematics, music, lyrics and other technical, business, financial, advertising, sales, marketing, customer or product development plans, forecasts, strategies, information and materials (in any medium whatsoever) developed or prepared by you or with your cooperation during the course of your employment by the Company (the "Materials"). The Company will have the sole and exclusive authority to use the Materials in any manner that it deems appropriate, in perpetuity, without additional payment to you.
4. Further Cooperation
Following the date of termination of your employment with the Company (the "Expiration Date"), you will no longer provide any regular services to the Company or represent yourself as a Company agent. If, however, the Company so requests, you agree to cooperate fully with the
 
Company in connection with any matter with which you were involved prior to the Expiration Date, or in any litigation or administrative proceedings or appeals (including any preparation therefore) where the Company believes that your personal knowledge, attendance and participation could be beneficial to the Company. This cooperation includes, without limitation, participation on behalf of the Company in any litigation or administrative proceeding brought by any former or existing Company employees, teams, players, coaches, guests, representatives, agents or vendors. The Company will pay you for your services rendered under this provision at the rate of $6,800 per day for each day or part thereof, within 30 days of approved invoice therefore.
Unless the Company determines in good faith that you have committed any malfeasance during your employment by the Company, the Company agrees that its corporate officers and directors, employees in its public relations department or third party public relations representatives retained by the Company will not disparage you or make negative statements in the press or other media which are damaging to your business or personal reputation. In the event that the Company so disparages you or makes such negative statements, then notwithstanding the "Additional Understandings" provision to the contrary, you may make a proportional response thereto.
The Company will provide you with reasonable notice in connection with any cooperation it requires in accordance with this section and will take reasonable steps to schedule your cooperation in any such matters so as not to materially interfere with your other professional and personal commitments. The Company will reimburse you for any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses you reasonably incur in connection with the cooperation you provide hereunder as soon as practicable after you present appropriate documentation evidencing such expenses. You agree to provide the Company with an estimate of such expense before you incur the same.
5. Non-Hire or Solicit
You agree not to hire, seek to hire, or cause any person or entity to hire or seek to hire (without the prior written consent of the Company), directly or indirectly (whether for your own interest or any other person or entity's interest) any then current employee of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (other than Cablevision and its subsidiaries), until the first anniversary of the date of your termination of employment with the Company. This restriction does not apply to any employee who was discharged by the Company. In addition, this restriction will not prevent you from providing references.
6. Acknowledgements.
You acknowledge that the restrictions contained in this Annex B, in light of the nature of the Company's business and your position and responsibilities, are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company. You acknowledge that the Company has no adequate remedy at law and would be irreparably harmed if you breach or threaten to breach the provisions of this Annex B, and therefore agree that the Company shall be entitled to injunctive relief, to prevent any breach or threatened breach of any of those provisions and to specific performance of the terms of each of such provisions in addition to any other legal or equitable remedy it may have. You further agree that you will not, in any equity proceeding relating to the
 
enforcement of the provisions of this Annex B, raise the defense that the Company has an adequate remedy at law. Nothing in this Annex B shall be construed as prohibiting the Company from pursuing any other remedies at law or in equity that it may have or any other rights that it may have under any other agreement. If it is determined that any of the provisions of this Annex B or any part thereof, is unenforceable because of the duration or scope (geographic or otherwise) of such provision, it is the intention of the parties that the duration or scope of such provision, as the case may be, shall be reduced so that such provision becomes enforceable and, in its reduced form, such provision shall then be enforceable and shall be enforced.
7. Surviving.
The provisions of this Annex B shall survive any termination of your employment by the Company or the expiration of the Agreement.
 
The performance objective for the One Time Special Award of Restricted Stock is Business Unit AOCF (excludes corporate and LTIP) for any of calendar year 2010, 2011 or 2012 of at least 90% of Business Unit AOCF (excludes corporate and LTIP) for calendar year 2009 (the "Base Year").
Business Unit AOCF will be based on actual financial performance, modified to neutralize the impact of the following items in both the measured year and the Base Year, in each case to the extent not already contemplated by the 2010 Budget and Plan, as approved in December 2009:


