FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20101118085939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01.
Other Events.
     On November 18, 2010, Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") announced that its Board of Directors authorized exploring a potential leveraged spin-off of the Rainbow Media Holdings business to Cablevision stockholders. A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
     99.1 Press Release dated November 18, 2010.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 18, 2010
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 18, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 Cablevision Systems Corporation (NYSE:CVC) today announced that its board of directors has authorized the company's management to explore a potential leveraged spin-off of its Rainbow Media Holdings LLC business to Cablevision's stockholders, which would be structured as a tax-free pro rata distribution to stockholders. In addition, the Board has approved filing the necessary documents with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to seek a private letter ruling with respect to the transaction's tax-free status.
Bethpage, N.Y., November 18, 2010
Cablevision is confident of the strength of the Rainbow business, which houses an attractive portfolio of programming assets, and believes that the spin-off has the potential to enhance the value of that business and Cablevision, thereby providing each company with greater flexibility to pursue strategic objectives. If the transaction moves forward, it is anticipated that a new, public Rainbow company would include:
Businesses that are expected to remain a part of Cablevision, should the Rainbow spin-off occur, include the cable and telecommunications business, , News 12 Networks, MSG Varsity and Clearview Cinemas.
Newsday
The company would target mid-year 2011 for completion of the proposed spin-off, which is subject to a number of factors, including receipt of a private letter ruling from the IRS and approval by the board of directors. Cablevision notes that there can be no assurance that a transaction will be consummated.
The company is not considering the sale of Rainbow or its cable and telecommunications business.
Cablevision Systems Corporation (NYSE: CVC) is one of the nation's leading media and entertainment companies. Its assets include its cable television operations, which provide industry-leading services to more than 3 million New York area households, and its award-winning television networks, which deliver some of today's most watched programming to hundreds of millions of consumers worldwide. A state-of-the-art cable system enables the company to offer a full suite of advanced residential and business communications services that include its iO TV digital television, Optimum Online high-speed Internet, Optimum Voice digital voice, Optimum WiFi wireless Internet, and its Optimum Lightpath integrated business communications solutions. Cablevision also serves the New York area with compelling local content through News 12 Networks, a local news leader; MSG Varsity, a suite of television and online services covering high school activities; and, Newsday Media Group, a business unit that includes , Long Island's leading daily newspaper. In addition, through Rainbow Media Holdings LLC, Cablevision operates successful programming and entertainment businesses, such as AMC, IFC, Sundance Channel, WE tv and IFC Entertainment. The company also owns and operates Clearview Cinemas, which includes Manhattan's famed Ziegfeld Theatre, a frequent and historic venue for film premieres and events.
Newsday


