FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20100115163032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") has entered into two registration rights agreements with Dolan family interests, which are described below and which replace the two previously existing registration rights agreements between Cablevision and Dolan family interests.
     On January 13, 2010, Cablevision entered into a registration rights agreement (the "Dolan Registration Rights Agreement"), with Charles F. Dolan, the Chairman of Cablevision, and all other holders of Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock (other than the Charles F. Dolan Children Trusts referred to below), the Dolan Children's Foundation and the Dolan Family Foundation. Under this agreement, Cablevision will provide the parties to the Dolan Registration Rights Agreement (the "Dolan Parties") (and, in certain cases, transferees and pledgees of shares of Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock owned by these parties) with certain demand and piggyback registration rights with respect to their shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock (including those issued upon conversion of shares of Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock). The Dolan Parties own approximately 32.5 million shares of Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock (the "Dolan Shares"), which represent approximately 59.8% of the outstanding Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock as well as approximately 3.4 million shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock, which represent approximately 1.4% of the outstanding Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock. Such shares of Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock and Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock, collectively, represent approximately 11.9% of Cablevision's outstanding common stock and 41.5% of the aggregate voting power of Cablevision's outstanding common stock.
     Also on January 13, 2010, the Charles F. Dolan Children Trusts (the "Children Trusts") and Cablevision entered into a registration rights agreement (the "Children Trusts Registration Rights Agreement"). Under this agreement, Cablevision will provide the Children Trusts (and, in certain cases, transferees and pledgees of shares of Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock owned by these parties) with certain demand and piggy-back registration rights with respect to their shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock (including those issued upon conversion of shares of Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock). The Children Trusts own approximately 21.9 million shares of Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock (the "Children Trust Shares"), which represent approximately 40.2% of the outstanding Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock, as well as approximately 1.1 million shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock, which represent approximately 0.4% of the outstanding Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock. Such shares of Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock and Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock, collectively, represent approximately 7.6% of Cablevision's common stock and 27.8% of the aggregate voting power of Cablevision's outstanding common stock.
     In the Children Trusts Registration Rights Agreement, each Children Trust will agree that in the case of any sale or disposition of its shares of Cablevision's NY Group Class B Common Stock (other than to Charles F. Dolan or other Dolan family interests) by such Children Trust, or of any of the Children Trust Shares by any other Dolan family interest to which such
Table of Contents
shares of Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock are transferred, such stock will be converted to Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock. The Dolan Registration Rights Agreement does not include a comparable conversion obligation, and the conversion obligation in the Children Trusts Registration Rights Agreement does not apply to the Dolan Shares.
     The Dolan Registration Rights Agreement and the Children Trusts Registration Rights Agreement are included as exhibits to this Form 8-K and the foregoing discussion of those agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to those agreements as so filed.
Distribution of Madison Square Garden, Inc.
     On January 12, 2010, the Board of Directors of Cablevision approved the distribution of all of the common stock of Madison Square Garden, Inc. ("MSG"), a company which owns the sports, entertainment and media businesses previously owned and operated by the MSG segment of Cablevision, to the stockholders of Cablevision (the "Distribution"). The Distribution will take the form of a distribution by Cablevision of one share of MSG Class A Common Stock for every four shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock held of record at the close of business in New York City on January 25, 2010 (the "Record Date") and one share of MSG Class B Common Stock for every four shares of Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock held of record on the Record Date. The Distribution will become effective and the new shares will be distributed on February 9, 2010.
     On January 12, 2010, the Board of Directors of CSC Holdings, LLC ("CSC Holdings") authorized the distribution to Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision"), its sole member, of all of the common stock of MSG. This transaction will take place prior to the Distribution by Cablevision.
     MSG has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement on Form 10 that contains information about MSG and the Distribution. Prior to the Distribution, Cablevision will distribute to its stockholders copies of an Information Statement relating to MSG that is part of the Form 10 filing.
Management Arrangements
     As discussed in Cablevision's Form 8-K, filed on December 24, 2009, Mr. James L. Dolan will be the Executive Chairman of MSG and will devote a portion of his business time to that role. He will retain his position as Cablevision's President and Chief Executive Officer and will devote most of his business time to that role.
     Hank J. Ratner will be the President and Chief Executive Officer of MSG. It is expected that he will devote a majority of his time to that role but will also retain his position as Cablevision's Vice Chairman and will devote a portion of his time to that role.
Table of Contents
     The following directors of Cablevision will also become directors of MSG in connection with the Distribution: Charles F. Dolan, James L. Dolan, Thomas C. Dolan, Deborah A. Dolan-Sweeney, Marianne Dolan Weber, Brad Dorsogna, Brian G. Sweeney and Vincent Tese.
Agreements with Madison Square Garden, Inc.
     Following the Distribution, MSG will be a public company and Cablevision will have no continuing common stock ownership interest in MSG. For purposes of governing the ongoing relationships between Cablevision and MSG after the Distribution and to provide for an orderly transition, Cablevision and MSG have entered, or will enter, into the agreements described below prior to the Distribution.
     Certain of the agreements summarized below are included as exhibits to this Form 8-K, and the following summaries of those agreements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the agreements as so filed.
Distribution Agreement
     Cablevision and MSG have entered into the Distribution Agreement. Under the Distribution Agreement, Cablevision provides MSG with indemnities with respect to liabilities, damages, costs and expenses arising out of any of (i) Cablevision's businesses (other than businesses of MSG), (ii) certain identified claims or proceedings, (iii) any breach by Cablevision of its obligations under the Distribution Agreement; (iv) any untrue statement or omission in the Form 10 registration statement or the information statement that is part of the Form 10 relating to Cablevision and its subsidiaries; and (v) indemnification obligations MSG may have to the National Basketball Association ("NBA") or the National Hockey League ("NHL") that result from acts or omissions of Cablevision. MSG provides Cablevision with indemnities with respect to liabilities, damages, costs and expenses arising out of any of (i) MSG's businesses, (ii) any breach by MSG of its obligations under the Distribution Agreement; and (iii) any untrue statement or omission in the Form 10 registration statement or the information statement that is part of the Form 10 other than any such statement or omission relating to Cablevision and its subsidiaries.
     In the Distribution Agreement, MSG releases Cablevision from any claims it might have arising out of:
Table of Contents
     The Distribution Agreement also provides that Cablevision will have the sole and absolute discretion to determine whether to proceed with the Distribution, including the form, structure and terms of any transactions to effect the Distribution and the timing of and satisfaction of conditions to the consummation of the Distribution.
     The Distribution Agreement also provides for access to records and information, cooperation in defending litigation, as well as methods of resolution for certain disputes.
Transition Services Agreement
     Cablevision and MSG have entered into a Transition Services Agreement under which, in exchange for the fees specified in such agreement, Cablevision agrees to provide transition services with regard to such areas as tax, information technology, insurance and employee recruiting, compensation and benefits. MSG will agree to provide transition services to Cablevision with regard to those information technology systems that MSG and Cablevision may share. Cablevision and MSG, as parties receiving services under the agreement, have agreed to indemnify the party providing services for losses incurred by such party that arise out of or are otherwise in connection with the provision by such party of services under the agreement, except to the extent that such losses result from the providing party's gross negligence, willful misconduct or breach of its obligations under the agreement. Similarly, each party providing services under the agreement will agree to indemnify the party receiving services for losses incurred by such party that arise out of or are otherwise in connection with the indemnifying party's provision of services under the agreement if such losses result from the providing party's gross negligence, willful misconduct or breach of its obligations under the agreement.
Tax Disaffiliation Agreement
     Cablevision and MSG have entered into a Tax Disaffiliation Agreement that governs their respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to taxes and tax benefits, the filing of tax returns, the control of audits and other tax matters. References in this summary description of the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement to the terms "tax" or "taxes" mean taxes as well as any interest, penalties, additions to tax or additional amounts in respect of such taxes.
     MSG and its eligible subsidiaries currently join with Cablevision in the filing of a consolidated return for U.S. federal income tax purposes and also join with Cablevision in the filing of certain consolidated, combined, and unitary returns for state, local, and other applicable tax purposes. However, for periods (or portions thereof) beginning after the Distribution, MSG generally will not join with Cablevision in the filing of any federal, state, local or other applicable consolidated, combined or unitary tax returns.
     Under the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, except for certain New York City income taxes, Cablevision will be responsible for all of MSG's federal, state, local and other applicable income taxes for any taxable period or portion of such period ending on or before the date of the Distribution.
Table of Contents
     MSG will be responsible for all other taxes (including certain New York City income taxes) for all taxable periods ending on or before the date of the Distribution, and all taxes that are attributable to MSG or one of its subsidiaries after the date of the Distribution. Notwithstanding the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, under U.S. Treasury Regulations, each member of a consolidated group is severally liable for the United States federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group. Accordingly, with respect to periods in which MSG has been included in Cablevision's consolidated group, MSG could be liable to the United States government for any United States federal income tax liability incurred, but not discharged, by any other member of such consolidated group. However, if any such liability were imposed, MSG would generally be entitled to be indemnified by Cablevision for tax liabilities allocated to Cablevision under the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement. MSG will be responsible for filing all tax returns for any period ending after the date of the Distribution that include MSG or one of its subsidiaries other than any consolidated, combined or unitary income tax return for periods after such date (if any) that includes MSG or one of its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and Cablevision or one of its subsidiaries (other than MSG or any of its subsidiaries), on the other hand. MSG also will be responsible for filing, for all periods, all returns related to certain New York City income taxes that include MSG or one of its subsidiaries. Where possible, MSG has waived the right to carry back any losses, credits, or similar items to periods ending prior to or on the date of the Distribution, however, if MSG cannot waive the right, MSG would be entitled to receive the resulting refund or credit, net of any taxes incurred by Cablevision with respect to the refund or credit.
     Generally, MSG will have the authority to conduct all tax proceedings, including tax audits, relating to taxes or any adjustment to taxes for which MSG is responsible for filing a return under the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, and Cablevision will have the authority to conduct all tax proceedings, including tax audits, relating to taxes or any adjustment to taxes for which Cablevision is responsible for filing a return under the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement. However, if one party acknowledges a liability to indemnify the other party for a tax to which such proceeding relates, and provides evidence to the other party of its ability to make such payment, the first-mentioned party will have the authority to conduct such proceeding. The Tax Disaffiliation Agreement further provides for cooperation between Cablevision and MSG with respect to tax matters, the exchange of information and the retention of records that may affect the tax liabilities of the parties to the agreement.
     Finally, the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement provides that none of Cablevision, MSG or any of their respective subsidiaries will take, or fail to take, any action where such action, or failure to act, would be inconsistent with or preclude the Distribution from qualifying as a tax-free transaction to Cablevision and to its stockholders under Section 355 of the Code, or would otherwise cause holders of Cablevision stock receiving MSG stock in the Distribution to be taxed as a result of the Distribution and certain transactions undertaken in connection with the Distribution. Additionally, for the two-year period following the Distribution, Cablevision and MSG may not engage in certain activities that may jeopardize the tax-free treatment of the Distribution to Cablevision and its stockholders, unless, in the case of MSG, MSG receives Cablevision's consent or otherwise obtains a ruling from the IRS or a legal opinion, in either
Table of Contents
case reasonably satisfactory to Cablevision, that the activity will not alter the tax-free status of the Distribution to Cablevision and its stockholders.
     Moreover, MSG must indemnify Cablevision and its subsidiaries, officers and directors for any taxes, resulting from action or failure to act, if such action or failure to act precludes the Distribution from qualifying as a tax-free transaction (including taxes imposed as a result of a violation of the restrictions set forth above). Cablevision must indemnify MSG and its subsidiaries, officers and directors for any taxes resulting from action or failure to act, if such action or failure to act precludes the Distribution from qualifying as a tax-free transaction (including taxes imposed as a result of a violation of the restrictions set forth above).
Employee Matters Agreement
     Cablevision and MSG have entered into an Employee Matters Agreement that allocates assets, liabilities and responsibilities with respect to certain employee compensation and benefit plans and programs and certain other related matters. In general, MSG employees currently participate in various Cablevision retirement, health and welfare, and other employee benefit plans. After the Distribution, it is anticipated that MSG employees will generally participate in similar plans and arrangements established and maintained by MSG; however, MSG shall continue to be a participating company in certain Cablevision employee benefit plans during a transition period. Effective as of the date of the Distribution, MSG and Cablevision will each hold responsibility for their respective employees and compensation plans.
Other
     In connection with the Distribution, Cablevision will also enter into a number of commercial and technical arrangements and agreements with MSG. These will include arrangements for MSG's use of equipment, offices and other premises, lease of transponders, provision of technical and transport services and vendor services, lease of titles in film and other libraries, access to technology, affiliation agreements with MSG programming services and for Cablevision's sponsorship of MSG and its professional sports teams.
Treatment of Outstanding Cablevision Options, Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units and Other Awards
     Cablevision has issued options to purchase, and stock appreciation rights in respect of, its Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock. In connection with the Distribution, each Cablevision option will become two options: one will be an option to acquire Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock and one an option to acquire MSG Class A Common Stock. Similarly, each right will become a right with respect to Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock and a right with respect to MSG Class A Common Stock. The existing exercise price will be allocated between the existing Cablevision options/rights and the new MSG options/rights based upon the ten-day weighted average prices of the Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock and the MSG Class A Common Stock immediately following the Distribution, and the underlying share amount will take into account the 1:4 distribution ratio in the Distribution. The Cablevision options/rights and the new MSG options/rights will not be
Table of Contents
exercisable during a period beginning on a date prior to the Distribution determined by Cablevision in its sole discretion, and continuing until the exercise prices of the Cablevision options/rights and the new MSG options/rights are determined after the Distribution, or such longer period as Cablevision or MSG determine is necessary. Other than the split of the Cablevision options and rights and the allocation of the existing exercise price, there will be no additional adjustment to the existing Cablevision options and rights in connection with the Distribution and the terms of each employee's applicable Cablevision award agreement will continue to govern the Cablevision options and rights.
     Cablevision has issued restricted stock to its employees which vests according to a vesting schedule that was established when the shares were issued. In connection with the Distribution each holder of a Cablevision restricted share will receive one share of MSG Class A Common Stock in respect of each four Cablevision restricted shares. These MSG shares will be subject to the same conditions and restrictions as the Cablevision restricted shares in respect of which they are issued. Following the Distribution, if a holder of Cablevision restricted stock forfeits such restricted stock and therefore forfeits the MSG accompanying shares, Cablevision will return the restricted MSG shares to MSG.
     Cablevision has issued restricted stock units to its non-employee directors which represent unfunded, unsecured rights to receive shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock (or cash or other property) at a future date upon the satisfaction of the conditions specified by the Compensation Committee in the award agreement. Such restricted stock units were fully vested on the date of grant. In connection with the Distribution, each holder of a restricted stock unit will receive one share of MSG Class A Common Stock in respect of each four Cablevision restricted stock units owned on the record date and continue to be entitled to a share of Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock (or cash or other property) in accordance with the award agreement. Cablevision has issued to its non-employee directors options to purchase its Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock, and such options are fully vested. In connection with the Distribution, each Cablevision option will become two options: one will be an option to acquire Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock and one an option to acquire MSG Class A Common Stock. The allocation of exercise price between the existing non-employee director Cablevision options and MSG's new non-employee director options and the number of shares subject to those new options will be determined in the same manner as described above.
     In 2008 and 2009, Cablevision granted three-year performance awards under Cablevision's 2006 CIP. The performance objectives in each employee's applicable award agreement are required to be adjusted to reflect the exclusion of the MSG business from the business of Cablevision.
     Deferred compensation awards granted by Cablevision pursuant to Cablevision's Long-Term Incentive Plan (which was superseded by Cablevision's Cash Incentive Plan in 2006) will be unaffected by the Distribution.
     With respect to outstanding long-term cash and equity awards, Cablevision and MSG will not be regarded as competitive entities of each other for purposes of any non-compete
Table of Contents
provisions contained in the applicable award agreements. With respect to all outstanding Cablevision awards (and MSG options and stock appreciation rights issued in connection with such awards) holders of such awards will continue to vest in them so long as they remain employed by Cablevision, MSG or affiliates of either entity, provided that an employee who moves between Cablevision or one of its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and MSG or one of its subsidiaries, on the other hand, at a time when the two entities are no longer affiliates will not continue to vest in the awards and such change will constitute a termination of employment for purposes of the award agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Messrs. James L. Dolan and Hank J. Ratner will continue to vest in their outstanding Cablevision awards (as well as in MSG stock options and stock appreciation rights issued upon the Distribution with respect to such outstanding Cablevision awards) based solely on their continued service with Cablevision and not in respect of their continued service with MSG and its subsidiaries.
     Cablevision will be responsible for any payments associated with any annual, long-term cash or deferred compensation award granted by Cablevision to Mr. James L. Dolan or Mr. Hank J. Ratner that is outstanding as of the Distribution.
Table of Contents
     (d)
     99.1 Distribution Agreement between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Madison Square Garden, Inc.
     99.2 Transition Services Agreement between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Madison Square Garden, Inc.
     99.3 Tax Disaffiliation Agreement between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Madison Square Garden, Inc.
     99.4 Employee Matters Agreement between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Madison Square Garden, Inc.
     99.5 Registration Rights Agreement between Cablevision Systems Corporation and The Charles F. Dolan Children Trusts.
     99.6 Registration Rights Agreement between Cablevision Systems Corporation and Charles F. Dolan and certain Dolan Family Affiliates.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 15, 2010
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
          This Distribution Agreement (this ), is dated as of January 12, 2010, by and between Cablevision Systems Corporation, a Delaware corporation , and Madison Square Garden, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision (and, together with Cablevision, the ).
"Agreement"
("Cablevision")
"MSG"
"Parties"
          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Cablevision determined that it is in the best interests of Cablevision and its stockholders to separate the businesses of MSG, all as more fully described in MSG's registration statement on Form 10 (collectively, the ), from Cablevision's other businesses on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
"MSG Business"
          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of CSC Holdings, LLC authorized the distribution to Cablevision, as the sole member of CSC of all of the MSG Common Stock (the ) and has determined that the CSC Distribution is in the best interests of CSC and its member and has approved this Agreement;
("CSC")
"CSC Distribution"
          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Cablevision has authorized the distribution to the holders of the issued and outstanding shares of NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Cablevision and NY Group Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Cablevision (and, together with the Cablevision Class A Stock, the ) as of the record date for the distribution of all the issued and outstanding shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of MSG (the ) and Class B common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of MSG (the ) (each such MSG Class A Common Share and MSG Class B Common Share is individually referred to as a and collectively referred to as the ), respectively, on the basis of one MSG Class A Common Share for every four shares of Cablevision Common Stock and one MSG Class B Common Share for every four shares of Cablevision Class B Common Stock (the );
("Cablevision Class A Stock")
"Cablevision Class B Stock"
"Cablevision Common Stock"
"MSG Class A Common Shares"
"MSG Class B Common Shares"
"MSG Share"
"MSG Common Stock"
"Distribution"
          WHEREAS, the Boards of Directors of Cablevision and MSG have each determined that the Distribution and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements (as defined below) are in furtherance of and consistent with the Corporate Business Purposes and, as such, are in the best interests of their respective companies and stockholders or sole member, as applicable, and have approved this Agreement and each of the Ancillary Agreements; and
          WHEREAS, the Parties have determined to set forth the principal corporate and other transactions required to effect the Distribution and to set forth other agreements that will govern certain other matters prior to and following the Distribution.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained in this Agreement, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
          Unless otherwise defined herein or unless the context otherwise requires, as used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Section 1.1 General.
     shall mean any demand, action, suit, arbitration, inquiry, proceeding or investigation by or before any Governmental Authority or any arbitration or mediation tribunal.
"Action"
     shall mean, when used with respect to any specified Person, a Person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with such specified Person. As used herein, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other interests, by contract or otherwise. Unless explicitly provided herein to the contrary, for purposes of this Agreement neither Cablevision nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of MSG or any of its Subsidiaries.
"Affiliate"
"control"
     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(a) of this Agreement.
"Agent"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
"Agreement"
     shall mean all of the written agreements, instruments, understandings, assignments or other arrangements (other than this Agreement) entered into by the Parties or any other member of their respective Groups in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including the Transition Services Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement, the Cablevision Affiliation Agreements, the Registration Rights Agreements, the Sponsorship Agreement, the Subleases, and the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement.
"Ancillary Agreements"
     shall mean the rate of interest per annum announced from time to time by Citibank, N.A., as its prime lending rate.
"Applicable Rate"
     shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which commercial banking institutions located in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
"Business Day"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
"Cablevision"
     shall mean the Affiliation Agreements by and between Cablevision and one or more of the programming businesses of MSG, which agreements are in existence on the date hereof or shall be entered into prior to or on the Distribution Date.
"Cablevision Affiliation Agreements"
 
     shall mean each and every business conducted at any time by Cablevision or any Subsidiary controlled by Cablevision, except the MSG Business.
"Cablevision Business"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
"Cablevision Class A Common Stock"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
"Cablevision Class B Common Stock"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
"Cablevision Common Stock"
     means Cablevision and each Person (other than any member of the MSG Group) that is a Subsidiary of Cablevision immediately after the Distribution Date.
"Cablevision Group"
     shall mean:
"Cablevision Indemnitee"
     (i) Cablevision and each Affiliate thereof after giving effect to the Distribution; and
     (ii) each of the respective Representatives of any of the entities described in the immediately preceding clause (i) and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of such Representatives, except in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), the MSG Indemnitees; , however, that a Person who was a Representative of Cablevision or an Affiliate thereof may be a Cablevision Indemnitee in that capacity notwithstanding that such Person may also be a MSG Indemnitee.
provided
     shall mean:
"Cablevision Liabilities"
     (i) any and all Liabilities (other than taxes and any employee-related Liabilities that are specifically covered by the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement or the Employee Matters Agreement) that are expressly contemplated by this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (or the Schedules hereto or thereto) as Liabilities to be assumed by Cablevision or any member of the Cablevision Group, and all Liabilities of any member of the Cablevision Group under this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements;
     (ii) all Liabilities (other than taxes and any employee-related Liabilities that are specifically covered by the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement or the Employee Matters Agreement), if and to the extent relating to, arising out of or resulting from:
     (A) the ownership or operation of the Cablevision Business (including any discontinued business or any business which has been sold or transferred), as conducted at any time prior to, on or after the Distribution Date; or
     (B) the ownership or operation of any business conducted by Cablevision or any Cablevision Subsidiary at any time after the Distribution Date; and
 
     (iii) any Retained Claims Liabilities.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Cablevision Liabilities shall not include: (x) any Liabilities that are expressly contemplated by this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (or the Schedules hereto or thereto) as Liabilities to be retained or assumed by MSG or any member of the MSG Group; or (y) any agreements and obligations of any member of the MSG Group under this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements.
     shall mean "Cablevision" and the Cablevision logo design, "Optimum" and the related family of "Optim" formative marks (i.e., Optimum Voice, Optimum Online), "Interactive Optimum," "iO" and "iO" formative marks (i.e., iO TV), the iO "Madonna" logo design, the "Optimum Swirling O" logo design and related logos (i.e. OV and design, Online O design), "Power to Learn," "The Challenge" and the related family of marks, "Clearview," "Clearview Cinemas" and the Clearview logo design, "Lightpath," and logo designs, "Newsday," the "Newsday" family of marks and the Newsday masthead design, "Explore LI," "Get Local LI", "Greenstreet LI" and logo designs, "AM New York" and logo design, "News 12" and the "News 12" family of marks and logo design, as well as marks and logos associated with News 12 programming, Star Community Publishing Group's family of marks and logos, "RASCO," "Cablevision Advertising Sales," "Cablevision Advanced Platforms," "Rainbow," "Rainbow Media," "AMC," "WE TV," "IFC," "Wedding Central," "Independent Film Channel," "L-VIS," "C-TRAK," and any other names or logos and any other trademark or intellectual property of Cablevision or its Affiliates, other than MSG Marks.
"Cablevision Marks"
     shall mean all of the Subsidiaries of Cablevision other than MSG and the MSG Subsidiaries.
"Cablevision Subsidiaries"
     shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
"Commission"
     shall mean the Contribution Agreement by and between Cablevision and MSG, which has been or shall be entered into prior to or on the Distribution Date.
"Contribution Agreement"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement.
"Corporate Business Purposes"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
"CSC"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
"CSC Distribution"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
"Distribution"
     shall mean such date as may be determined by the Board of Directors of Cablevision or a committee of such Board of Directors, as the date as of which the Distribution shall be effected.
"Distribution Date"
     shall mean such date as may be determined by the Board of Directors of Cablevision or a committee of such Board of Directors, as the record date for the Distribution.
"Distribution Record Date"
 
     shall mean 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on the Distribution Date.
"Effective Time"
     shall mean the Employee Matters Agreement by and between Cablevision and MSG, which agreement shall be entered into prior to or on the Distribution Date.
"Employee Matters Agreement"
     shall mean any and all federal, state, local and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, principles of common law, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or other governmental restrictions (including without limitation the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9601, .), whether now or hereafter in existence, relating to the environment, natural resources, human health or safety, endangered or threatened species of fish, wildlife and plants, or to emissions, discharges or releases of pollutants, contaminants, petroleum or petroleum products, chemicals or industrial, toxic or hazardous substances or wastes into the environment (including without limitation indoor or outdoor air, surface water, groundwater and surface or subsurface soils), or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of pollutants, contaminants, petroleum or petroleum products, chemicals or industrial, toxic or hazardous substances or wastes or the investigation, cleanup or other remediation thereof.
"Environmental Laws"
et
seq
     shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, together with the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder.
"Exchange Act"
     shall mean any federal, state, local, foreign or international court, government, department, commission, board, bureau, agency, official, NASDAQ or other regulatory, administrative or governmental authority.
"Governmental Authority"
     shall mean the Cablevision Group or the MSG Group.
"Group"
     shall mean any and all Liabilities, costs or expenses (including reasonable out-of-pocket attorneys' fees and any and all out-of-pocket expenses) reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing for or defending against any Actions or potential Actions or in settling any Action or potential Action or in satisfying any judgment, fine or penalty rendered in or resulting from any Action.
"Indemnifiable Losses"
     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(a) of this Agreement.
"Indemnifying Party"
     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(a) of this Agreement.
"Indemnitee"
     shall mean the Information Statement filed with the Commission as part of the Registration Statement and mailed to the holders of shares of Cablevision Common Stock in connection with the Distribution, including any amendments or supplements thereto.
"Information Statement"
 
     shall mean all laws, statutes and ordinances and all regulations, rules and other pronouncements of Governmental Authorities having the effect of law of the United States, any foreign country, or any domestic or foreign state, province, commonwealth, city, country, municipality, territory, protectorate, possession or similar instrumentality, or any Governmental Authority thereof.
"Law"
     shall mean any and all debts, liabilities, obligations, responsibilities, Losses, damages (whether compensatory, punitive or treble), fines, penalties and sanctions, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, foreseen or unforeseen, joint, several or individual, asserted or unasserted, accrued or unaccrued, known or unknown, whenever arising, including without limitation those arising under or in connection with any Law (including any Environmental Law), Action, threatened Action, order or consent decree of any Governmental Authority or any award of any arbitration tribunal, and those arising under any contract, guarantee, commitment or undertaking, whether sought to be imposed by a Governmental Authority, private party, or party to this Agreement, whether based in contract, tort, implied or express warranty, strict liability, criminal or civil statute, or otherwise, and including any costs, expenses, interest, attorneys' fees, disbursement and expense of counsel, expert and consulting fees and costs related thereto or to the investigation or defense thereof.
"Liabilities"
     shall mean all losses, damages, claims, demands, judgments or settlements of any nature or kind, known or unknown, fixed, accrued, absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, including all reasonable costs and expenses (legal, accounting or otherwise as such costs are incurred) relating thereto, suffered by an Indemnitee.
"Losses"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
"MSG"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, the business of Fuse shall be deemed to be part of the MSG Business only from and after Cablevision's contribution of that business to MSG on ___, 2008 and part of the Cablevision Business only prior thereto.
"MSG Business"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
"MSG Class A Common Shares"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
"MSG Class B Common Shares"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
"MSG Common Stock"
     means MSG and each Person that is a Subsidiary of MSG immediately after the Distribution Date.
"MSG Group"
     shall mean:
"MSG Indemnitees"
 
     (i) MSG and each Affiliate thereof after giving effect to the Distribution; and
     (ii) each of the respective Representatives of any of the entities described in the immediately preceding clause (i) and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of such Representatives.
     shall mean:
"MSG Liabilities"
     (i) any and all Liabilities (other than taxes and any employee-related Liabilities that are specifically covered by the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement or the Employee Matters Agreement) that are expressly contemplated by this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (or the Schedules hereto or thereto) as Liabilities to be assumed by MSG or any member of the MSG Group, and all Liabilities of any member of the MSG Group under this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements; and
     (ii) all Liabilities (other than taxes and any employee-related Liabilities that are specifically covered by the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement or the Employee Matters Agreement), if and to the extent relating to, arising out of or resulting from:
     (A) the ownership or operation of the MSG Business (including any discontinued business or any business which has been sold or transferred), as conducted at any time prior to, on or after the Distribution Date; or
     (B) the ownership or operation of any business conducted by MSG or any MSG Subsidiary at any time after the Distribution Date.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, the MSG Liabilities shall not include: (x) any Liabilities that are expressly contemplated by this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (or the Schedules hereto or thereto) as Liabilities to be retained or assumed by Cablevision or any member of the Cablevision Group; (y) any agreements and obligations of any member of the Cablevision Group under this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements and (z) any Retained Claims Liabilities.
     shall include "Madison Square Garden," "The Garden," "The World's Most Famous Arena," "MSG," "MSG Network" "MSG Plus," "Radio City Music Hall," "Radio City," "Radio City Rockettes," "Rockettes," "Radio City Christmas Spectacular," "Christmas Spectacular," "The Chicago Theatre," "Beacon Theatre," "Fuse," "New York Knickerbockers," "New York Knicks," "New York Rangers," "Hartford Wolf Pack," all trademarks and logos comprised of or derivative of any of the foregoing, and any other names, logos, trademarks or intellectual property of MSG or its Affiliates. "" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
"MSG Marks"
MSG Share
     shall mean all of the Subsidiaries listed on Schedule A.
"MSG Subsidiaries"
     shall mean The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC.
"NASDAQ"
     shall mean the Agreement and Undertaking entered into by MSG in connection with the approval by the National Basketball Association of the transactions contemplated hereby.
"NBA Agreement and Undertaking"
     shall mean the Consent Agreement, among MSG, the National Hockey League and the other parties named therein, entered into in connection with the approval by the National Hockey League of the transactions contemplated hereby.
"NHL Consent Agreement"
     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(a).
"Outside Notice Date"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
"Parties"
 
     shall mean any natural person, corporation, business trust, limited liability company, joint venture, association, company, partnership or government, or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
"Person"
     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a) of this Agreement.
"Records"
     shall mean the two Registration Rights Agreements by and among MSG and various holders of Class B Common Stock named therein, each of which agreements shall be entered into prior to or on the Distribution Date.
"Registration Rights Agreements"
     shall mean the registration statement on Form 10 filed with the Commission to effect the registration of the MSG Class A Common Shares pursuant to the Exchange Act.
"Registration Statement"
     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.13.
"Releasee"
     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.13.
"Releasor"
     shall mean, with respect to any Person, any of such Person's directors, officers, employees, agents, consultants, advisors, accountants, attorneys and representatives.
"Representative"
     shall mean the Liabilities, if any, described in Schedule B.
"Retained Claims Liabilities"
     shall mean the Sponsorship Agreement by and between Cablevision and MSG, which agreement shall be entered into prior to or on the Distribution Date.
"Sponsorship Agreement"
     shall mean the subleases and leases, if any, by and between members of the Cablevision Group and members of the MSG Group, which subleases and leases shall be entered into prior to the Distribution Date in such form as is agreed to by Cablevision and MSG.
"Subleases"
     shall mean with respect to any specified Person, any corporation or other legal entity of which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries controls or owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the stock or other equity interests entitled to vote on the election of members to the board of directors or similar governing body or, in the case of a Person with no governing body, more than 50% of the equity interests.
"Subsidiary"
     shall have the meaning set forth in the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement.
"Tax"
     shall mean the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement by and between Cablevision and MSG, which agreement shall be entered into prior to or on the Distribution Date.
"Tax Disaffiliation Agreement"
 
     shall mean any Person who is not a Party to this Agreement.
"Third-Party"
     shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(a) of this Agreement.
"Third-Party Claim"
     shall mean the direct and indirect transfers of assets from Cablevision to MSG which resulted in MSG owning, directly or indirectly, the MSG Business.
"Transfers"
     shall mean the Transition Services Agreement by and between Cablevision and MSG, which agreement shall be entered into prior to or on the Distribution Date.
"Transition Services Agreement"
          References in this Agreement to any gender include references to all genders, and references to the singular include references to the plural and vice versa. The words and when used in this Agreement shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "." Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Agreement to Articles, Sections and Schedules shall be deemed references to Articles and Sections of, and Schedules to, this Agreement. Unless the context otherwise requires, the words , and and words of similar meaning when used in this Agreement refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular Article, Section or provision of this Agreement. Neither this Agreement nor any Ancillary Agreement shall be construed against either Party as the principal draftsperson hereof or thereof.
Section 1.2 Reference; Interpretation.
"include,"
"includes"
"including"
without limitation
"hereof"
"hereby"
"herein"
          (a) On or prior to the Distribution Date, Cablevision shall deliver to Cablevision's stock transfer agent (the ) a single stock certificate representing all of the issued and outstanding MSG Class A Common Shares and a single stock certificate representing all of the issued and outstanding MSG Class B Common Shares, in each case, endorsed by Cablevision in blank, for the benefit of the holders of Cablevision Common Stock, and Cablevision shall instruct the Agent to distribute, on or as soon as practicable following the Distribution Date, the MSG Class A Common Shares to holders of record of shares of Cablevision Class A Stock on the Distribution Record Date and the MSG Class B Common Shares to holders of record of shares of Cablevision Class B stock on the Distribution Date, all as further contemplated by the Information Statement and hereby. MSG shall provide any share certificates that the Agent shall require in order to effect the Distribution. The Distribution shall be effective at 11:59 P.M., New York City time, on the Distribution Date.
Section 2.1 Distribution.
"Agent"
          (b) The MSG Shares issued in the Distribution are intended to be distributed only pursuant to a book entry system. Cablevision shall instruct the Agent to deliver the MSG Shares previously delivered to the Agent to a depositary and to mail to each holder of record of Cablevision Common Stock on the Distribution Record Date, a statement of the MSG Shares credited to such holder's account. If following the Distribution a holder of MSG Common Stock
 
requests physical certificates instead of participating in the book entry system, the Agent shall issue certificates for such shares. In lieu of fractional shares, cash shall be given to holders otherwise entitled to such fractional shares of Common Stock on the Distribution Date. As soon as practicable following the Distribution Date, the Agent shall (i) aggregate all fractional MSG Class A Common Shares into whole MSG Class A Common Shares and (ii) aggregate all fractional MSG Class B Common Shares into whole MSG Class B Common Shares, and convert the whole MSG Class B Common Shares into whole MSG Class A Common Shares, and (iii) sell the whole MSG Class A Common Shares in the open market at then prevailing prices and shall distribute to each such holder such holder's ratable share of the proceeds of such sale, net of brokerage fees incurred in such sales.
          Cablevision shall have the sole and absolute discretion to determine whether to proceed with all or part of the Distribution and all terms of the Distribution, including the form, structure and terms of any transaction(s) and/or offering(s) to effect the Distribution and the timing of and conditions to the consummation of the Distribution. MSG shall cooperate with Cablevision in all respects to accomplish the Distribution and shall, at Cablevision's direction, promptly take any and all actions necessary or desirable to effect the Distribution. Cablevision shall select any investment banker(s) and manager(s) in connection with the Distribution, as well as any financial printer, solicitation and/or exchange agent and outside counsel for Cablevision, which shall include Sullivan & Cromwell LLP. MSG acknowledges that it has been afforded the opportunity to seek the advice and assistance of its own separate counsel in connection with the negotiation and preparation of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements.
Section 2.2 Cablevision Determination.
          On or prior to the Distribution Date, MSG and Cablevision shall have taken all necessary actions to provide for the adoption of the form of Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws in substantially the form filed by MSG with the Commission as exhibits to the Registration Statement.
Section 2.3 Charter; Bylaws.
          On or prior to the Distribution Date, Cablevision and MSG shall have taken all necessary action to cause the Board of Directors of MSG to consist of the individuals identified in the Information Statement as directors of MSG as of the Effective Time.
Section 2.4 Directors.
          On or prior to the Distribution Date, MSG shall take all actions necessary and desirable so that as of the Distribution Date the officers of MSG will be as set forth in the Information Statement.
Section 2.5 Election of Officers.
          On or prior to the Distribution Date or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, Cablevision shall use its commercially reasonable best efforts to transfer or cause to be transferred any transferable licenses, permits and authorizations issued by any Governmental Authority which relate solely to the MSG Business but which are held in the name of any member of the Cablevision Group, or in the name of any employee, officer, director, stockholder or agent of any such member, or otherwise, on behalf of a member of the MSG Group to the appropriate member of the MSG Group.
Section 2.6 Certain Licenses and Permits.
 
          Prior to the Distribution Date, Cablevision and MSG shall take all such action as may be necessary or appropriate under the securities or blue sky laws of states or other political subdivisions of the United States in order to effect the Distribution.
Section 2.7 State Securities Laws.
          (a) Prior to the Distribution Date, Cablevision and MSG shall prepare and file with NASDAQ a listing application and related documents and shall take all such other actions with respect thereto as shall be necessary or desirable in order to cause NASDAQ to list on or prior to the Distribution Date, subject to official notice of issuance, the MSG Class A Common Shares.
Section 2.8 Listing Application; Notice to NASDAQ.
          (b) Prior to the Distribution, Cablevision shall, to the extent possible, give NASDAQ not less than ten days' advance notice of the Distribution Record Date in compliance with Rule 10b-17 under the Exchange Act.
          
Section 2.9 Removal of Certain Guarantees; Releases from Liabilities.
          (a) Except as otherwise specified in any Ancillary Agreement, (i) MSG shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to have, on or prior to the Distribution Date, or as soon as practicable thereafter, any member of the Cablevision Group removed as guarantor of or obligor for any Liability of MSG, including in respect of those guarantees, if any, set forth on Schedule C-1 of this Agreement, and (ii) Cablevision shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to have, on or prior to the Distribution Date, or as soon as practicable thereafter, any member of the MSG Group removed as guarantor of or obligor for any Liability of Cablevision, including in respect of those guarantees, if any, set forth on Schedule C-2 of this Agreement.
          (b) If MSG or Cablevision, as the case may be, is unable to obtain, or to cause to be obtained, any such required removal as set forth in Section 2.9(a), the applicable guarantor or obligor shall continue to be bound as such and, unless not permitted by Law or the terms thereof, the relevant beneficiary shall or shall cause one of its Subsidiaries, as agent or subcontractor for such guarantor or obligor to pay, perform and discharge fully all the obligations or other Liabilities of such guarantor or obligor thereunder from and after the date hereof.
          (c) If (i) MSG is unable to obtain, or to cause to be obtained, any such required removal as set forth in Section 2.9(a), or (ii) MSG Liabilities arise from and after the Effective Time but before a member of the Cablevision Group which is a guarantor or obligor with reference to any such MSG Liability is removed pursuant to Section 2.9(a), then such guarantor or obligor shall be indemnified by MSG for all Liabilities incurred by it in its capacity as guarantor or obligor. Without limiting the foregoing, MSG shall, or shall cause a member of the MSG Group to, reimburse any such member of the Cablevision Group which is a guarantor or obligor as soon as practicable (but in no event later than 30 days) following delivery by Cablevision to MSG of notice of a payment made pursuant to this Section 2.9 in respect of MSG Liabilities.
          (d) If (i) Cablevision is unable to obtain, or to cause to be obtained, any such required removal as set forth in Section 2.9(a), or (ii) Cablevision Liabilities arise from and after the Effective Time but before a member of the MSG Group which is a guarantor or obligor with reference to any such Cablevision Liability is removed pursuant to Section 2.9(a), then such guarantor or obligor shall be indemnified by Cablevision for all Liabilities incurred by it in its capacity as guarantor or obligor. Without limiting the foregoing, Cablevision, shall, or shall cause a member of the Cablevision Group to, reimburse any such member of the MSG Group which is a guarantor or obligor as soon as practicable (but in no event later than 30 days) following delivery by MSG to Cablevision of notice of a payment made pursuant to this Section 2.9 in respect of Cablevision Liabilities.
          (e) In the event that at any time before or after the Distribution Date Cablevision identifies any letters of credit, interest rate or foreign exchange contracts, surety bonds or other contracts (excluding guarantees) that relate primarily to the MSG Business but for which a member of the Cablevision Group has contingent, secondary, joint, several or other Liability of any nature whatsoever, MSG shall, at its expense, take such actions and enter into
 
such agreements and arrangements as Cablevision may reasonably request to effect the release or substitution of Cablevision (or a member of the Cablevision Group).
          (f) In the event that at any time before or after the Distribution Date MSG identifies any letters of credit, interest rate or foreign exchange contracts, surety bonds or other contracts (excluding guarantees) that relate primarily to the Cablevision Business but for which a member of the MSG Group has contingent, secondary, joint, several or other Liability of any nature whatsoever, Cablevision shall, at its expense, take such actions and enter into such agreements and arrangements as MSG may reasonably request to effect the release or substitution of MSG (or a member of the MSG Group).
          (g) The Parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain, or cause to be obtained, any consent, substitution or amendment required to novate or assign all MSG Liabilities of any nature whatsoever transferred under this Agreement or an Ancillary Agreement, or to obtain in writing the unconditional release of the assignor so that in each such case, Cablevision (or an appropriate member of the Cablevision Group) shall be solely responsible for the Cablevision Liabilities and MSG (or an appropriate member of the MSG Group) shall be solely responsible for the MSG Liabilities; , however, that no Party shall be obligated to pay any consideration therefore (except for filing fees or other similar charges) to any Third Party from whom such consent, substitution, amendment or release is requested. Whether or not any such consent, substitution, amendment or release is obtained, nothing in this Section 2.9 shall in any way limit the obligations of the parties under Article III.
provided
          Except as otherwise specifically provided in any Ancillary Agreement or in any other agreement to which a member of the Cablevision Group and a member of the MSG Group are parties:
Section 2.10 Corporate Names; Trademarks.
          (a) as soon as reasonably practicable after the Distribution Date but in any event within six months thereafter, MSG will, at its own expense, remove (or, if necessary, on an interim basis, cover up) any and all exterior signs and other identifiers located on any of its property or premises or on the property or premises used by it or its Subsidiaries which refer or pertain to the Cablevision Marks or which include the Cablevision Marks;
          (b) as soon as is reasonably practicable after the Distribution Date but in any event within six months thereafter, MSG will, and will cause the MSG Subsidiaries to, remove, at their own expense, from all letterhead, envelopes, invoices and other communications media of any kind, the Cablevision Marks (except that MSG shall not be required to take any such action with respect to materials in the possession of customers);
          (c) as soon as reasonably practicable after the Distribution Date but in any event within six months thereafter, Cablevision will, at its own expense, remove (or, if necessary, on an interim basis, cover up) any and all exterior signs and other identifiers located on any of its property or premises or on the property or premises used by it or its Subsidiaries which refer or pertain to the MSG Marks or which include the MSG Marks; and
          (d) as soon as is reasonably practicable after the Distribution Date but in any event within six months thereafter, Cablevision will, and will cause the Cablevision Subsidiaries to, remove, at their own expense, from all letterhead, envelopes, invoices and other communications media of any kind, the MSG Marks (except that Cablevision shall not be required to take any such action with respect to materials in the possession of customers).
          Prior to the Distribution Date, each of Cablevision and MSG shall enter into, and/or (where applicable) shall cause members of their respective Groups to enter into, the Ancillary Agreements and any other agreements in respect of
Section 2.11 Ancillary Agreements.
 
the Distribution reasonably necessary or appropriate in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
          MSG, on behalf of itself and all members of the MSG Group, acknowledges, understands and agrees that, except as expressly set forth herein or in any Ancillary Agreement, (a) no member of the Cablevision Group or any other Person has, in this Agreement or in any other agreement or document, or otherwise made any representation or warranty of any kind whatsoever, express or implied, to MSG or any member of the MSG Group or to any director, officer, employee or agent thereof in any way with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the business, assets, condition or prospects (financial or otherwise) of, or any other matter involving, the assets, Liabilities or businesses of Cablevision, any member of the Cablevision Group, MSG or any member of the MSG Group, any assets that are transferred, any MSG Liabilities or the MSG Business, (b) MSG and each member of the MSG Group has taken all of the assets that are transferred, the MSG Business and MSG Liabilities on an "as is, where is" basis, and all implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a specific purpose or otherwise have been and are hereby expressly disclaimed, and (c) none of Cablevision or any members of the Cablevision Group or any other person has made or makes any representation or warranty with respect to the Distribution or the entering into of this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements or the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. Except as expressly set forth herein or in any other Ancillary Agreement, MSG and each member of the MSG Group shall bear the economic and legal risk that the MSG Assets shall prove to be insufficient or that the title of any member of the MSG Group to any MSG Assets shall be other than good and marketable and free from encumbrances. The provisions of the Contribution Agreement and any related assignment agreement or other related documents are expressly subject to this Section 2.12 and to Section 2.13 hereof.
Section 2.12 Acknowledgment by MSG.
          MSG agrees that for itself and for its predecessors, Subsidiaries (including for this purpose any Subsidiary of MSG that is also a Subsidiary of Cablevision), departments, divisions and sections and for their successors, Affiliates (including for this purpose any Subsidiary of MSG that is also a Subsidiary of Cablevision), heirs, assigns, executors, administrators, partners, officers, directors, shareholders, employees, attorneys and agents (individually, each a and collectively, the ), in consideration of the making by Cablevision of the Transfers, release, waive and forever discharge Cablevision and its predecessors, Subsidiaries, departments, divisions, sections, successors, Affiliates, heirs, assigns, executors, administrators, partners, officers, directors, shareholders, employees, attorneys and agents (individually, each a and collectively, the ) from, and shall, in addition to other obligations under Article III, indemnify and hold harmless all such persons against and from, all Liabilities of every name and nature, in law or equity, known or unknown, which against any Releasee, a Releasor ever had, now has or hereafter can, shall or may have by reason of any matter, act, omission, conduct, transaction or occurrence from the beginning of the world up to and including the Distribution Date for, upon, by reason of, asserted in or arising out of, or related to:
Section 2.13 Release.
"Releasor"
"Releasors"
"Releasee"
"Releasees"
 
The term "Releasee" is expressly intended to include any person who served as an incorporator, director, officer, employee, agent or attorney of MSG on or prior to the Distribution Date at the request of Cablevision. Each Releasor expressly covenants and agrees never to institute, or participate (including as a member of a class) in, any Action against any Releasee, in any court or forum, directly or indirectly, regarding or relating to the matters released through this Release, and further covenants and agrees that this Release is a bar to any such Action. For the avoidance of doubt, the purpose of this Section 2.4. is to make clear the intent of the Parties that, following the Distribution Date, the only Liability that any Releasee shall have to any Releasor shall be its obligation to perform its obligations under and pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements and any other agreements to which the Releasee and the Releasor are parties and there shall be no liability in respect of any event, occurrence, action or inaction on or prior to the Distribution Date. This Release shall not extend to any liabilities owed by a Releasee to a Releasor in the Releasor's capacity as a director, officer, employee or other Representative or shareholder of Releasee nor shall it release any Liabilities or obligations under this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreements or any other agreements to which the Releasee and the Releasor are parties.
          Except as otherwise expressly provided herein or in any of the Ancillary Agreements:
Section 2.14 Discharge of Liabilities.
          (a) From and after the Effective Time, (i) Cablevision shall, and shall cause each member of the Cablevision Group to, assume, pay, perform and discharge all Cablevision Liabilities in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice, and (ii) MSG shall, and shall cause each member of the MSG Group, to assume, pay, perform and discharge all MSG Liabilities in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice. The agreements in this Section 2.14 are made by each Party for the sole and exclusive benefit of the other Party. To the extent reasonably requested to do so by the other Party, each Party agrees to execute and deliver such documents, in a form reasonably satisfactory to such Party, as may be reasonably necessary to evidence the assumption of any Liabilities hereunder.
          (b) All intercompany trade, accounts receivable and accounts payable between any member of one Group and any member of another Group in existence at the Effective Time shall be paid and performed in accordance with their terms.
          If at any time after the Effective Time any further action is reasonably necessary or desirable to carry out the purposes of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, the proper officers of each Party shall take all such necessary action. Without limiting the foregoing, each Party shall use its commercially reasonable efforts promptly to obtain all consents and approvals, to enter into all agreements and to make all filings
Section 2.15 Further Assurances.
 
and applications that may be required for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, including all applicable filings with, and approvals from, any Governmental Authority.
          Except as otherwise specifically set forth in any provision of this Agreement from and after the Distribution Date, Cablevision shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the MSG Indemnitees from and against any and all Indemnifiable Losses of the MSG Indemnitees to the extent arising out of, by reason of or otherwise in connection with (i) the Cablevision Liabilities or alleged Cablevision Liabilities, including any breach by any member of the Cablevision Group of any provision of this Section 3.1; (ii) any breach by any member of the Cablevision Group of this Agreement; and (iii) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact in the Registration Statement or the Information Statement or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent relating to the Cablevision Group; and (iv) any indemnification obligation that MSG may have to the National Basketball Association pursuant to the NBA Agreement and Undertaking or to the National Hockey League pursuant to the NHL Consent Agreement, in each case as a result of any act or omission by any member of the Cablevision Group. This Agreement is not intended to address, and should not be interpreted to address, the matters specifically and expressly covered by the Ancillary Agreements unless such Ancillary Agreement expressly provides that this Agreement applies to any matter in such Ancillary Agreement.
Section 3.1 Indemnification by Cablevision.
          Except as otherwise specifically set forth in any provision of this Agreement, from and after the Distribution Date, MSG shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Cablevision Indemnitees from and against any and all Indemnifiable Losses of the Cablevision Indemnitees to the extent arising out of, by reason of or otherwise in connection with (i) the MSG Liabilities or alleged MSG Liabilities; (ii) any breach by any member of the MSG Group of this Agreement; and (iii) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact in the Registration Statement or the Information Statement or in any registration statement or prospectus filed by MSG in connection with the Distribution, or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; , however that this clause (iii) shall not apply to any Liability that is covered by Section 3.1(a)(iii). This Agreement is not intended to address, and should not be interpreted to address, the matters specifically and expressly covered by the Ancillary Agreements.
Section 3.2 Indemnification by MSG.
provided
          
Section 3.3 Procedures for Indemnification.
          (a) If a claim or demand is made by a Third Party against an MSG Indemnitee or a Cablevision Indemnitee (each, an ) (a ) as to which such Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement, such Indemnitee shall notify the Party which is or may be required pursuant to Section 3.1 or Section 3.2 hereof to make such indemnification (the ) in writing, and in reasonable detail, of the Third-Party Claim promptly (and in any event by the date (the ) that is the 15th Business Day) after receipt by such Indemnitee of written notice of the Third-Party Claim;
"Indemnitee"
"Third-Party Claim"
"Indemnifying Party"
"Outside Notice Date"
 
, however, that failure to give such notification shall not affect the indemnification provided hereunder except to the extent the Indemnifying Party shall have been actually prejudiced as a result of such failure (except that the Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for any expenses incurred during the period beginning immediately after the Outside Notice Date and ending on the date the Indemnitee gives the required notice). Thereafter, the Indemnitee shall deliver to the Indemnifying Party, promptly (and in any event within 10 Business Days) after the Indemnitee's receipt thereof, copies of all notices and documents (including court papers) received by the Indemnitee relating to the Third Party Claim. Notice under this Section 3.3 shall be provided in accordance with Section 5.6. For the avoidance of doubt, knowledge of a Third Party Claim by a Person who is an officer or director of both Cablevision and MSG shall not constitute notice for purposes of this Section 3.3.
provided
          If a Third Party Claim is made against an Indemnitee, the Indemnifying Party shall be entitled to participate in the defense thereof and, if it so chooses and acknowledges in writing its obligation to indemnify the Indemnitee therefor, to assume the defense thereof with counsel selected by the Indemnifying Party; , however, that such counsel is not reasonably objected to by the Indemnitee. Should the Indemnifying Party so elect to assume the defense of a Third Party Claim, the Indemnifying Party shall, within 30 days (or sooner if the nature of the Third Party Claim so requires), notify the Indemnitee of its intent to do so, and the Indemnifying Party shall thereafter not be liable to the Indemnitee for legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with the defense thereof; , however, that such Indemnitee shall have the right to employ counsel to represent such Indemnitee if, in such Indemnitee's reasonable judgment, a conflict of interest between such Indemnitee and such Indemnifying Party exists in respect of such claim which would make representation of both such parties by one counsel inappropriate, and in such event the fees and expenses of such separate counsel shall be paid by such Indemnifying Party. If the Indemnifying Party assumes such defense, the Indemnitee shall have the right to participate in the defense thereof and to employ counsel, subject to the proviso of the preceding sentence, at its own expense, separate from the counsel employed by the Indemnifying Party, it being understood that the Indemnifying Party shall control such defense. The Indemnifying Party shall be liable for the fees and expenses of counsel employed by the Indemnitee for any period during which the Indemnifying Party has failed to assume the defense thereof (other than during the period prior to the time the Indemnitee shall have given notice of the Third Party Claim as provided above). If the Indemnifying Party so elects to assume the defense of any Third Party Claim, all of the Indemnitees shall cooperate with the Indemnifying Party in the defense or prosecution thereof, including by providing or causing to be provided Records and witnesses as soon as reasonably practicable after receiving any request therefor from or on behalf of the Indemnifying Party.
provided
provided
          If the Indemnifying Party acknowledges in writing responsibility under this Section 3.3 for a Third Party Claim, then in no event will the Indemnitee admit any liability with respect to, or settle, compromise or discharge, any Third Party Claim without the Indemnifying Party's prior written consent; , however, that the Indemnitee shall have the right to settle, compromise or discharge such Third Party Claim without the consent of the Indemnifying Party if the Indemnitee releases the Indemnifying Party from its indemnification obligation hereunder with respect to such Third Party Claim and such settlement, compromise or discharge
provided
 
would not otherwise adversely affect the Indemnifying Party. If the Indemnifying Party acknowledges in writing liability for a Third Party Claim, the Indemnitee will agree to any settlement, compromise or discharge of a Third Party Claim that the Indemnifying Party may recommend and that by its terms obligates the Indemnifying Party to pay the full amount of the liability in connection with such Third Party Claim and releases the Indemnitee completely in connection with such Third Party Claim and that would not otherwise adversely affect the Indemnitee. If an Indemnifying Party elects not to assume the defense of a Third Party Claim, or fails to notify an Indemnitee of its election to do so as provided herein, such Indemnitee may compromise, settle or defend such Third Party Claim.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Indemnifying Party shall not be entitled to assume the defense of any Third Party Claim (and shall be liable for the fees and expenses of counsel incurred by the Indemnitee in defending such Third Party Claim) if the Third Party Claim seeks an order, injunction or other equitable relief or relief for other than money damages against the Indemnitee which the Indemnitee reasonably determines, after conferring with its counsel, cannot be separated from any related claim for money damages. If such equitable relief or other relief portion of the Third Party Claim can be so separated from that for money damages, the Indemnifying Party shall be entitled to assume the defense of the portion relating to money damages.
          (b) In the event of payment by an Indemnifying Party to any Indemnitee in connection with any Third Party Claim, such Indemnifying Party shall be subrogated to and shall stand in the place of such Indemnitee as to any events or circumstances in respect of which such Indemnitee may have any right or claim relating to such Third-Party Claim against any claimant or plaintiff asserting such Third Party Claim. Such Indemnitee shall cooperate with such Indemnifying Party in a reasonable manner, and at the cost and expense of such Indemnifying Party, in prosecuting any subrogated right or claim.
          (c) MSG shall, and shall cause the other MSG Indemnitees to, and Cablevision shall, and shall cause the other Cablevision Indemnitees to, cooperate as may reasonably be required in connection with the investigation, defense and settlement of any Third Party Claim. In furtherance of this obligation, the Parties agree that if an Indemnifying Party chooses to defend or to compromise or settle any Third-Party Claim, Cablevision or MSG, as the case may be, shall use its reasonable best efforts to make available to the other Party, upon written request, the former and then current directors, officers, employees and agents of the members of its respective Group as witnesses and any Records or other documents within its control or which it otherwise has the ability to make available, to the extent that any such Person, Records or other documents may reasonably be required in connection with such defense, settlement or compromise. At the request of an Indemnifying Party, an Indemnitee shall enter into a reasonably acceptable joint defense agreement.
          (d) The remedies provided in this Article III shall be cumulative and shall not preclude assertion by any Indemnitee of any other rights or the seeking of any and all other remedies against any Indemnifying Party.
 
          (a) Indemnification required by this Article III shall be made by periodic payments of the amount thereof during the course of the investigation or defense, as and when bills are received or an Indemnifiable Loss is incurred. If the Indemnifying Party fails to make an indemnification payment required by this Article III within 30 days after receipt of a bill therefore or notice that an Indemnifiable Loss has been incurred, the Indemnifying Party shall also be required to pay interest on the amount of such indemnification payment, from the date of receipt of the bill or notice of the Indemnified Loss to but not including the date of payment, at the Applicable Rate.
Section 3.4 Indemnification Payments.
          (b) The amount of any claim by an Indemnitee under this Agreement (i) shall be reduced to reflect any actual tax savings or insurance proceeds received by any Indemnitee that result from the Indemnifiable Losses that gave rise to such indemnity and (ii) shall be increased by an amount equal to any Tax cost incurred by any Indemnitee that results from receipt of payments under this Article III.
          (c) For all Tax purposes and to the extent permitted by applicable Law, the parties hereto shall treat any payment made pursuant to this Article III as a capital contribution or a distribution, as the case may be, immediately prior to the Distribution.
          
Section 4.1 Provision of Corporate Records.
          (a) Except as specifically provided in Article III (in which event the provisions of such Article will govern), after the Distribution Date, upon the prior written request by MSG for specific and identified agreements, documents, books, records or files including accounting and financial records (collectively, ) which relate to MSG or the conduct of the MSG Business up to the Effective Time, or which MSG determines are necessary or advisable in order for MSG to prepare its financial statements and any reports or filings to be made with any Governmental Authority, Cablevision shall arrange, as soon as reasonably practicable following the receipt of such request, to provide appropriate copies of such Records (or the originals thereof if MSG has a reasonable need for such originals) in the possession or control of Cablevision or any of the Cablevision Subsidiaries, but only to the extent such items are not already in the possession or control of the requesting Party.
"Records"
          (b) Except as specifically provided in Article III (in which event the provisions of such Article will govern), after the Distribution Date, upon the prior written request by Cablevision for specific and identified Records which relate to Cablevision or the conduct of the Cablevision Business up to the Effective Time, or which Cablevision determines are necessary or advisable in order for Cablevision to prepare its financial statements and any reports or filings to be made with any Governmental Authority, MSG shall arrange, as soon as reasonably practicable following the receipt of such request, to provide appropriate copies of such Records (or the originals thereof if Cablevision has a reasonable need for such originals) in the possession or control of MSG or any of the MSG Subsidiaries, but only to the extent such items are not already in the possession or control of the requesting Party.
          Except as specifically provided in Article III (in which event the provisions of such Article will govern), from and after the
Section 4.2 Access to Information.
 
Distribution Date, each of Cablevision and MSG shall afford to the other and its authorized Representatives reasonable access during normal business hours, subject to appropriate restrictions for classified, privileged or confidential information, to the personnel, properties, and Records of such Party and its Subsidiaries insofar as such access is reasonably required by the other Party and relates to such other Party or the conduct of its business prior to the Effective Time.
          (a) At all times from and after the Distribution Date, each of Cablevision and MSG shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to make available to the other, upon reasonable written request, its and its Subsidiaries' former and then current Representatives as witnesses and any Records within its control or which it otherwise has the ability to make available, to the extent that such Persons or Records may reasonably be required in connection with the prosecution or defense of any Action in which the requesting Party may from time to time be involved. This provision shall not apply to any Action brought by one Party against another Party (as to which production of documents and witnesses shall be governed by applicable discovery rules).
Section 4.3 Witnesses; Documents and Cooperation in Actions.
          (b) Without limiting any provision of this Section 4.3, the Parties shall cooperate and consult, and shall cause each member of their respective Groups to cooperate and consult, to the extent reasonably necessary with respect to any Actions.
          (c) In connection with any matter contemplated by this Section 4.3, the Parties will enter into a mutually acceptable joint defense agreement so as to maintain to the extent practicable any applicable attorney-client privilege or work product immunity of any member of any Group.
          (a) Cablevision and the Cablevision Subsidiaries and MSG and the MSG Subsidiaries shall not use or permit the use of and shall keep, and shall cause its consultants and advisors to keep, confidential all information concerning the other Party in its possession, its custody or under its control to the extent such information, (w) relates to or was acquired during the period up to the Effective Time, (x) relates to any Ancillary Agreement, (y) is obtained in the course of performing services for the other Party pursuant to any Ancillary Agreement, or (z) is based upon or is derived from information described in the preceding clauses (w), (x) or (y), and each Party shall not (without the prior written consent of the other) otherwise release or disclose such information to any other Person, except such Party's auditors, attorneys, consultants and advisors, unless compelled to disclose such information by judicial or administrative process or unless such disclosure is required by Law and such Party has used commercially reasonable efforts to consult with the other affected Party or Parties prior to such disclosure. Each Party shall be deemed to have satisfied its obligation to hold confidential any information concerning or owned by the other Party or its Group if it exercises the same care as it takes to preserve confidentiality for its own similar information. The covenants in this Section 4.4 shall survive the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and shall continue indefinitely; , however, that the covenants in this Section 4.4 shall terminate with respect to any information not constituting a trade secret under applicable law on the third anniversary of the later of the Distribution Date or the date on which the Party subject to such
Section 4.4 Confidentiality.
provided
 
covenants with respect to such information receives it (but any such termination shall not terminate or otherwise limit any other covenant or restriction regarding the disclosure or use of such information under any Ancillary Agreement or other agreement, instrument or legal obligation). This Section 4.4 shall not apply to information (A) that has been in the public domain through no fault of such Party or (B) that has been later lawfully acquired from other sources by such Party, (C) the use or disclosure of which is permitted by this Agreement or any other Ancillary Agreement or any other agreement entered into pursuant hereto, (D) that is immaterial and its disclosure is required as part of the conduct of that Party's business and would not reasonably be expected to be detrimental to the interests of the other Party or (E) that the other Party has agreed in writing may be so used or disclosed.
          (b) If any Party or any member of its Group either determines that it is required to disclose pursuant to applicable Law, or receives any demand under lawful process or from any Governmental Authority to disclose or provide, information of the other Party (or any member of the other Party's Group) that is subject to the confidentiality provisions of Section 4.4(a) such Party shall notify the other Party prior to disclosing or providing such information and shall cooperate at the expense of the requesting Party in seeking any reasonable protective arrangements requested by such other Party. Subject to the foregoing, the Person that received such request may thereafter disclose or provide such information if and to the extent required by such Law or by lawful process or such Governmental Authority; however, that the Person shall only disclose such portion of the information as required to be disclosed or provided.
provided
,
          Except as may be otherwise provided in an Ancillary Agreement, the Parties recognize that legal and other professional services that have been and will be provided prior to the Distribution Date have been and will be rendered for the benefit of each of the members of the Cablevision Group, and the members of the MSG Group, and that each of the members of the Cablevision Group, and each of the members of the MSG Group should be deemed to be the client for the purposes of asserting all privileges which may be asserted under applicable Law. To allocate the interests of each Party in the information as to which any Party is entitled to assert a privilege, the Parties agree as follows:
Section 4.5 Privileged Matters.
          (a) Cablevision shall be entitled, in perpetuity, to control the assertion or waiver of all privileges in connection with privileged information which relates solely to the Cablevision Business (other than with respect to Liabilities as to which MSG is required to provide indemnification under Article III), whether or not the privileged information is in the possession of or under the control of Cablevision or MSG. Cablevision shall also be entitled, in perpetuity, to control the assertion or waiver of all privileges in connection with privileged information that relates solely to the subject matter of any Claims constituting Cablevision Liabilities (including Retained Claims Liabilities), or other Liabilities as to which it is required to provide indemnification under Article III, now pending or which may be asserted in the future, whether or not the privileged information is in the possession of or under the control of Cablevision or MSG.
 
          (b) MSG shall be entitled, in perpetuity, to control the assertion or waiver of all privileges in connection with privileged information which relates solely to the MSG Business (other than with respect to matters or claims that are Retained Claims Liabilities or other Liabilities as to which Cablevision is required to provide indemnification under Article III), whether or not the privileged information is in the possession of or under the control of Cablevision or MSG. MSG shall also be entitled, in perpetuity, to control the assertion or waiver of all privileges in connection with privileged information which relates solely to the subject matter of any Claims constituting MSG Liabilities, or other liabilities as to which it is required to provide indemnification under Article III, now pending or which may be asserted in the future, in any lawsuits or other proceedings initiated against or by MSG, whether or not the privileged information is in the possession of MSG or under the control of Cablevision or MSG.
          (c) The Parties agree that they shall have a shared privilege, with equal right to assert or waive, subject to the restrictions in this Section 4.5, with respect to all privileges not allocated pursuant to the terms of Sections 4.5(a) and (b).
          (d) No Party may waive any privilege which could be asserted under any applicable Law, and in which the other Party has a shared privileged, without the consent of the other Party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, except to the extent reasonably required in connection with any Third-Party Claims or as provided in subsection (e) below. Consent shall be in writing, or shall be deemed to be granted unless written objection is made within 20 days after notice upon the other Party requesting such consent.
          (e) In the event of any litigation or dispute between or among the Parties, any Party and a Subsidiary of the other Party, or a Subsidiary of one Party and a Subsidiary of the other Party, either such Party may waive a privilege in which the other Party has a shared privilege, without obtaining the consent of the other Party, , however, that such waiver of a shared privilege shall be effective only as to the use of information with respect to the litigation or dispute between the Parties and/or their Subsidiaries, and shall not operate as a waiver of the shared privilege with respect to any Third-Party Claims.
provided
          (f) If a dispute arises between or among the Parties or their respective Subsidiaries regarding whether a privilege should be waived to protect or advance the interest of any Party, each Party agrees that it shall negotiate in good faith, shall endeavor to minimize any prejudice to the rights of the other Party, and shall not unreasonably withhold consent to any request for a waiver by the other Party. Each Party hereto specifically agrees that it will not withhold consent to a waiver for any purpose except to protect its own legitimate interests.
          (g) Upon receipt by any Party or by any Subsidiary thereof of any subpoena, discovery or other request which arguably calls for the production or disclosure of information subject to a shared privilege or as to which another Party has the sole right hereunder to assert a privilege, or if any Party obtains knowledge that any of its or any of its Subsidiaries' current or former Representatives have received any subpoena, discovery or other request which arguably calls for the production or disclosure of such privileged information, such Party shall promptly notify the other Party of the existence of the request and shall provide the other Party a
 
reasonable opportunity to review the information and to assert any rights it or they may have under this Section 4.5 or otherwise to prevent the production or disclosure of such privileged information.
          (h) The transfer of all Records and other information pursuant to this Agreement is made in reliance on the agreement of Cablevision and MSG, as set forth in Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.5, to maintain the confidentiality of privileged information and to assert and maintain all applicable privileges. The access to information being granted pursuant to Sections 4.1, 4.2, and 4.3 hereof, the agreement to provide witnesses and individuals pursuant to Sections 4.2 and 4.3 hereof, the furnishing of notices and documents and other cooperative efforts contemplated by Section 4.3 hereof, and the transfer of privileged information between and among the Parties and their respective Subsidiaries, Affiliates and Representatives pursuant to this Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver of any privilege that has been or may be asserted under this Agreement or otherwise.
          Any information owned by one Party or any of its Subsidiaries that is provided to a requesting Party pursuant to Article III or this Article IV shall be deemed to remain the property of the providing Person. Unless specifically set forth herein, nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as granting or conferring rights of license or otherwise in any such information.
Section 4.6 Ownership of Information.
          A Party requesting Records, information or access to personnel, witnesses or properties, under Articles III or IV, agrees to reimburse the other Party and its Subsidiaries for the reasonable out-of-pocket costs, if any, incurred in seeking to satisfy the request of the requesting Party.
Section 4.7 Cost of Providing Records and Information.
          Except (a) as provided in the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement or (b) when a longer retention period is otherwise required by Law or agreed to in writing, the Cablevision Group and the MSG Group shall retain all Records relating to the Cablevision Business and the MSG Business as of the Effective Time for the periods of time provided in each Party's record retention policy (with respect to the documents of such party and without regard to the Distribution or its effects) as in effect on the Distribution Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in lieu of retaining any specific Records, Cablevision or MSG may offer in writing to deliver such Records to the other and, if such offer is not accepted within 90 days, the offered Records may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of at any time. If a recipient of such offer shall request in writing prior to the scheduled date for such destruction or disposal that any of Records proposed to be destroyed or disposed of be delivered to such requesting Party, the Party proposing the destruction or disposal shall promptly arrange for delivery of such of the Records as was requested (at the cost of the requesting Party).
Section 4.8 Retention of Records.
          The rights and obligations granted under this Article IV are subject to any specific limitations, qualifications or additional provisions on the sharing, exchange or confidential treatment of information set forth in any Ancillary Agreement or in any other agreement to which a member of the Cablevision Group and a member of the MSG Group is a party.
Section 4.9 Other Agreements Providing for Exchange of Information.
 
           Without representation or warranty, MSG and Cablevision shall continue to be permitted to share, on a confidential basis, "best practices" information and materials (such as policies, workflow templates and standard form contracts).
Section 4.10 Policies and Best Practices.
          Nothing in this Article IV shall be deemed to require any Person to provide any information if doing so would, in the opinion of counsel to such Person, be inconsistent with any legal or constitutional obligation applicable to such Person.
Section 4.11 Compliance with Laws and Agreements.
          This Agreement, including the Schedules, and the Ancillary Agreements shall constitute the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all previous negotiations, commitments and writings with respect to such subject matter. In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and any Schedule, the Schedule shall prevail.
Section 5.1 Complete Agreement; Construction.
          Except as may be expressly stated herein, this Agreement is not intended to address, and should not be interpreted to address, the matters specifically and expressly covered by the Ancillary Agreements.
Section 5.2 Ancillary Agreements.
          This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become
Section 5.3 Counterparts.
 
effective when one or more such counterparts have been signed by each of the Parties and delivered to the other Party.
          Except as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement, all covenants and agreements of the Parties contained in this Agreement shall survive the Distribution Date.
Section 5.4 Survival of Agreements.
          Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, all costs and expenses incurred on or prior to the Distribution Date (whether or not paid on or prior to the Distribution Date) in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, printing and implementation of this Agreement and any Ancillary Agreement, the Information Statement and the Registration Statement, and the Distribution and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, shall be charged to and paid by Cablevision. Such expenses shall be deemed to be Cablevision Liabilities. Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, each Party shall bear its own costs and expenses incurred after the Distribution Date. Any amount or expense to be paid or reimbursed by any Party to any other Party shall be so paid or reimbursed promptly after the existence and amount of such obligation is determined and written demand therefor is made.
Section 5.5 Distribution Expenses.
          All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing, shall reference this Agreement and shall be hand delivered or mailed by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) to the Parties at the following addresses (or at such other addresses for a Party as shall be specified by like notice) and will be deemed given on the date on which such notice is received:
Section 5.6 Notices.
          To Cablevision:
Cablevision Systems Corporation 1111 Stewart Avenue Bethpage, New York 11714 Attention: General Counsel
          To MSG:
Madison Square Garden, Inc. Two Penn Plaza New York, New York 10001 Attention: General Counsel
          The failure of any Party to require strict performance by any other Party of any provision in this Agreement will not waive or diminish that Party's right to demand strict performance thereafter of that or any other provision hereof.
Section 5.7 Waivers.
 
          Subject to the terms of Sections 5.11 and 5.13 hereof, this Agreement may not be modified or amended except by an agreement in writing signed by each of the Parties.
Section 5.8 Amendments.
          This Agreement shall not be assignable, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by any Party without the prior written consent of the other Party, and any attempt to assign any rights or obligations arising under this Agreement without such consent shall be void; that either Party may assign this Agreement to a purchaser of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of such Party so long as such purchaser expressly assumes, in a written instrument in form reasonably satisfactory to the non-assigning Party, the due and punctual performance or observance of every agreement and covenant of this Agreement on the part of the assigning Party to be performed or observed.
Section 5.9 Assignment.
provided
          The provisions to this Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Section 5.10 Successors and Assigns.
          This Agreement (including Article III hereof) may be terminated and the Distribution may be amended, modified or abandoned at any time prior to the Distribution by and in the sole discretion of Cablevision without the approval of MSG or the stockholders of Cablevision. In the event of such termination, no Party shall have any liability of any kind to any other Party or any other Person. After the Distribution, this Agreement may not be terminated except by an agreement in writing signed by the Parties; , however, that Article III shall not be terminated or amended after the Distribution in respect of a Third Party beneficiary thereto without the consent of such Person.
Section 5.11 Termination.
provided
          Each of the Parties shall cause to be performed, and hereby guarantees the performance of, all actions, agreements and obligations set forth herein to be performed by any entity that is contemplated to be a Subsidiary of such Party after the Distribution Date.
Section 5.12 Subsidiaries.
          Except as provided in Article III relating to Indemnitees, this Agreement is solely for the benefit of the Parties and their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates and should not be deemed to confer upon any other Person any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement, cause of action or other right in excess of those existing without reference to this Agreement.
Section 5.13 Third-Party Beneficiaries.
          Titles and headings to Sections herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be a part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Section 5.14 Title and Headings.
          The Schedules shall be construed with and as an integral part of this Agreement to the same extent (except as set forth in the last sentence of Section 5.1) as if the same had been set forth verbatim herein.
Section 5.15 Schedules.
 
          . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Section 5.16 Governing Law
          The Parties hereby irrevocably waive any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or related to this Agreement.
Section 5.17 Waiver of Jury Trial.
          From and after the Distribution, in the event of any actual or threatened default in, or breach of, any of the terms, conditions and provisions of this Agreement, the Parties agree that the Party to this Agreement who is or is to be thereby aggrieved shall have the right to specific performance and injunctive or other equitable relief of its rights under this Agreement, in addition to any and all other rights and remedies at law or in equity, and all such rights and remedies shall be cumulative. The Parties agree that, from and after the Distribution, the remedies at law for any breach or threatened breach of this Agreement, including monetary damages, are inadequate compensation for any loss, that any defense in any action for specific performance that a remedy at law would be adequate is hereby waived, and that any requirements for the securing or posting of any bond with such remedy are hereby waived.
Section 5.18 Specific Performance.
          In the event any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and therein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. The Parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions, the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
Section 5.19 Severability.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
Schedule A
 
 
 
SUBSIDIARY
 
Rainbow Garden Corp.
Regional MSG Holdings LLC
MSG Eden Corporation
Madison Square Garden, L.P. (MSG LP)
Continental Road LLC
Garden Programming, L.L.C.
Madison Square Garden CT, LLC
MSG Aircraft Leasing, LLC
MSG Flight Operations, LLC
MSG Chicago, LLC
NY Rangers Enterprises Company
The 31st Street Company, L.L.C.
Radio City Productions LLC
The Grand Tour, LLC
Radio City Trademarks, LLC
MSG Aviator, LLC
MSG Training Center, LLC
MSG National Properties LLC
MSG Boston Theatrical, L.L.C.
MSG Winter Productions, LLC
MSG Vaudeville, LLC
FUSE Holdings LLC
FUSE Networks LLC (Fuse)
FUSE Programming Inc.
Sports Channel Associates
 
Schedule B
 
 
 
Schedule C-1
 
None.
 
Schedule C-2
 
None.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
     Transition Services Agreement, dated as of January 12, 2010 (this ""), between Cablevision Systems Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), and Madison Square Garden, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("").
Agreement
Cablevision
MSG
     WHEREAS, Cablevision and MSG have entered into a Distribution Agreement, dated as of January 12, 2010 (the ""), which sets forth the terms pursuant to which Cablevision and its subsidiary CSC Holdings, Inc. ("CSC Holdings"), will transfer certain assets to MSG and Cablevision will distribute the common stock of MSG to shareholders of Cablevision (the ""); and
Distribution Agreement
Distribution
     WHEREAS, in connection with the Distribution, and in order to ensure an orderly transition under the Distribution Agreement, it will be necessary for each of the parties to provide to the other the Services described herein for a transitional period;
     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants contained herein, agree as follows:
     As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the respective meanings set forth below:
Section 1.1. General.
     "" shall have the meaning assigned to that term in the Distribution Agreement.
Ancillary Agreement
     "" shall mean the rate of interest per annum announced from time to time by Citibank, N.A., as its prime lending rate plus three percent (3%) per annum.
Applicable Rate
     "" with respect to a party shall mean the filing of an involuntary petition in bankruptcy or similar proceeding against such party seeking its reorganization, liquidation or the appointment of a receiver, trustee or liquidator for it or for all or substantially all of its assets, whereupon such petition shall not be dismissed within sixty (60) days after the filing thereof, or if such party shall (i) apply for or consent in writing to the appointment of a receiver, trustee or liquidator of all or substantially all of its assets, (ii) file a voluntary petition or admit in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due, (iii) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, (iv) file a petition or an answer seeking reorganization or an arrangement with its creditors or take advantage of any insolvency law with respect to itself as debtor, or (v) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency proceedings or any similar proceedings.
Bankruptcy Event
     "" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks in New York City, New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
 
     "" shall mean those transitional services, including any Additional Services, to be provided by Cablevision to MSG set forth on Schedule A hereto to assist MSG in operating MSG's business following the Distributions. Services or actions of Overlap Individuals shall not be considered to be Cablevision Services under this Agreement unless expressly agreed in writing by both parties to this Agreement.
Cablevision Services
     "" shall mean any damage, claim, loss, charge, action, suit, proceeding, deficiency, tax, interest, penalty and reasonable costs and expenses related thereto (including reasonable attorneys' fees).
Loss
     "" shall mean any natural person, corporation, business trust, limited liability company, joint venture, association, company, partnership or government, or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
     "" shall mean those transitional services, including any Additional Services, to be provided by MSG to Cablevision set forth on Schedule B hereto to assist Cablevision in operating Cablevision's business following the Distributions. Services or actions of Overlap Individuals shall not be considered to be MSG Services under this Agreement unless expressly agreed in writing by both parties to this Agreement.
MSG Services
     "" shall mean Persons who are officers or directors of both Cablevision and MSG.
Overlap Individuals
     "" shall mean, collectively, the Cablevision Services and the MSG Services.
Services
     "" shall mean any Person who is not a Party to this Agreement.
Third-Party
     References in this Agreement to any gender include references to all genders, and references to the singular include references to the plural and vice versa. The words "", "" and "" when used in this Agreement shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "." Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Agreement to Articles, Sections and Schedules shall be deemed references to Articles and Sections of, and Schedules to, this Agreement. Unless the context otherwise requires, the words "", "" and "" and words of similar meaning when used in this Agreement refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular Article, Section or provision of this Agreement.
Section 1.2. Reference; Interpretation.
include
includes
including
without limitation
hereof
hereby
herein
     . Cablevision shall provide to MSG each Cablevision Service for the term set forth opposite the description of such Cablevision Service in Schedule A. Additional Services may be provided to MSG by Cablevision as provided in Section 2.3. At its option and with the consent of MSG (which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld), Cablevision may cause any Cablevision Service it is required to provide hereunder to be provided
Section 2.1. Services
 
by any other Person or entity that is providing, or may from time to time provide, the same or similar services for Cablevision.
     (a) MSG shall provide to Cablevision each MSG Service for the term set forth opposite the description of such MSG Service in Schedule B. Additional Services may be provided by MSG to Cablevision as provided in Section 2.3. At its option and with the consent of Cablevision (which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld), MSG may cause any MSG Service it is required to provide hereunder to be provided by any other Person or entity that is providing, or may from time to time provide, the same or similar services for MSG.
     Cablevision and MSG shall maintain sufficient resources to perform their respective obligations hereunder. In performing the Services, Cablevision and MSG shall provide substantially the same level of service and use substantially the same degree of care as their respective personnel provided and used in providing such Services prior to completion of the Distribution for itself (but in no event less than a reasonable degree of care), subject in each case to any provisions set forth on Schedule A or Schedule B with respect to each such Service. Each party shall provide reasonable assistance to the other party in migrating the applicable Services to the recipient of such Services.
Section 2.2. Standard of Service.
     From time to time after the date hereof, the parties may identify additional services that one party will provide to the other party in accordance with the terms of this Agreement (the ""). The parties shall cooperate and act in good faith to agree on the terms pursuant to which any such Additional Service shall be provided and to amend Schedule A or B, as applicable, in accordance with such terms. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither party shall have any obligation to agree to provide Additional Services.
Section 2.3. Additional Services.
Additional Services
     The parties shall each appoint a representative (each, a "") to facilitate communications and performance under this Agreement. Each party may treat an act of a Representative of another party as being authorized by such other party without inquiring behind such act or ascertaining whether such Representative had authority to so act. Each Party shall have the right at any time and from time to time to replace its Representative by giving notice in writing to the other party. The initial representative of each party is as set forth on Schedule C.
Section 2.4. Representative.
Representative
     Each party warrants and covenants that all duties and obligations (including with respect to Cablevision, all Cablevision Services and with respect to MSG, all MSG Services) to be performed hereunder shall be performed in compliance with all material applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Each party shall obtain and maintain all material permits, approvals and licenses necessary or appropriate to perform its duties and obligations (including with respect to Cablevision, the Cablevision Services and with respect to MSG, the MSG Services) hereunder and shall at all times comply with the terms and conditions of such permits, approvals and licenses.
Section 3.1. Licenses and Permits.
 
     (a) In consideration for the provision of each of the Cablevision Services, MSG shall pay to Cablevision the fee calculated as set forth for such Cablevision Service on Schedule A.
Section 4.1. General.
     (b) In consideration for the provision of each of the MSG Services, Cablevision shall pay to MSG the fee as calculated as set forth for such MSG Service on Schedule B.
     (a) In addition to the fees payable in accordance with Section 4.1(a), MSG shall reimburse Cablevision for all reasonable and necessary out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including without limitation postage and other delivery costs, telephone, telecopy and similar expenses) incurred by Cablevision with respect to Third Parties in connection with the provision of Cablevision Services to MSG pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or paid by Cablevision on behalf of MSG; that if Cablevision expects to incur in respect of a Third Party in any month costs and expenses in excess of $25,000 and not already contemplated by Schedule A, Cablevision shall use best reasonable efforts to provide to MSG prior to the first day of such month a written notice setting forth Cablevision's reasonable estimate of the expenses it expects to incur.
Section 4.2. Additional Expenses.
provided
     (b) In addition to the fees payable for expenses in accordance with Section 4.1(b), Cablevision shall reimburse MSG for all reasonable and necessary out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including without limitation postage and other delivery costs, telephone, telecopy and similar expenses) incurred by MSG with respect to Third Parties in connection with the provision of MSG Services to Cablevision pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or paid by MSG on behalf of Cablevision; that if MSG expects to incur in respect of a Third Party in any month costs and expenses in excess of $25,000 and not already contemplated by Schedule B, MSG shall use best reasonable efforts to provide to Cablevision prior to the first day of such a month written notice setting forth MSG's reasonable estimate of the expenses it expects to incur
provided
     (a) Cablevision will invoice MSG in U.S. dollars: (i) as of the last day of each calendar month for any fees payable by MSG in accordance with Section 4.1(a) for Cablevision Services listed on Schedule A provided pursuant to the terms of this Agreement during such month; (ii) as of the last day of each calendar month for any amounts payable by MSG in accordance with Section 4.2(a) (and enclosing invoices from the relevant Third Parties); and (iii) as of the last day of each calendar month for any taxes (excluding income taxes) accrued with respect to the provision of Cablevision Services to MSG during such month. Cablevision shall deliver or cause to be delivered to MSG each such invoice within thirty (30) days following the last day of the calendar month to which such invoice relates. MSG shall pay each such invoice received by electronic funds transfer as follows: in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), within twenty (20) Business Days of the date on which such invoice was received, and in the case of clause (iii), not later than one (1) Business Day prior to the due date for such tax payments; that Cablevision delivers such invoice not less than three (3) Business Days prior to the due date for such tax payments.
Section 4.3. Invoices.
provided
 
     (b) MSG will invoice Cablevision in U.S. dollars: (i) as of the last day of each calendar month for any fees payable by Cablevision in accordance with Section 4.1(b) for MSG Services listed on Schedule B provided pursuant to the terms of this Agreement during such month; (ii) as of the last day of each calendar month for any amounts payable by Cablevision in accordance with Section 4.2(b) (and enclosing invoices from such Third Parties); and (iii) as of the last day of each calendar month for any taxes (excluding income taxes) accrued with respect to the provision of MSG Services to Cablevision during such month. MSG shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Cablevision each such invoice within thirty (30) days following the last day of the calendar month to which such invoice relates. Cablevision shall pay each such invoice received by electronic funds transfer: in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), within twenty (20) Business Days of the date on which such invoice was received, and in the case of clause (iii), not later than one (1) Business Day prior to the due date for such tax payments' that MSG delivers such invoice not less than three (3) Business Days prior to the due date for such tax payments.
provided
     Any undisputed amount not paid when due shall be subject to a late payment fee computed daily at a rate equal to the Applicable Rate from the due date of such amount to the date such amount is paid. Each party agrees to pay the other party's reasonable attorneys' fees and other costs incurred in collection of any amounts owed to such other party hereunder and not paid when due. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in the event either party fails to make a payment of any undisputed amount when due hereunder, and such failure continues for a period of thirty (30) days following delivery of notice to such non-paying party of such failure, the other party shall have the right to cease provision of such Services to such non-paying party until such overdue payment (and any applicable late payment fee accrued with respect thereto) is paid in full. Such right of the party providing services shall not in any manner limit or prejudice any of such party's other rights or remedies in the event of the non-paying party's failure to make payments when due hereunder, including without limitation any rights or remedies pursuant to Sections 6, 8 and 10.
Section 4.4. Failure to Pay.
     In the event of a termination of Services pursuant to Section 8, with respect to the calendar month in which such Services cease to be provided, the recipient of such Services shall be obligated to pay a fee for such Services calculated as set forth on Schedule A or B, as applicable for the portion of the month prior to the termination. Where possible, the parties agree to work together cooperatively to seek to have terminations occur as of month ends, but this agreement shall not limit a party's right to effect a termination in accordance with this agreement other than as of a month end.
Section 4.5. Termination of Services.
     MSG does hereby, for itself and each of its subsidiaries, agree that Cablevision and its subsidiaries and their respective directors, officers and employees shall not have any liability whatsoever as a result of the insurance policies and practices of Cablevision and its affiliates as in effect at any time prior to the Distribution, including as a result of the level or scope of any such insurance, the creditworthiness of any insurance carrier, the selection, identity or performance of any third party administrator, the terms and conditions of any policy, the adequacy or timeliness of any notice to any insurance carrier with respect to any claim or potential claim or otherwise.
Section 5.1. Disclaimer.
 
     Cablevision agrees to use its best reasonable efforts to cause the interest and rights of MSG and each of its subsidiaries as of the date of the Distribution as insureds, additional named insureds or beneficiaries or in any other capacity under occurrence-based insurance policies and programs (and under claims-made policies and programs to the extent a claim has been submitted prior to the Distribution or later if so permitted by the terms of the applicable insurance policy and assuming that such policy is then in effect) of Cablevision in respect of periods prior to the date of the Distribution to survive the Distribution for the period for which such interests and rights would have survived without regard to the transactions contemplated hereby to the extent permitted by such policies. In accordance with this Agreement, Cablevision shall transition the administration of such insurance policies and programs to MSG and MSG shall pay the costs and fees of Cablevision during such transition as provided in Article IV and Schedule A. Any proceeds received by Cablevision or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates after the date of the Distribution under such policies and programs in respect of MSG shall be for the benefit of MSG.
Section 5.2. Insurance Transition.
     Cablevision agrees that if it obtains or maintains any insurance coverage after the date of the Distribution for matters occurring prior to that time (e.g., a claims made directors and officers insurance policy) it will also obtain or maintain such coverage for MSG and its subsidiaries, subject to MSG's payment of the fees and costs in connection therewith as provided in this Agreement.
Section 5.3. Claims Made Policies.
     MSG agrees that it will reimburse Cablevision under this Agreement for any additional premiums or other amounts owing to any third party as a result of any audit or similar procedure by a third party, to the extent that such additional premiums or amounts owing relate to MSG or any of its subsidiaries during the period MSG or such subsidiaries were covered by the relevant insurance policy.
Section 5.4. Audits and Adjustments.
     This Agreement is not intended as an attempted assignment of any policy of insurance or as a contract of insurance and shall not be construed to waive any right or remedy of Cablevision in respect of any insurance policy or any other contract or policy of insurance.
Section 5.5. No Assignment or Waiver.
     Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to restrict MSG from acquiring at its own expense any other insurance policy in respect of any liabilities or covering any period.
Section 5.6. No Limitation on MSG Insurance.
     .7. The provisions of this Article V shall not apply to insurance practices or policies relating to health and welfare plans or any other employee benefit arrangement.
Section 5
Scope.
     (a) MSG agrees to indemnify, defend and hold Cablevision harmless from and against any Loss to which Cablevision may become subject arising out of, by reason of or otherwise in connection with the provision hereunder by Cablevision of Cablevision Services, other than Losses resulting from
Section 6.1. Indemnification by Party Receiving Services.
 
Cablevision's gross negligence, willful misconduct or breach of its obligations pursuant to this Agreement. Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, MSG shall not be liable under this Section 6.1 for any consequential, special or punitive damages (including but not limited to lost profits), except to the extent that such consequential, special or punitive damages relate to a Loss resulting from a Third Party Claim (as defined below).
     (b) Cablevision agrees to indemnify, defend and hold MSG harmless from and against any Loss to which MSG may become subject arising out of, by reason of or otherwise in connection with the provision hereunder by MSG of MSG Services, other than Losses resulting from MSG's gross negligence, willful misconduct or breach of its obligations pursuant to this Agreement. Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, Cablevision shall not be liable under this Section 6.1 for any consequential, special or punitive damages (including but not limited to lost profits), except to the extent that such consequential, special or punitive damages relate to a Loss resulting from a Third Party Claim (as defined below).
     (a) Cablevision agrees to indemnify, defend and hold MSG harmless from and against any Loss to which MSG may become subject arising out of, by reason of or otherwise in connection with, the provision hereunder by Cablevision of Cablevision Services to MSG where such Losses resulted from Cablevision's gross negligence, willful misconduct or breach of its obligations pursuant to this Agreement.
Section 6.2. Indemnification by Party Providing Services.
     (b) MSG agrees to indemnify, defend and hold Cablevision harmless from and against any Loss to which Cablevision may become subject arising out of, by reason of or otherwise in connection with the provision hereunder by MSG of MSG Services to Cablevision where such Losses resulted from MSG's gross negligence, willful misconduct or breach of its obligations pursuant to this Agreement.
     (a) If a claim or demand is made against MSG or Cablevision (each, an "") by any Third Party (a "") as to which such Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement, such Indemnitee shall notify the party which is or may be required pursuant to Section 6.1 or Section 6.2 hereof to make such indemnification (the "") in writing, and in reasonable detail, of the Third Party Claim promptly and in any event by the date (the "") that is the 15th Business Day after receipt by such Indemnitee of written notice of the Third Party Claim; , however, that failure to give such notification shall not affect the indemnification provided hereunder except to the extent the Indemnifying Party shall have been actually prejudiced as a result of such failure (except that the Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for any expenses incurred during the period beginning immediately after the Outside Notice Date and ending on the date that the Indemnitee gives the required notice). Thereafter, the Indemnitee shall deliver to the Indemnifying Party, promptly (and in any event within ten Business Days) after the Indemnitee's receipt thereof, copies of all notices and documents (including court papers) received by the Indemnitee relating to the Third Party Claim.
Section 6.3. Third Party Claims.
Indemnitee
Third Party Claim
Indemnifying Party
Outside Notice Date
provided
     (b) If a Third Party Claim is made against an Indemnitee, the Indemnifying Party shall be entitled to participate in the defense thereof and, if it so chooses and acknowledges
 
in writing its obligation to indemnify the Indemnitee therefor, to assume the defense thereof with counsel selected by the Indemnifying Party, , however, that such counsel is not reasonably objected to by the Indemnitee. Should the Indemnifying Party so elect to assume the defense of a Third Party Claim, the Indemnifying Party shall, within 30 days (or sooner if the nature of the Third Party Claim so requires), notify the Indemnitee of its intent to do so, and the Indemnifying Party shall thereafter not be liable to the Indemnitee for legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with the defense thereof; , however, that such Indemnitee shall have the right to employ counsel to represent such Indemnitee if, in such Indemnitee's reasonable judgment, a conflict of interest between such Indemnitee and such Indemnifying Party exists in respect of such claim which would make representation of both such parties by one counsel inappropriate, and in such event the fees and expenses of such separate counsel shall be paid by such Indemnifying Party. If the Indemnifying Party assumes such defense, the Indemnitee shall have the right to participate in the defense thereof and to employ counsel, subject to the proviso of the preceding sentence, at its own expense, separate from the counsel employed by the Indemnifying Party, it being understood that the Indemnifying Party shall control such defense. The Indemnifying Party shall be liable for the fees and expenses of counsel employed by the Indemnitee for any period during which the Indemnifying Party has failed to assume the defense thereof (other than during the period prior to the time the Indemnitee shall have given notice of the Third Party Claim as provided above). If the Indemnifying Party so elects to assume the defense of any Third Party Claim, all of the Indemnitees shall cooperate with the Indemnifying Party in the defense or prosecution thereof, including by providing or causing to be provided agreements, documents, books, records, files and witnesses as soon as reasonably practicable after receiving any request therefor from or on behalf of the Indemnifying Party, except to the extent that providing or causing the foregoing to be provided would constitute a waiver of any Indemnitee's attorney-client privilege.
provided
provided
     (c) If the Indemnifying Party acknowledges in writing responsibility under this Article VI for a Third Party Claim, then in no event will the Indemnitee admit any liability with respect to, or settle, compromise or discharge, any Third Party Claim without the Indemnifying Party's prior written consent; , however, that the Indemnitee shall have the right to settle, compromise or discharge such Third Party Claim without the consent of the Indemnifying Party if the Indemnitee releases the Indemnifying Party from its indemnification obligation hereunder with respect to such Third Party Claim and such settlement, compromise or discharge would not otherwise adversely affect the Indemnifying Party. If the Indemnifying Party acknowledges in writing liability for a Third Party Claim, the Indemnitee will agree to any settlement, compromise or discharge of a Third Party Claim that the Indemnifying Party may recommend and that by its terms obligates the Indemnifying Party to pay the full amount of the liability in connection with such Third Party Claim and releases the Indemnitee completely in connection with such Third Party Claim and that would not otherwise adversely affect the Indemnitee. If an Indemnifying Party elects not to assume the defense of a Third Party Claim, or fails to notify an Indemnitee of its election to do so as provided herein, such Indemnitee may compromise, settle or defend such Third Party Claim.
provided
     (d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Indemnifying Party shall not be entitled to assume the defense of any Third Party Claim (and shall be liable for the fees and expenses of counsel incurred by the Indemnitee in defending such Third Party Claim) if the
 
Third Party Claim seeks an order, injunction or other equitable relief or relief for other than money damages against the Indemnitee which the Indemnitee reasonably determines, after conferring with its counsel, cannot be separated from any related claim for money damages. If such equitable relief or other relief portion of the Third Party Claim can be so separated from that for money damages, the Indemnifying Party shall be entitled to assume the defense of the portion relating to money damages.
     (e) In the event and to the extent of payment by an Indemnifying Party to any Indemnitee in connection with any Third-Party Claim, such Indemnifying Party shall be subrogated to and shall stand in the place of such Indemnitee as to any events or circumstances in respect of which such Indemnitee may have any right or claim relating to such Third-Party Claim against any claimant or plaintiff asserting such Third-Party Claim. Such Indemnitee shall cooperate with such Indemnifying Party in a reasonable manner, and at the cost and expense of such Indemnifying Party, in prosecuting any subrogated right or claim.
     (f) MSG and Cablevision shall cooperate as may reasonably be required in connection with the investigation, defense and settlement of any Third-Party Claim. In furtherance of this obligation, the parties agree that if an Indemnifying Party chooses to defend or to compromise or settle any Third-Party Claim, Cablevision or MSG, as the case may be, shall use its best reasonable efforts to make available to the other party, upon written request, their former and then current directors, officers, employees and agents and those of their subsidiaries as witnesses and any records or other documents within its control or which it otherwise has the ability to make available, to the extent that (i) any such Person, records or other documents may reasonably be required in connection with such defense, settlement or compromise and (ii) making such Person, records or other documents so available would not constitute a waiver of the attorney-client privilege of Cablevision or MSG, as the case may be.. At the request of an Indemnifying Party, an Indemnitee shall enter into a reasonably acceptable joint defense agreement.
     (g) The remedies provided in this Article VI shall be cumulative and shall not preclude assertion by any Indemnitee of any other rights or the seeking of any and all other remedies against any Indemnifying Party.
     (a) Indemnification required by this Article VI shall be made by periodic payments of the amount thereof during the course of the investigation or defense, as and when bills are received or any Loss is incurred. If the Indemnifying Party fails to make an indemnification payment required by this Article VI within 30 days after receipt of a bill therefore or notice that a Loss has been incurred, the Indemnifying Party shall also be required to pay interest on the amount of such indemnification payment, from the date of receipt of the bill or notice of the Loss to, but not including the date of payment, at the Applicable Rate.
Section 6.4. Indemnification Payments.
     (b) The amount of any claim by an Indemnitee under this Agreement shall be reduced to reflect any actual tax savings or insurance proceeds received by any Indemnitee that result from the Losses that gave rise to such indemnity.
 
     The parties' obligations under this Article VI shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Section 6.5. Survival.
     Each party shall use best reasonable efforts to cooperate with the other party in all matters relating to the provision and receipt of the Services. Such cooperation shall include, but not be limited to, exchanging information, providing electronic access to systems used in connection with the Services, performing true-ups and adjustments and obtaining all consents, licenses, sublicenses or approvals necessary to permit each party to perform its obligations hereunder. Cablevision and MSG shall maintain reasonable documentation related to the Services and cooperate with each other in making such information available as needed.
Section 7.1. Good Faith Cooperation; Consents.
     Each party shall keep confidential the Schedules to this Agreement and all information received from the other party regarding the Services, including, without limitation, any information received with respect to products and services of Cablevision or MSG, and to use such information only for the purposes set forth in this Agreement unless (i) otherwise agreed to in writing by the party from which such information was received or (ii) required by applicable law or any securities exchange (in which case the parties shall cooperate in seeking to obtain a protective order or other arrangement pursuant to which the confidentiality of such information is preserved) . The covenants in this Article VII shall survive any termination of this Agreement for a period of three (3) years from the date such termination becomes effective.
Section 7.2. Confidentiality.
     Except to the extent inconsistent with the express terms of the Distribution Agreement and any Ancillary Agreement other than this Agreement, each party agrees that:
Section 7.3. Internal Use; Title, Copies, Return.
     (a) title to all systems used in performing any Service provided hereunder shall remain in the party providing such Service or its third party vendors; and
     (b) to the extent the provision of any Service involves intellectual property, including without limitation software programs or patented or copyrighted material, or material constituting trade secrets, the recipient of such Service shall not copy, modify, reverse engineer, decompile or in any way alter any of such material, or otherwise use such material in a manner inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, without the express written consent of the party providing such Service; and upon the termination of any Service, the recipient of such Service shall return to the party providing such Service, as soon as practicable, any equipment or other property of the party providing such Service relating to such Service which is owned or leased by the party providing such Service and is or was in its possession or control.
 
     (a) Except as provided in Sections 4.5, 6.5, 7.2, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4 and 8.5, the term of this Agreement shall commence on the date hereof and shall continue in full force and effect with respect to each Service until the earlier of (i) the expiration of the term set forth opposite the description of such Service in Schedule A or B, as applicable, unless otherwise mutually agreed by the parties and (ii) the termination of such Service in accordance with Section 4.4 or 8.1(b).
Section 8.1. Duration.
     (b) Each party acknowledges that the purpose of this Agreement is for Cablevision to provide the Cablevision Services to MSG on an interim basis until MSG can perform the Cablevision Services for itself, and for MSG to provide the MSG Services to Cablevision on an interim basis until Cablevision can perform the MSG Services for itself. Accordingly, each of Cablevision and MSG shall use its best reasonable efforts to make or obtain such approvals, permits and licenses and implement such systems, as shall be necessary for it to provide the appropriate services for itself as promptly as reasonably practicable. As MSG becomes self-sufficient or engages other sources to provide any Cablevision Service, MSG shall be entitled to release Cablevision from providing any or all of the Cablevision Services hereunder by delivering a written notice thereof to Cablevision at least twenty (20) Business Days prior to the effective date of release of such Cablevision Service(s). At the end of such twenty (20) Business Day period (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the parties), Cablevision shall discontinue the provision of the Cablevision Services specified in such notice and any such Cablevision Services shall be excluded from this Agreement, and Schedule A shall be deemed to be amended accordingly. Cablevision shall also be entitled to release MSG from providing any or all of the MSG Services hereunder by delivering a written notice thereof to MSG at least twenty (20) Business Days prior to the effective date of release of such MSG Service(s). At the end of such twenty (20) Business Day period (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the parties), MSG shall discontinue the provision of the MSG Services specified in such notice and any such MSG Services shall be excluded from this Agreement, and Schedule B shall be deemed to be amended accordingly.
     Cablevision may terminate this Agreement by giving written notice to MSG under the following circumstances:
Section 8.2. Early Termination by Cablevision.
     (a) if MSG shall default in the performance of any of its material obligations under this Agreement, and such default or breach shall continue and not be remedied for a period of thirty (30) days after Cablevision has given written notice to MSG specifying such default and requiring it to be remedied; or
     (b) if a Bankruptcy Event has occurred with respect to MSG.
     MSG may terminate this Agreement by giving written notice to Cablevision under the following circumstances:
Section 8.3. Early Termination by MSG.
     (a) if Cablevision shall default in the performance of any of its material obligations under this Agreement and such default shall continue and not be remedied for a
 
period of thirty (30) days after MSG has given written notice to Cablevision specifying such default and requiring it to be remedied; or
     (b) if a Bankruptcy Event has occurred with respect to Cablevision.
     In the event the performance by either MSG or Cablevision of its duties or obligations hereunder is interrupted or interfered with by reason of any cause beyond its reasonable control including, but not limited to, fire, storm, flood, earthquake, explosion, war, strike or labor disruption, rebellion, insurrection, quarantine, act of God, boycott, embargo, shortage or unavailability of supplies, riot, or governmental law, regulation or edict (collectively, ""), the party affected by such Force Majeure Event shall not be deemed to be in default of this Agreement by reason of its non-performance due to such Force Majeure Event, but shall give notice to the other party of the Force Majeure Event and the fee provided for in Section 4.1 shall be equitably adjusted to reflect the reduced performance. In such event, the party affected by such Force Majeure Event shall resume the performance of its duties and obligations hereunder as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of the Force Majeure Event.
Section 8.4. Suspension Due to Force Majeure.
Force Majeure Events
     In the event this Agreement expires or is terminated in accordance with this Article VIII, then (a) all Services to be provided will promptly cease, (b) each of Cablevision and MSG shall, upon request of the other party, promptly return or destroy all confidential information received from the other party in connection with this Agreement (including the return of all information received with respect to the Services or products of Cablevision or MSG, as the case may be), without retaining a copy thereof (other than one copy for file purposes), and (c) each of Cablevision and MSG shall honor all credits and make any accrued and unpaid payment to the other party as required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, and no rights already accrued hereunder shall be affected.
Section 8.5. Consequences of Termination.
     Each of the parties shall create and maintain full and accurate books in connection with the provision of the Services, and all other records relevant to this Agreement, and upon reasonable notice from the other party shall make available for inspection and copy by such other party's agents such records during reasonable business hours.
Section 9.1. Maintenance of Records.
     In the event of a controversy, dispute or claim arising out of, in connection with, or in relation to the interpretation, performance, nonperformance, validity or breach of this Agreement or otherwise arising out of, or in any way related to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, including, without limitation, any claim based on contract, tort, statute or constitution (but excluding any controversy, dispute or claim arising out of any agreement relating to the use or lease of real property if any Third Party is a party to such controversy, dispute or claim) (collectively, ""), the
Section 10.1. Negotiation.
Agreement Disputes
 
management of the parties shall negotiate in good faith for a reasonable period of time to settle such Agreement Dispute, , however, that such reasonable period shall not, unless otherwise agreed by the parties in writing, exceed 30 days from the time the parties began such negotiations.
provided
     Unless otherwise agreed in writing, the parties will continue to provide service and honor all other commitments under this Agreement during the course of any form of dispute resolution with respect to all matters not subject to such dispute, controversy or claim.
Section 10.2. Continuity of Service and Performance.
     Nothing in this Article X shall limit the right that any party may otherwise have to seek to obtain (a) preliminary injunctive relief in order to preserve the status quo pending the resolution of a dispute or (b) temporary or permanent injunctive relief from any breach of any provisions of this Agreement.
Section 10.3. Other Remedies.
     All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing, shall reference this Agreement and shall be hand delivered or mailed by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified by like notice) and will be deemed given on the date on which such notice is received:
Section 11.1. Notices.
     To Cablevision:
Cablevision Systems Corporation 1111 Stewart Avenue Bethpage, New York 11714 Attention: General Counsel
     To MSG:
Madison Square Garden, Inc. Two Pennsylvania Plaza New York, NY 10001 Attention: General Counsel
     Except as may otherwise be specifically provided herein, each party shall bear all taxes, duties and other similar charges (and any related interest and penalties) imposed as a result of its receipt of Services under this Agreement.
Section 12.1. Taxes.
 
     Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed by the parties or any third party as creating the relationship of principal and agent, partnership or joint venture between the parties, it being understood and agreed that no provision contained herein, and no act of the parties, shall be deemed to create any relationship between the parties other than the relationship of independent contractor nor be deemed to vest any rights, interest or claims in any third parties.
Section 12.2. Relationship of Parties.
     This Agreement, including the Schedules hereto, shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all previous negotiations, commitments and writings with respect to such subject matter. In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and any Schedule, the Schedule shall prevail. The rights and remedies of the parties herein provided shall be cumulative and in addition to any other or further remedies provided by law or equity.
Section 12.3. Complete Agreement; Construction.
     This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more such counterparts have been signed by each party and delivered to the other party.
Section 12.4. Counterparts.
     The failure of any party to require strict performance by the other party of any provision in this Agreement will not waive or diminish that party's right to demand strict performance thereafter of that or any other provision hereof.
Section 12.5. Waivers.
     This Agreement may not be modified or amended except by an agreement in writing signed by each of the parties.
Section 12.6. Amendments.
     This Agreement shall not be assignable, in whole or in part, by any party without the prior written consent of the other party, and any attempt to assign any rights or obligations arising under this Agreement without such consent shall be void; that either party may assign this Agreement to a purchaser of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of such party so long as such purchaser expressly assumes, in a written instrument in form reasonably satisfactory to the non-assigning party, the due and punctual performance or observance of every agreement and covenant of this Agreement on the part of the assigning party to be performed or observed.
Section 12.7. Assignment.
provided
     The provisions to this Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Section 12.8. Successors and Assigns.
     This Agreement is solely for the benefit of the parties and shall not be deemed to confer upon any other Person any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement, claim of action or other right in excess of those existing without reference to this Agreement.
Section 12.9. Third Party Beneficiaries.
 
     This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York.
Section 12.10. Governing Law.
     The parties hereby irrevocably waive any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or related to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
Section 12.11. Waiver of Jury Trial.
     Subject to Article X, in the event of any actual or threatened default in, or breach of, any of the terms, conditions and provisions of this Agreement, the parties agree that the party who is or is to be thereby aggrieved shall have the right to specific performance and injunctive or other equitable relief of its rights under this Agreement, in addition to any and all other rights and remedies at law or in equity, and all such rights and remedies shall be cumulative. The parties agree that the remedies at law for any breach or threatened breach of this Agreement, including monetary damages, are inadequate compensation for any loss, that any defense in any action for specific performance that a remedy at law would be adequate is hereby waived, and that any requirements for the securing or posting of any bond with such remedy are hereby waived.
Section 12.12. Specific Performance.
     In the event any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and therein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. The parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions, the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
Section 12.13. Severability.
     Nothing contained in this Agreement shall affect the rights and obligations of Cablevision and MSG pursuant to the Distribution Agreement.
Section 12.14. Provisions Unaffected.
     Neither Cablevision nor MSG shall be deemed to be the drafter of this Agreement and no term or provision of this Agreement may be construed against any party on that basis.
Section 12.15. No Presumption.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the parties as of the date first herein above written.

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
     THIS TAX DISAFFILIATION AGREEMENT (the "") is dated as of January 12, 2009, by and between Cablevision Systems Corporation, a Delaware corporation "", and Madison Square Garden, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision ("" and, together with Cablevision, the ""). Unless otherwise indicated, all "Section" references in this Agreement are to sections of the Agreement.
Agreement
(
Cablevision
)
MSG
Parties
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Cablevision determined that, based on the Corporate Business Purposes, it is in the best interests of Cablevision and its stockholders to separate the businesses of MSG, all as more fully described in MSG's registration statement on Form 10, from Cablevision's other businesses on the terms and conditions set forth in the Distribution Agreement between Cablevision and MSG dated on or about the date hereof (the "");
Distribution Agreement
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of CSC Holdings, LLC ("") authorized the distribution to Cablevision, as the sole stockholder of CSC, of all the MSG Common Stock (the "") and has determined that, based on the Corporate Business Purposes, the CSC Distribution is in the best interests of CSC and its stockholder and has approved the Distribution Agreement;
CSC
CSC Distribution
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Cablevision has authorized the distribution to the holders of the issued and outstanding shares of NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Cablevision ""and NY Group Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Cablevision ("" and, together with the Cablevision Class A Stock, the "") as of the record date for the distribution of all the issued and outstanding shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of MSG (the "") and Class B common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of MSG (the "") (each such MSG Class A Common Share and MSG Class B Common Share is individually referred to as an "" and collectively referred to as the ""), respectively, on the basis of one MSG Share for every four shares of Cablevision Common Stock (the "");
(
Cablevision Class A Stock
)
Cablevision Class B Stock
Cablevision Common Stock
MSG Class A Common Shares
MSG Class B Common Shares
MSG Share
MSG Shares
Distribution
     WHEREAS, Cablevision intends the Distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction described under Sections 368(a)(1)(D), 355, and 361 of the Code;
     WHEREAS, the Boards of Directors of Cablevision and MSG have each determined that the Distribution and the other transactions contemplated by the Distribution Agreement, and the Ancillary Agreements (as defined below) are in furtherance of and consistent with the Corporate Business Purposes and, as such, are in the best interests of their respective companies and stockholders or sole stockholder, as applicable, and have approved the Distribution Agreement, and each of the Ancillary Agreements;
     WHEREAS, the Parties set forth in the Distribution Agreement the principal arrangements between them regarding the separation of the MSG Group from the Cablevision Group; and
     WHEREAS, the Parties desire to provide for and agree upon the allocation between the Parties of liabilities for Taxes arising prior to, as a result of, and subsequent to the Distribution, and to provide for and agree upon other matters relating to Taxes.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained in this Agreement, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
     For purposes of this Agreement (including the recitals hereof), the following terms have the following meanings:
SECTION 1. Definition of Terms.
     "Affiliate" means, when used with respect to any specified Person, a Person that directly or indirectly Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common Control with such specified Person. Unless explicitly provided
 
herein to the contrary, (x) neither Cablevision nor any member of the Cablevision Group shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of MSG or any of its Subsidiaries; and (y) neither MSG nor any member of the MSG Group shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of Cablevision or any of its Subsidiaries.
     "Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereof.
     "Ancillary Agreements" means the agreements encompassed by such term in the Distribution Agreement.
     "Business Day" has the meaning set forth in the Distribution Agreement.
     "Cablevision" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereof.
     "Cablevision Business" means such cable video business as set forth in the Ruling Request that constitutes an active trade or business, within the meaning of Section 355(b) of the Code, of the separate affiliated group of Cablevision, as determined in the Ruling.
     "Cablevision Class A Common Stock" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
     "Cablevision Class B Common Stock" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
     "Cablevision Common Stock" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
     "Cablevision Group" means Cablevision and each Subsidiary of Cablevision (but only while such Subsidiary is a Subsidiary of Cablevision) other than any Person that is a member of the MSG Group (but only during the period such Person is treated as a member of the MSG Group).
     "Cablevision Indemnified Party" includes each member of the Cablevision Group, each of their representatives and Affiliates, each of their respective directors, officers, managers and employees, and each of their heirs, executors, trustees, administrators, successors and assigns.
     "Cablevision Tainting Act" means any breach of a representation or covenant made by Cablevision in Section 7.1 or Section 7.4 of this Agreement, if as a result of such breach a Final Determination is made that the Contribution and Distribution failed to be tax-free by reason of (i) failing to qualify as a distribution described in Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, (ii) any stock of MSG failing to qualify as "qualified property" within the meaning of Section 355(c)(2) of the Code or, where applicable, failing to be stock permitted to be received without recognition of gain or loss under Section 361(a) of the Code, or (iii) the application of Sections 355(d) or 355(e) of the Code to the Distribution.
     "Code" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
     "Combined Return" means a consolidated, combined or unitary Tax Return that includes, by election or otherwise, one or more members of the Cablevision Group and one or more members of the MSG Group.
     "Companies" means Cablevision and MSG.
     "Company" means Cablevision or MSG, as the context requires.
     "Compensatory Equity Interests" means options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units or other rights with respect to Cablevision Common Stock or MSG Stock that are granted by Cablevision, MSG or any of their respective Subsidiaries in connection with employee or director compensation or other employee benefits.
     "Compensatory Equity Net Share Settlements" means "net share settlement" transactions with respect to Compensatory Equity Interests between either Party (or any of their respective Subsidiaries) on the one hand and the employee (or director, as the case may be) of such Party or the other Party (or any of their respective Subsidiaries)
 
on the other hand, in each case pursuant to the terms of the relevant agreement with respect to such Compensatory Equity Interests.
     "Contribution" means the contribution by Cablevision (through entities disregarded as separate from Cablevision for U.S. federal tax purposes) to MSG of all the shares of Rainbow Garden Corp., a Delaware corporation, and all the membership interests of Regional MSG Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, in exchange for the MSG Stock.
     "Control" means, with respect to any Person, the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through ownership of securities or partnership, membership, limited liability company, or other ownership interests, by contract or otherwise and the terms "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
     "Controlling Party" means, with respect to a Tax Contest, the Person that has responsibility, control and discretion in handling, defending, settling or contesting such Tax Contest.
     "Corporate Business Purposes" means the Corporate Business Purposes as set forth in the Tax Opinion Representations and the "Reasons for the Distribution" in MSG's Registration statement on Form 10.
     "Covered Income Taxes" means any Income Taxes other than New York City Unincorporated Business Tax as currently imposed by Section 11-503 of the New York City Administrative Code or any successor thereto.
     "CSC" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
     "CSC Distribution" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
     "Deconsolidation Taxes" means any Taxes imposed on any member of the Cablevision Group or the MSG Group as a result of or in connection with the Contribution and the Distribution (or any portion thereof), including, but not limited to, any Taxes imposed pursuant to or as a result of Section 311 or 1502 of the Code or the Treasury Regulations thereunder (and under any applicable similar state, local or foreign law), but excluding any Transfer Taxes and Distribution Taxes.
     "Disclosing Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.3.
     "Distribution" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereof.
     "Distribution Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereof.
     "Distribution Date" means the date on which the Distribution occurs.
     "Distribution Taxes" means any Taxes arising from a Final Determination that the Contribution and Distribution failed to be tax-free to Cablevision in accordance with the requirements of Section 355 or 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code (including any Taxes resulting from the application of Section 355(d) or (e) to the Distribution), and shall include any Taxes resulting from an election under Section 336(e) of the Code in the circumstances set forth in Section 4.5 hereof.
     "Due Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.3.
     "Effective Time" shall mean 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on the Distribution Date.
     "Employee Matters Agreement" means the Employee Matters Agreement by and between Cablevision and MSG entered into on or about the date hereof.
     "Excess Taxes" means the excess of (x) the Taxes for which Cablevision Group is liable if an election is made pursuant to Section 336(e) of the Code under Section 4.5 of this Agreement, (y) the Taxes for which
over
 
Cablevision Group is liable if such an election is not made, in each case taking into account the allocation of Taxes that is otherwise applicable in this Agreement but without regard to Section 4.5 hereof.
     "Expert Law Firm" means a law firm nationally recognized for its expertise in the matter for which its opinion is sought.
     "Fifty-Percent Equity Interest" means, in respect of any corporation (within the meaning of the Code), stock or other equity interests of such corporation possessing (i) at least fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock or equity interests entitled to vote, or (ii) at least fifty percent (50%) of the total value of shares of all classes of stock or of the total value of all equity interests.
     "Final Determination" means a determination within the meaning of Section 1313 of the Code or any similar provision of state or local Tax Law.
     "Group" means the Cablevision Group or the MSG Group, as the context requires.
     "Income Taxes" means any Tax which is based upon, measured by, or calculated with respect to (i) net income or profits (including, but not limited to, any capital gains, gross receipts, value added or minimum Tax) or (ii) multiple bases (including, but not limited to, corporate franchise, doing business or occupation Taxes) if one or more of the bases upon which such Tax may be based, by which it may be measured, or with respect to which it may be calculated is described in clause (i) of this sentence.
     "Indemnified Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.4.
     "Indemnifying Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.4.
     "Interest Rate" means the Rate determined below, as adjusted as of each Interest Rate Determination Date. The "Rate" means, with respect to each period between two consecutive Interest Rate Determination Dates, a rate determined at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York time, two Business Days before the first Interest Rate Determination Date equal to: (x) the sum of (i) the six-month dollar LIBOR rate as displayed on page "LR" of Bloomberg (or such other appropriate page as may replace such page), plus (ii) 2%, (y) if higher if with respect to a payment to indemnify for a Tax to which the "large corporate underpayment" provision within the meaning of Section 6621(c) applies, such interest rate that would be applicable at such time to such "large corporate underpayment."
or
and
     "Interest Rate Determination Date" means the Due Date and each March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 thereafter.
     "IRS" means the Internal Revenue Service.
     "MSG" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereof.
     "MSG Business" means the "Fuse national music programming network" business as set forth in the Ruling Request that constitutes an active trade or business, within the meaning of Section 355(b) of the Code, of the separate affiliated group of MSG, as determined in the Ruling.
     "MSG Class B Common Shares" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
     "MSG Group" means (x) with respect to any Tax Year (or portion thereof) ending at or before the Effective Time, MSG and each of its Subsidiaries at the Effective Time; and (y) with respect to any Tax Year (or portion thereof) beginning after the Effective Time, MSG and each Subsidiary of MSG (but only while such Subsidiary is a Subsidiary of MSG).
 
     "MSG Indemnified Party" includes each member of the MSG Group, each of their representatives and Affiliates, each of their respective directors, officers, managers and employees, and each of their heirs, executors, trustees, administrators, successors and assigns.
     "MSG Shares" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
     "MSG Tainting Act" means a breach of the covenant made by MSG in Section 7.1 of this Agreement or the taking of a Restricted Action, if as a result of such breach or taking of a Restricted Action a Final Determination is made that the Contribution and Distribution failed to be tax-free by reason of (i) failing to qualify as a distribution described in Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, (ii) any stock of MSG failing to qualify as "qualified property" within the meaning of Section 355(c)(2) of the Code or, where applicable, failing to be stock permitted to be received without recognition of gain or loss under Section 361(a) of the Code, or (iii) the application of Sections 355(d) or 355(e) of the Code to the Distribution.
     "Non-Controlling Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3(a).
     "Non-Preparer" means any Company that is not responsible for the preparation and filing of the applicable Tax Return pursuant to Sections 3.1 or 3.2.
     "Parties" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereof.
     "Payment Date" means (x) with respect to any U.S. federal income tax return, the date on which any required installment of estimated taxes determined under Section 6655 of the Code is due, the date on which (determined without regard to extensions) filing the return determined under Section 6072 of the Code is required, and the date the return is filed, and (y) with respect to any other Tax Return, the corresponding dates determined under the applicable Tax Law.
     "Permitted Acquisition" means any acquisition (as a result of the Distribution) of MSG Shares solely by reason of holding Cablevision Common Stock, but does not include such an acqusition if such Cablevision Common Stock, before such acquisition, was itself acquired in a manner to which the flush language of Section 355(e)(3)(A) of the Code applies (thus causing, for the avoidance of doubt, Section 355(e)(3)(A)(i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) not to apply).
     "Person" means any individual, corporation, company, partnership, trust, incorporated or unincorporated association, joint venture or other entity of any kind.
     "Post-Distribution Period" means any Tax Year or other taxable period beginning after the Distribution Date and, in the case of any Straddle Period, that part of the Tax Year or other taxable period that begins at the beginning of the day after the Distribution Date.
     "Pre-Distribution Period" means any Tax Year or other taxable period that ends on or before the Distribution Date and, in the case of any Straddle Period, that part of the Tax Year or other taxable period through the end of the day on the Distribution Date.
     "Preparer" means the Company that is responsible for the preparation and filing of the applicable Tax Return pursuant to Sections 3.1 or 3.2.
     "Receiving Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.3.
     "Residual Taxes" means all Taxes other than Covered Income Taxes.
     "Restricted Action" means any action by MSG or any of its Subsidiaries inconsistent with the covenants set forth in Section 7.3; and, for the avoidance of doubt, an action shall be and remain a Restricted Action even if MSG or any of its Subsidiaries is permitted to take such an action pursuant to Section 7.5.
 
     "Restriction Period" means the period beginning on the Distribution Date and ending twenty-four (24) months after the Distribution Date.
     "Ruling" means the private letter ruling that was issued to Cablevision in response to the Ruling Request.
     "Ruling Request" means the request for ruling in connection with the Distribution filed by Cablevision with the IRS, as amended or supplemented, including any appendices and exhibits attached thereto or included therewith and including so much of the pre-submission materials submitted by Cablevision to the IRS, as relate to the Distribution.
     "Satisfactory Guidance" means either a ruling from the IRS or an Unqualified Opinion, in either case reasonably satisfactory to Cablevision in both form and substance.
     "Separate Return" means (a) in the case of any Tax Return required under relevant Tax Law to be filed by any member of the Cablevision Group (including any consolidated, combined or unitary Tax Return), any such Tax Return that does not include any member of the MSG Group, and (b) in the case of any Tax Return required under relevant Tax Law to be filed by any member of the MSG Group (including any consolidated, combined or unitary Tax Return), any such Tax Return that does not include any member of the Cablevision Group.
     "Straddle Period" means any taxable period beginning on or prior to, and ending after, the Distribution Date.
     "Subsidiary" when used with respect to any Person, means (i)(A) a corporation a majority in voting power of whose share capital or capital stock with voting power, under ordinary circumstances, to elect directors is at the time, directly or indirectly, owned by such Person, by one or more Subsidiaries of such Person, or by such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person, whether or not such power is subject to a voting agreement or similar encumbrance, (B) a partnership or limited liability company in which such Person or a Subsidiary of such Person is, at the date of determination, (1) in the case of a partnership, a general partner of such partnership with the power affirmatively to direct the policies and management of such partnership or (2) in the case of a limited liability company, the managing member or, in the absence of a managing member, a member with the power affirmatively to direct the policies and management of such limited liability company, or (C) any other Person (other than a corporation) in which such Person, one or more Subsidiaries of such Person or such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person, directly or indirectly, at the date of determination thereof, has or have (1) the power to elect or direct the election of a majority of the members of the governing body of such Person, whether or not such power is subject to a voting agreement or similar encumbrance, or (2) in the absence of such a governing body, at least a majority ownership interest or (ii) any other Person of which an aggregate of 50% or more of the equity interests are, at the time, directly or indirectly, owned by such Person and/or one or more Subsidiaries of such Person.
     "Tax" or "Taxes" means any income, gross income, gross receipts, profits, capital stock, franchise, withholding, payroll, social security, workers' compensation, employment, unemployment, disability, property, ad valorem, stamp, excise, severance, occupation, service, sales, use, license, lease, transfer, import, export, value added, alternative minimum, estimated or other similar tax (including any fee, assessment, or other charge in the nature of or in lieu of any tax) imposed by any Tax Authority and any interest, penalties, additions to tax, or additional amounts in respect of the foregoing, together with any reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees, incurred in defending against any such tax.
     "Tax Adjustment" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.6.
     "Tax Authority" means, with respect to any Tax, the governmental entity or political subdivision, agency, commission or authority thereof that imposes such Tax, and the agency, commission or authority (if any) charged with the assessment, determination or collection of such Tax for such entity or subdivision.
     "Tax Benefit" means a reduction in the Tax liability of a taxpayer (or of the affiliated group of which it is a member) for any taxable period. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, a Tax Benefit shall be deemed to
 
have been realized or received from a Tax Item in a taxable period only if and to the extent that the Tax liability of the taxpayer (or of the affiliated group of which it is a member) for such period, after taking into account the effect of the Tax Item on the Tax liability of such taxpayer in the current period and all prior periods, is less than it would have been if such Tax liability were determined without regard to such Tax Item.
     "Tax Contest" means an audit, review, examination, or any other administrative or judicial proceeding with the purpose, potential or effect of redetermining Taxes of any member of either Group (including any administrative or judicial review of any claim for refund).
     "Tax Counsel" means Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.
     "Tax-Free Status" means the qualification of the Contribution and Distribution (a) as a transaction described in Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code and (b) as a transaction in which the stock distributed thereby are "qualified property" for purposes of Section 361(c) of the Code.
     "Tax Item" means, with respect to any Tax, any item of income, gain, loss, deduction, credit or other attribute that may have the effect of increasing or decreasing any Tax.
     "Tax Law" means the law of any governmental entity or political subdivision thereof, and any controlling judicial or administrative interpretations of such law, relating to any Tax.
     "Tax Opinion" means the opinion to be delivered by Tax Counsel to Cablevision in connection with the Distribution to the effect that (i) Cablevision will not recognize gain or loss upon the Distribution under Section 361(c) of the Code, and (ii) shareholders of Cablevision will not recognize gain or loss upon the Distribution under Section 355(a) of the Code, and no amount will be included in such shareholders' income, except in respect of cash received in lieu of fractional shares of MSG.
     "Tax Opinion Representations" means the representations made to Tax Counsel in connection with the Tax Opinion.
     "Tax Records" means Tax Returns, Tax Return work papers, documentation relating to any Tax Contests, and any other books of account or records required to be maintained under applicable Tax Laws (including but not limited to Section 6001 of the Code) or under any record retention agreement with any Tax Authority.
     "Tax Return" means any report of Taxes due, any claims for refund of Taxes paid, any information return with respect to Taxes, or any other similar report, statement, declaration, or document filed or required to be filed (by paper, electronically or otherwise) under any applicable Tax Law, including any attachments, exhibits, or other materials submitted with any of the foregoing, and including any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing.
     "Tax Year" means, with respect to any Tax, the year, or shorter period, if applicable, for which the Tax is reported as provided under applicable Tax Law.
     "Transfer Taxes" means all U.S. federal, state, local or foreign sales, use, privilege, transfer, documentary, gains, stamp, duties, recording, and similar Taxes and fees (including any penalties, interest or additions thereto) imposed upon any Party hereto or any of its Affiliates in connection with the Distribution.
     "Treasury Regulations" means the regulations promulgated from time to time under the Code as in effect for the relevant Tax Year.
     "Unqualified Opinion" means an unqualified "will" opinion of an Expert Law Firm that permits reliance by Cablevision. For the avoidance of doubt, an Unqualified Opinion may be based on factual representations and assumptions that are reasonably satisfactory to Cablevision.
     
SECTION 2. Allocation of Taxes and Tax-Related Losses.
 
     2.1 . Except as provided in Section 2.2 (Allocation of Deconsolidation Taxes, Distribution Taxes and Transfer Taxes), Taxes shall be allocated as follows:
Allocation of Taxes
     (a) Cablevision shall be liable for and shall be allocated (i) any Taxes attributable to members of the Cablevision Group for all periods, and (ii) any Covered Income Taxes attributable to members of the MSG Group for a Pre-Distribution Period.
     (b) MSG shall be liable for and shall be allocated (i) any Residual Taxes attributable to members of the MSG Group for a Pre-Distribution Period, and (ii) any Taxes attributable to members of the MSG Group for any Post-Distribution Period.
     (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 2.1(a) and 2.1(b) (but subject to the provisions of Section 2.2), Taxes attributable to any transaction or action taken by or with respect to any member of the MSG Group before the Effective Time on the Distribution Date shall be allocated to the Pre-Distribution Period, and Taxes attributable to any transaction or action taken by or with respect to any member of the MSG Group after the Effective Time on the Distribution Date shall be allocated to the Post-Distribution Period.
     2.2 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement:
Allocation of Deconsolidation Taxes, Distribution Taxes and Transfer Taxes.
     (a) Any and all Deconsolidation Taxes shall be borne by Cablevision.
     (b) MSG shall indemnify and hold harmless each Cablevision Indemnified Party from and against any liability of Cablevision for Distribution Taxes to the extent such Distribution Taxes are attributable to an MSG Tainting Act, , , that MSG shall have no obligation to indemnify any Cablevision Indemnified Party hereunder if there has occurred, prior to such MSG Tainting Act, a Cablevision Tainting Act.
provided
however
     (c) Cablevision shall indemnify and hold harmless each MSG Indemnified Party from and against any liability of MSG for Distribution Taxes to the extent that MSG is not liable for such Taxes pursuant to Section 2.2(b).
     (d) The Companies shall cooperate with each other and use their commercially reasonable efforts to reduce and/or eliminate any Transfer Taxes. If any Transfer Tax remains payable after application of the first sentence of this Section 2.2(d) and notwithstanding any other provision in this Section 2, all Transfer Taxes shall be allocated to Cablevision.
     2.3 . Each Company shall be liable for and shall pay the Taxes allocated to it by this Section 2 either to the applicable Tax Authority or to the other Company in accordance with Section 4 and the other applicable provisions of this Agreement.
Tax Payments
     
SECTION 3. Preparation and Filing of Tax Returns.
     3.1 . Cablevision shall be responsible for preparing and filing (or causing to be prepared and filed) all Combined Returns for any Tax Year, , , that MSG shall have the right to review and comment with respect to items on such returns if and to the extent such items directly relate to Taxes for which MSG would be liable under Section 2.1(b)(i), such comment not to be unreasonably rejected.
Combined Returns
provided
however
     3.2
Separate Returns.
     (a) Cablevision shall be responsible for preparing and filing (or causing to be prepared and filed):
Tax Returns to be Prepared by Cablevision.
 
     (i) all Separate Returns which relate to one or more members of the Cablevision Group for any Tax Year, and
     (ii) all Separate Returns which relate to one or more members of the MSG Group for any Pre-Distribution Period or Straddle Period if such return is in respect of Covered Income Taxes, , , that MSG shall have the right to review and comment with respect to items on such returns if and to the extent such items directly relate to a Tax for which MSG would be liable under Section 2.1(b)(i), such comment not to be unreasonably rejected.
provided
however
     (b) MSG shall be responsible for preparing and filing (or causing to be prepared and filed) all Separate Returns which relate to one or more members of the MSG Group and for which Cablevision is not responsible under Section 3.2(a), , , that in the case of such returns in respect of any Pre-Distribution Period or Straddle Period, Cablevision shall have the right to review and comment on such returns, such comment not to be unreasonably rejected.
Tax Returns to be Prepared by MSG.
provided
however
     3.3 . Subject to the other applicable provisions of this Agreement (including, without limitation, Section 5), MSG irrevocably designates, and agrees to cause each MSG Affiliate so to designate, Cablevision as its sole and exclusive agent and attorney-in-fact to take such action (including execution of documents) as Cablevision may deem reasonably appropriate in matters relating to the preparation or filing of any Tax Return described in Sections 3.1 and 3.2(a)(ii).
Agent
     3.4
Provision of Information.
     (a) Cablevision shall provide to MSG, and MSG shall provide to Cablevision, any information about members of the Cablevision Group or the MSG Group, respectively, that the Preparer reasonably requires to determine the amount of Taxes due on any Payment Date with respect to a Tax Return for which the Preparer is responsible pursuant to Section 3.1 or 3.2 and to properly and timely file all such Tax Returns.
     (b) If a member of the MSG Group supplies information to a member of the Cablevision Group, or a member of the Cablevision Group supplies information to a member of the MSG Group, and an officer of the requesting member intends to sign a statement or other document under penalties of perjury in reliance upon the accuracy of such information, then a duly authorized officer of the member supplying such information shall certify, to the best of such officer's knowledge, the accuracy of the information so supplied.
     3.5
Special Rules Relating to the Preparation of Tax Returns.
     (a) All Tax Returns that include any members of the MSG Group or Cablevision Group, or any of their respective Affiliates, shall be prepared in a manner that is consistent with the Ruling Request, the Ruling, and the Tax Opinion (including, for the avoidance doubt, the Tax Opinion Representations). Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, all Tax Returns for which Cablevision is responsible under Sections 3.1 and 3.2 shall be prepared (x) in accordance with elections, Tax accounting methods and other practices used with respect to such Tax Returns filed prior to the Distribution Date (unless such past practices are not permissible under applicable law), or (y) to the extent any items are not covered by past practices (or in the event such past practices are not permissible under applicable Tax Law), in a manner reasonably acceptable to both Parties; , , that in each case of (x) and (y) to the extent that a change in such elections, methods or practices would not reasonably be expected to result in any adverse impact on MSG, such Tax Returns shall be prepared in accordance with reasonable practices selected by Cablevision.
In General.
provided
however
     (b) . Cablevision shall have the sole discretion in electing to file any Tax Return on a consolidated, combined or unitary basis, if such Tax Return would include at least one member of each Group and the filing of such Tax Return is elective under the relevant Tax Law.
Election to File Consolidated, Combined or Unitary Tax Returns
 
     3.6 .
Refunds, Credits or Offsets
     (a) Any refunds, credits or offsets with respect to Taxes allocated to, and actually paid by, Cablevision pursuant to this Agreement shall be for the account of Cablevision. Any refunds, credits or offsets with respect to Taxes, allocated to, and actually paid by, MSG pursuant to this Agreement shall be for the account of MSG.
     (b) Cablevision shall forward to MSG, or reimburse MSG for, any such refunds, credits or offsets, plus any interest received thereon, net of any Taxes incurred with respect to the receipt or accrual thereof and any expenses incurred in connection therewith, that are for the account of MSG within 15 Business Days from receipt thereof by Cablevision or any of its Affiliates. MSG shall forward to Cablevision, or reimburse Cablevision for, any refunds, credits or offsets, plus any interest received thereon, net of any Taxes incurred with respect to the receipt or accrual thereof and any expenses incurred in connection therewith, that are for the account of Cablevision within 15 Business Days from receipt thereof by MSG or any of its Affiliates. Any refunds, credits or offsets, plus any interest received thereon, or reimbursements not forwarded or made within the 15 Business Day period specified above shall bear interest from the date received by the refunding or reimbursing party (or its Affiliates) through and including the date of payment at the Interest Rate (treating the date received as the Due Date for purposes of determining such interest). If, subsequent to a Tax Authority's allowance of a refund, credit or offset, such Tax Authority reduces or eliminates such allowance, any refund, credit or offset, plus any interest received thereon, forwarded or reimbursed under this Section 3.6 shall be returned to the party who had forwarded or reimbursed such refund, credit or offset and interest upon the request of such forwarding party in an amount equal to the applicable reduction, including any interest received thereon.
     3.7 To the extent permitted under applicable Tax Laws, the MSG Group shall make the appropriate elections in respect of any Tax Returns to waive any option to carry back any net operating loss, any credits or any similar item from a Post-Distribution Period to any Pre-Distribution Period or to any Straddle Period. Any refund of or credit for Taxes resulting from any such carryback by a member of the MSG Group that cannot be waived shall be payable to MSG net of any Taxes incurred with respect to the receipt or accrual thereof and any expenses incurred in connection therewith.
Carrybacks.
     3.8 Any amended Tax Return or claim for Tax refund, credit or offset with respect to any member of the MSG Group may be made only by the Company (or its Affiliates) responsible for preparing the original Tax Return with respect to such member pursuant to Sections 3.1 or 3.2 (and, for the avoidance of doubt, subject to the same review and comment rights set forth in Sections 3.1 or 3.2, to the extent applicable). Such Company (or its Affiliates) shall not, without the prior written consent of the other Company (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), file, or cause to be filed, any such amended Tax Return or claim for Tax refund, credit or offset to the extent that such filing, if accepted, is likely to increase the Taxes allocated to, or the Tax indemnity obligations under this Agreement of, such other Company for any Tax Year (or portion thereof); , , that such consent need not be obtained if the Company filing the amended Tax Return by written notice to the other Company agrees to indemnify the other Company for the incremental Taxes allocated to, or the incremental Tax indemnity obligation resulting under this Agreement to, such other Company as a result of the filing of such amended Tax Return.
Amended Returns.
provided
however
     3.9 Matters relating to Taxes and/or Tax Items with respect to Compensatory Equity Interests shall be governed by the Employee Matters Agreement.
Compensatory Equity Interests.
     
SECTION 4. Tax Payments.
     4.1 Cablevision shall be responsible for remitting to the proper Tax Authority the Tax shown on any Tax Return for which it is responsible for the preparation and filing pursuant to Section 3.1 or Section 3.2, and MSG shall be responsible for remitting to the proper Tax Authority the Tax shown on any Tax Return for which it is responsible for the preparation and filing pursuant to Section 3.2.
Payment of Taxes to Tax Authority.
     4.2
Indemnification Payments.
 
     (a) If any member of the Cablevision Group is required to make a payment to a Tax Authority for Taxes allocated to MSG under this Agreement, MSG will pay the amount of Taxes allocated to it to Cablevision not later than the later of (i) five Business Days after receiving notification requesting such amount, and (ii) one Business Day prior to the date such payment is required to be made to such Tax Authority.
Tax Payments Made by the Cablevision Group.
     (b) If any member of the MSG Group is required to make a payment to a Tax Authority for Taxes allocated to Cablevision under this Agreement, Cablevision will pay the amount of Taxes allocated to it to MSG not later than the later of (i) five Business Days after receiving notification requesting such amount, and (ii) one Business Day prior to the date such payment is required to be made to such Tax Authority.
Tax Payments Made by the MSG Group.
     4.3 Payments pursuant to this Agreement that are not made by the date prescribed in this Agreement or, if no such date is prescribed, not later than five Business Days after demand for payment is made (the "") shall bear interest for the period from and including the date immediately following the Due Date through and including the date of payment at the Interest Rate. Such interest will be payable at the same time as the payment to which it relates. Interest will be calculated on the basis of a year of 365 days and the actual number of days for which due.
Interest on Late Payments.
Due Date
     4.4 For all Tax purposes and to the extent permitted by applicable Tax Law, the parties hereto shall treat any payment made pursuant to this Agreement as a capital contribution or a distribution, as the case may be, immediately prior to the Distribution. If the receipt or accrual of any indemnity payment under this Agreement causes, directly or indirectly, an increase in the taxable income of the recipient under one or more applicable Tax Laws, such payment shall be increased so that, after the payment of any Taxes with respect to the payment, the recipient thereof shall have realized the same net amount it would have realized had the payment not resulted in taxable income. For the avoidance of doubt, any liability for Taxes due to an increase in taxable income described in the immediately preceding sentence shall be governed by this Section 4.4 and not by Section 2.2. To the extent that Taxes for which any Party hereto (the "") is required to pay another Party (the "") pursuant to this Agreement may be deducted or credited in determining the amount of any other Taxes required to be paid by the Indemnified Party (for example, state Taxes which are permitted to be deducted in determining federal Taxes), the amount of any payment made to the Indemnified Party by the Indemnifying Party shall be decreased by taking into account any resulting reduction in other Taxes actually realized by the Indemnified Party. If such a reduction in Taxes of the Indemnified Party occurs following the payment made to the Indemnified Party with respect to the relevant indemnified Taxes, the Indemnified Party shall promptly repay the Indemnifying Party the amount of such reduction when actually realized. If the Tax Benefit arising from the foregoing reduction of Taxes described in this Section 4.4 is subsequently decreased or eliminated, then the Indemnifying Party shall promptly pay the Indemnified Party the amount of the decrease in such Tax Benefit.
Tax Consequences of Payments.
Indemnifying Party
Indemnified Party
     4.5 In the event that Section 355(d) or 355(e) of the Code applies to the Distribution as a result of a Final Determination, and if the proposed Treasury Regulations under Section 336(e) of the Code and published at 73 Fed. Reg. 49965-81 (or similar Treasury Regulations) have been adopted as final, Cablevision agrees (if so requested by MSG in a written notice) to make an election (if Cablevision is legally able to do so) pursuant to such final Treasury Regulations to treat the Distribution as an asset sale for U.S. federal tax purposes, that MSG shall indemnify Cablevision for any cost to the Cablevision Group of making such an election (but it being understood that any such cost arising from Taxes shall be limited to Excess Taxes).
Section 336(e) Election.
provided
     4.6 If an adjustment (a "") pursuant to a Final Determination in a Tax Contest initiated by a Tax Authority results in a Tax greater than the Tax shown on the relevant Tax Return for any Pre-Distribution Period, the Indemnified Party shall pay to the Indemnifying Party an amount equal to any Tax Benefit as and when actually realized by such Indemnified Party as a result of such Tax Adjustment. The Parties agree that if an Indemnified Party is required to make a payment to an Indemnifying Party pursuant to this Section 4.6, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to set off the amount of such payment against any indemnity payments owed by the Indemnifying Party to the Indemnified Party, taking into account time value and similar concepts as appropriate.
Certain Final Determinations.
Tax Adjustment
 
     
SECTION 5. Cooperation and Tax Contests.
     5.1 In addition to the obligations enumerated in Sections 3.4 and 5.4, Cablevision and MSG will cooperate (and cause their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates to cooperate) with each other and with each other's agents, including accounting firms and legal counsel, in connection with Tax matters, including provision of relevant documents and information in their possession and making available to each other, as reasonably requested and available, personnel (including officers, directors, employees and agents of the Parties or their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates) responsible for preparing, maintaining, and interpreting information and documents relevant to Taxes, and personnel reasonably required as witnesses or for purposes of providing information or documents in connection with any administrative or judicial proceedings relating to Taxes.
Cooperation.
     5.2 Each Company shall provide prompt notice to the other Company of any pending or threatened Tax audit, assessment or proceeding or other Tax Contest of which it becomes aware relating to (i) Taxes for which it is or may be indemnified by such other Company hereunder or (ii) Tax Items that may affect the amount or treatment of Tax Items of such other Company. Such notice shall contain factual information (to the extent known) describing any asserted Tax liability in reasonable detail and shall be accompanied by copies of any notice and other documents received from any Tax Authority in respect of any such matters; , , that failure to give such notification shall not affect the indemnification provided hereunder except, and only to the extent that, the indemnifying Company shall have been actually prejudiced as a result of such failure. Thereafter, the indemnified Company shall deliver to the indemnifying Company such additional information with respect to such Tax Contest in its possession that the indemnifying Company may reasonably request.
Notices of Tax Contests.
provided
however
     5.3
Control of Tax Contests.
     (a) Subject to the limitations set forth in Section 5.3(b), each Preparer (or the appropriate member of its Group) shall be the Controlling Party with respect to any Tax Contest involving a Tax reported (or that, it is asserted, should have been reported) on a Tax Return for which such Company is responsible for preparing and filing (or causing to be prepared and filed) pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement (it being understood, for the avoidance of doubt but subject to the other provisions of this Section 5.3(a), that Cablevision shall be the Controlling Party with respect to any Tax Contest involving Distribution Taxes), in which case any Non-Preparer that could have liability under this Agreement for a Tax to which such Tax Contest relates shall be treated as the "Non-Controlling Party." Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, if a Non-Preparer (x) acknowledges to the Preparer in writing its full liability under this Agreement to indemnify for any Tax, and (y) provides to the Preparer evidence (that is satisfactory to the Preparer as determined in the Preparer's reasonable discretion) of the Non-Preparer's financial readiness and capacity to make such indemnity payment, then thereafter with respect to the Tax Contest relating solely to such Tax the Non-Preparer shall be the Controlling Party (subject to Section 5.3(b)) and the Preparer shall be treated as the Non-Controlling Party.
Controlling Party.
     (b) With respect to a Tax Contest of any Tax Return that could result in a Tax liability that is allocated under this Agreement, (i) the Non-Controlling Party shall, at its own cost and expense, be entitled to participate in such Tax Contest and to provide comments and suggestions to the Controlling Party, such comments and suggestions not to be unreasonably rejected, (ii) the Controlling Party shall keep the Non-Controlling Party updated and informed, and shall consult with the Non-Controlling Party, (iii) the Controlling Party shall act in good faith with a view to the merits in connection with the Tax Contest, and (iv) the Controlling Party shall not settle or compromise such Tax Contest without the prior written consent of the Non-Controlling Party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld).
Non-Controlling Party Participation Rights.
     5.4 The Parties shall provide each other with all information relating to a Tax Contest which is needed by the other Party or Parties to handle, participate in, defend, settle or contest the Tax Contest. At the request of any party, the other Parties shall take any action (, executing a power of attorney) that is reasonably necessary in order for the requesting Party to exercise its rights under this Agreement in respect of a Tax Contest. MSG shall assist Cablevision, and Cablevision shall assist MSG, in taking any remedial actions that are necessary or desirable to minimize the effects of any adjustment made by a Tax Authority. The
Cooperation Regarding Tax Contests.
e.g.
 
Indemnifying Party or Parties shall reimburse the Indemnified Party or Parties for any reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in complying with this Section 5.4.
     
SECTION 6. Tax Records.
     6.1 Each of Cablevision and MSG shall preserve, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries to preserve, all Tax Records that are in their possession, and that could affect the liability of any member of the other Group for Taxes, for as long as the contents thereof may become material in the administration of any matter under applicable Tax Law, but in any event until the later of (x) the expiration of any applicable statute of limitations, as extended, and (y) seven years after the Distribution Date.
Retention of Tax Records.
     6.2 MSG shall make available, and cause its Subsidiaries to make available, to members of the Cablevision Group for inspection and copying (x) all Tax Records in their possession that relate to a Pre-Distribution Period, and (y) the portion of any Tax Record in their possession that relates to a Post-Distribution Period and which is reasonably necessary for the preparation of a Tax Return by a member of the Cablevision Group or any of their Affiliates or with respect to any Tax Contest with respect to such return. Cablevision shall make available, and cause its Subsidiaries to make available, to members of the MSG Group for inspection and copying the portion of any Tax Record in their possession that relates to a Pre-Distribution Period and which is reasonably necessary for the preparation of a Tax Return by a member of the MSG Group or any of their Affiliates or with respect to any Tax Contest with respect to such return.
Access to Tax Records.
     6.3 Each party hereby agrees that it will hold, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause its officers, directors, employees, accountants, counsel, consultants, advisors and agents to hold, in confidence all records and information prepared and shared by and among the Parties in carrying out the intent of this Agreement, except as may otherwise be necessary in connection with the filing of Tax Returns or any administrative or judicial proceedings relating to Taxes or unless disclosure is compelled by a governmental authority. Information and documents of one Party (the "") shall not be deemed to be confidential for purposes of this Section 6.3 to the extent that such information or document (i) is previously known to or in the possession of the other Party or Parties (the "") and is not otherwise subject to a requirement to be kept confidential, (ii) becomes publicly available by means other than unauthorized disclosure under this Agreement by the Receiving Party or (iii) is received from a third party without, to the knowledge of the Receiving Party after reasonable diligence, a duty of confidentiality owed to the Disclosing Party.
Confidentiality.
Disclosing Party
Receiving Party
     
SECTION 7. Representations and Covenants.
     7.1
Covenants of Cablevision and MSG.
     (a) Cablevision hereby covenants that, to the fullest extent permissible under United States federal income and state Tax Laws, it will, and will cause the members of the Cablevision Group to, treat the Contribution and Distribution in accordance with the Tax-Free Status. MSG hereby covenants that, to the fullest extent permissible under United States federal income and state Tax Laws, it will, and will cause each Subsidiary of MSG to, treat the Contribution and Distribution in accordance with the Tax-Free Status.
     (b) Cablevision further covenants that, as of and following the date hereof, Cablevision shall not and shall cause the members of the Cablevision Group not to take any action that (or fail to take any action the omission of which) (i) would be inconsistent with the Contribution and Distribution qualifying, or would preclude the Contribution and Distribution from qualifying, for the Tax-Free Status, or (ii) would cause any holders of Cablevision Common Stock that receive stock of MSG in the Distribution to recognize gain or loss, or otherwise include any amount in income, as a result of the Contribution and/or the Distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes (except with respect to cash received in lieu of fractional shares).
     (c) MSG further covenants that, as of and following the date hereof, MSG shall not and shall cause its Subsidiaries not to take any action that (or fail to take any action the omission of which) (i) would be inconsistent with the Contribution and Distribution qualifying, or would preclude the Contribution and
 
Distribution from qualifying, for the Tax-Free Status, or (ii) would cause any holders of Cablevision Common Stock that receive stock of MSG in the Distribution to recognize gain or loss, or otherwise include any amount in income, as a result of the Contribution and/or the Distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes (except with respect to cash received in lieu of fractional shares).
     7.2 Cablevision represents that it has provided MSG with a copy of the Ruling and the Ruling Request submitted on or prior to the Distribution Date, and agrees to provide MSG with copies of any additional documents submitted to the IRS relating to the Ruling Request and prepared after the Distribution Date prior to the submission of such documents to the IRS in connection with the Distribution.
Private Letter Ruling.
     7.3
Covenants of MSG.
     (a) Without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 7.1, MSG, on behalf of itself and its Subsidiaries, agrees and covenants that MSG and each of its Subsidiaries will not, directly or indirectly, during the Restriction Period, (i) take any action that would result in MSG's ceasing to be engaged in the active conduct of the MSG Business with the result that MSG is not engaged in the active conduct of a trade or business within the meaning of Section 355(b)(2) of the Code, (ii) redeem or otherwise repurchase (directly or through an Affiliate of MSG) any of MSG's outstanding stock, other than through stock purchases meeting the requirements of section 4.05(1)(b) of Revenue Procedure 96-30, 1996-1 C.B. 696 (but it being understood, for the avoidance of doubt, that no agreement or covenant under this Section 7.3(a)(ii) is being entered with respect to Compensatory Equity Net Share Settlements), (iii) amend the certificate of incorporation (or other organizational documents) of MSG that would affect the relative voting rights of separate classes of MSG's stock or would convert one class of MSG's stock into another class of its stock, (iv) liquidate (within the meaning of Section 331 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder) or partially liquidate (within the meaning of Section 346 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder) MSG, (v) merge MSG with any other corporation (other than in a transaction that does not affect the relative shareholding of MSG shareholders), sell or otherwise dispose of (other than in the ordinary course of business) the assets of MSG and its Subsidiaries, or take any other action or actions if such merger, sale, other disposition or other action or actions in the aggregate would have the effect that one or more Persons acquire (or have the right to acquire), directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions, assets representing one-half or more of the asset value of the MSG Group, or (vi) take any other action or actions that in the aggregate would have the effect that one or more Persons acquire (or have the right to acquire), directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions, stock of MSG representing a Fifty-Percent Equity Interest in MSG, other than a Permitted Acquisition.
     7.4
Covenants of Cablevision.
     (a) Without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 7.1, Cablevision, on behalf of itself and each member of the Cablevision Group, agrees and covenants that Cablevision and each member of the Cablevision Group will not, directly or indirectly, during the Restriction Period, (i) take any action that would result in Cablevision's ceasing to be engaged in the active conduct of the Cablevision Business with the result that Cablevision is not engaged in the active conduct of a trade or business within the meaning of Section 355(b)(2) of the Code, (ii) redeem or otherwise repurchase (directly or through an Affiliate of Cablevision) any of Cablevision's outstanding stock, other than through stock purchases meeting the requirements of section 4.05(1)(b) of Revenue Procedure 96-30, 1996-1 C.B. 696 (but it being understood, for the avoidance of doubt, that no agreement or covenant under this Section 7.4(a)(ii) is being entered with respect to Compensatory Equity Net Share Settlements), (iii) amend the certificate of incorporation (or other organizational documents) of Cablevision that would affect the relative voting rights of separate classes of Cablevision's stock or would convert one class of Cablevision's stock into another class of its stock, (iv) liquidate (within the meaning of Section 331 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder) or partially liquidate (within the meaning of Section 346 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder) Cablevision, (v) merge Cablevision with any other corporation (other than in a transaction that does not affect the relative shareholding of Cablevision shareholders), sell or otherwise dispose of (other than in the ordinary course of business) the assets of Cablevision and its Subsidiaries, or take any other action or actions if such merger, sale, other disposition
 
or other action or actions in the aggregate would have the effect that one or more Persons acquire (or have the right to acquire), directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions, assets representing one-half or more of the asset value of the Cablevision Group, or (vi) take any other action or actions that in the aggregate would have the effect that one or more Persons acquire (or have the right to acquire), directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions, stock of Cablevision representing a Fifty-Percent Equity Interest in Cablevision.
     (b) Nothing in this Section 7 shall be construed to give MSG or any Affiliates of MSG any right to remedies other than indemnification for any increase in the actual Tax liability (and/or decrease in Tax Benefit) of MSG or any Affiliate of MSG that results from Cablevision Group's failure to comply with the covenants and representations in this Section 7.
     7.5
Exceptions.
     (a) Notwithstanding Section 7.3 above, MSG or any of its Subsidiaries may take a Restricted Action if Cablevision consents in writing to such Restricted Action, or if MSG provides Cablevision with Satisfactory Guidance concluding that such Restricted Action will not alter the Tax-Free Status of the Contribution and Distribution in respect of Cablevision and Cablevision's shareholders.
     (b) MSG and each of its Subsidiaries agree that Cablevision and each Cablevision Affiliate are to have no liability for any Tax resulting from any Restricted Actions permitted pursuant to this Section 7.5 and, subject to Section 2.2, agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Cablevision Indemnified Party against any such Tax. MSG shall bear all costs incurred by it, and all reasonable costs incurred by Cablevision, in connection with requesting and/or obtaining any Satisfactory Guidance.
     7.6 For the avoidance of doubt, Cablevision shall have the right to seek injunctive relief to prevent MSG or any of its Subsidiaries from taking any action that is not consistent with the covenants of the MSG or any of its Subsidiaries under Section 7.1 or 7.3.
Injunctive Relief.
     7.7 . For the avoidance of doubt, (i) neither Cablevision nor a member of the Cablevision Group shall take any action on the Distribution Date that would result in an increase of the actual Tax liability (and/or decrease of any Tax Benefit) of MSG or any of its Subsidiaries, other than in the ordinary course of business, except for actions undertaken in connection with the Distribution, which actions are described in the Ruling Request or the Ruling, and (ii) neither MSG nor any of its Subsidiaries shall take any action on the Distribution Date that would result in an increase of the actual Tax liability (and/or decrease of any Tax Benefit) of Cablevision or a member of the Cablevision Group, other than in the ordinary course of business, except for actions undertaken in connection with the Distribution, which actions are described in the Ruling Request or the Ruling.
Further Assurances
     
SECTION 8. General Provisions.
     8.1 Any reference to Cablevision, MSG, a Person, or a Subsidiary in this Agreement shall include any predecessors or successors (, by merger or other reorganization, liquidation, conversion, or election under Treasury Regulations Section 301.7701-3) of Cablevision, MSG, such Person, or such Subsidiary, respectively, including within the meaning of Section 355(e)(4)(D) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
Predecessors or Successors.
e.g.
     8.2 . This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement (except insofar and to the extent that it specifically and expressly references the Distribution Agreement and any other Ancillary Agreement) between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all previous negotiations, commitments and writings with respect to such subject matter.
Construction
     8.3 This Agreement is not intended to address, and should not be interpreted to address, the matters specifically and expressly covered by the Distribution Agreement or any other Ancillary Agreement.
Ancillary Agreements.
 
     8.4 This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more such counterparts have been signed by each of the Parties and delivered to the other Party.
Counterparts.
     8.5 All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing, shall reference this Agreement and shall be hand delivered or mailed by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) to the Parties at the following addresses (or at such other addresses for a Party as shall be specified by like notice) and will be deemed given on the date on which such notice is received:
Notices.
To Cablevision:
Cablevision Systems Corporation 1111 Stewart Avenue Bethpage, NY 11714 Attention: General Counsel
To MSG:
Madison Square Garden, Inc. Two Penn Plaza New York, NY 10001 Attention: General Counsel
     8.6 This Agreement may not be modified or amended except by an agreement in writing signed by each of the Parties.
Amendments.
     8.7 This Agreement shall not be assignable, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by any Party without the prior written consent of the other Party, and any attempt to assign any rights or obligations arising under this Agreement without such consent shall be void; that either Party may assign this Agreement to a purchaser of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of such Party so long as such purchaser expressly assumes, in a written instrument in form reasonably satisfactory to the non-assigning Party, the due and punctual performance or observance of every agreement and covenant of this Agreement on the part of the assigning Party to be performed or observed.
Assignment.
provided
     8.8 The provisions to this Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Successors and Assigns.
     8.9 Any reference to a provision of the Code or any other Tax Law shall include a reference to any applicable successor provision or law.
Change in Law.
     8.10 Each of the Parties hereto hereby represents and warrants that it has the power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement, that this Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of such Party, that this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Party and that the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by such Party does not contravene or conflict with any provision of law or the Party's charter or bylaws or any agreement, instrument or order binding such Party.
Authorization, Etc.
     8.11 This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Distribution by and in the sole discretion of Cablevision without the approval of MSG or the stockholders of Cablevision. In the event of such termination, no Party shall have any liability of any kind to any other Party or any other Person. After the Distribution, this Agreement may not be terminated except by an agreement in writing signed by the Parties.
Termination.
     8.12 Each of the Parties shall cause to be performed, and hereby guarantees the performance of, all actions, agreements and obligations set forth herein to be performed by any entity that is contemplated to be a Subsidiary of such Party after the Distribution Date.
Subsidiaries.
 
     8.13 Except with respect to Cablevision Indemnified Parties and MSG Indemnified Parties, and in each case, only where and as indicated herein, this Agreement is solely for the benefit of the Parties and their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates and should not be deemed to confer upon any other Person any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement, cause of action or other right in excess of those existing without reference to this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, this Agreement is not intended to confer upon any MSG Indemnified Parties any rights or remedies against MSG hereunder, and this Agreement is not intended to confer upon any Cablevision Indemnified Parties any rights or remedies against Cablevision hereunder.
Third-Party Beneficiaries.
     8.14 Titles and headings to Sections herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be a part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Titles and Headings.
     8.15 This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York.
Governing Law.
     8.16 The Parties hereby irrevocably waive any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or related to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
Waiver of Jury Trial.
     8.17 In the event any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and therein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. The Parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions, the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
Severability.
     8.18
No Strict Construction; Interpretation.
     (a) Each of Cablevision and MSG acknowledges that this Agreement has been prepared jointly by the Parties hereto and shall not be strictly construed against any Party hereto.
     (b) The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include", "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation". The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. All terms defined in this Agreement shall have the defined meanings when used in any certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto unless otherwise defined therein. The definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms and to the masculine as well as to the feminine and neuter genders of such term. Any agreement, instrument or statute defined or referred to herein or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such agreement, instrument or statute as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including (in the case of agreements or instruments) by waiver or consent and (in the case of statutes) by succession of comparable successor statutes and references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein. References to a Person are also to its permitted successors and assigns.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by the respective officers as of the date set forth above.

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 
 
Exhibits
 
     (the ""), dated as of January 12, 2010, is by and between Cablevision Systems Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), and Madison Square Garden, Inc., a Delaware corporation and an indirect subsidiary of CVC ("," and, together with CVC, each, a "" and collectively, the "").
THIS EMPLOYEE MATTERS AGREEMENT
Agreement
CVC
MSG
Party
Parties
     , the Board of Directors of CVC has determined that it is in the best interests of CVC to separate the MSG Business and the CVC Business into two independent public companies, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Distribution Agreement (as defined below);
WHEREAS
     , in order to effectuate the foregoing, CVC and MSG have entered into a Distribution Agreement, dated as of January 12, 2010, as amended (the ""), pursuant to which and subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, the MSG Business shall be separated from the CVC Business, and all of the issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of MSG and Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of MSG (collectively, the "") beneficially owned by CVC shall be distributed (the "") on a pro rata basis to the holders of the issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of CVC and Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of CVC (collectively, the ""); and
WHEREAS
Distribution Agreement
MSG Common Stock
Distribution
CVC Common Stock
     , CVC and MSG have agreed to enter into this Agreement for the purpose of allocating Assets, Liabilities and responsibilities with respect to certain employee compensation and benefit plans, programs and arrangements, and certain employment matters between and among them.
WHEREAS
     , , in consideration of the premises and of the respective agreements and covenants contained in this Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
NOW
THEREFORE
     . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Section 1.1
Definitions
     "" means any claim, demand, complaint, charge, action, cause of action, suit, countersuit, arbitration, litigation, inquiry, proceeding or investigation by or before any Governmental Authority or any arbitration or mediation tribunal.
Action
     "" means, when used with respect to any specified Person, a Person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with such specified Person. As used herein, "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or
Affiliate
control
 
cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other interests, by contract or otherwise.
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the preamble to this Agreement, including all the exhibits hereto, and all amendments made hereto from time to time.
Agreement
     "" means any right, property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, tangible or intangible, of any kind, nature and description, whether accrued, contingent or otherwise, and wheresoever situated and whether or not carried or reflected, or required to be carried or reflected, on the books of any Person.
Asset
     "" means the trust maintained to pay benefits under the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan.
Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust
     "" means all Liabilities assumed or retained by any member of the CVC Group pursuant to this Agreement.
Cablevision Liabilities
     "" means, collectively, the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan, Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan, Cablevision Excess Cash Balance Plan and Cablevision Excess Savings Plan.
Cablevision Retirement Plans
     "" means the continuation coverage requirements for "group health plans" under Title X of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended, and as codified in Section 4980B of the Code and Sections 601 through 608 of ERISA.
COBRA
     "" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     "" means, as to any Person, the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other interests, by contract or otherwise.
Control
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the preamble to this Agreement.
CVC
     "" means the actuary regularly engaged by CVC for the purposes of providing actuarial services relative to the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan.
CVC Actuary
     "" means the amount of assets of the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust to be retained by the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust as of January 1, 2010.
CVC Allocation
     "" means all businesses and operations conducted by the CVC Group from time to time, whether prior to, at or after the Distribution Date, other than the MSG Business. For the avoidance of doubt, the business of Fuse shall be deemed to be part of the MSG Business only from and after CVC's contribution of that business to MSG on June 2, 2008 and part of the CVC Business prior thereto.
CVC Business
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals to this Agreement.
CVC Common Stock
 
     "" means any individual who is a current or former director of CVC as of the Distribution Date.
CVC Director
     "" means any individual who, immediately following the Distribution Date, will be employed by CVC or any member of the CVC Group in a capacity considered by CVC to be common law employment, including active employees and employees on vacation and approved leaves of absence (including maternity, paternity, family, sick, short-term or long-term disability leave, qualified military service under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, and leave under the Family Medical Leave Act and other approved leaves).
CVC Employee
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in of this Agreement.
CVC Flexible Spending Accounts Plan
Section 6.2
     "" means, as of the Distribution Date, CVC and each of its former and current Subsidiaries (or any predecessor organization thereof), and any corporation or entity that may become part of such Group from time to time thereafter. The CVC Group shall not include any member of the MSG Group. For the avoidance of doubt, the business of Fuse shall be deemed to be part of the MSG Group only from and after CVC's contribution of that business to MSG on June 2, 2008 and part of the CVC Group prior thereto.
CVC Group
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in of this Agreement.
CVC Health & Welfare Plans
Section 6.1(a)
     "" means an option to buy Cablevision Class A Common Stock granted pursuant to a CVC Share Plan (including the options adjusted for the Distribution) and outstanding as of the Distribution Date.
CVC Option
     "" means any individual who, immediately following the Distribution Date, is a CVC Employee, a Former CVC Employee or a beneficiary, dependent or alternate payee of any of the foregoing.
CVC Participant
     "" means any Plan sponsored, maintained or contributed to by CVC or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, including the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan, Cablevision Excess Cash Balance Plan, Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan, Cablevision Excess Savings Plan, CVC Share Plans, CVC Flexible Spending Accounts Plan, and CVC Health & Welfare Plans.
CVC Plan
     "" means unvested restricted shares of Cablevision Class A Common Stock granted pursuant to a CVC Share Plan and outstanding as of the Distribution Date.
CVC Restricted Stock
     "" means a restricted stock unit representing an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver a share of Cablevision Class A Common Stock, or cash or other property equal in value to the share of Cablevision Class A Common Stock, that is granted pursuant to a CVC Share Plan and outstanding as of the Distribution Date.
CVC RSU
 
     "" means a stock appreciation right with respect to Cablevision Class A Common Stock granted pursuant to a CVC Share Plan (including the stock appreciation rights adjusted for the Distribution) and outstanding as of the Distribution Date.
CVC SAR
     "" means, collectively, any stock option or stock incentive compensation plan or arrangement, including equity award agreements, maintained before the Distribution Date for employees, officers or non-employee directors of CVC or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, as amended.
CVC Share Plans
     "" means the unitized stock fund investment option offered under the Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan, with a value based on the value of CVC Common Stock and the cash liquidity component.
CVC Stock Investment Option
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals to this Agreement, as the same is further described in the Distribution Agreement.
Distribution
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals to this Agreement.
Distribution Agreement
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Distribution Agreement.
Distribution Date
     "" means the U.S. Department of Labor.
DOL
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in of this Agreement.
Effective Date
Section 6.1(a)
     "" means, collectively, the CVC Options, CVC Restricted Stock, CVC SARs, CVC RSUs, MSG Options, MSG SARs and MSG Dividend Shares.
Equity Compensation
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
     "" means any former employee of any member of the CVC Group. Any individual who is an employee of any member of the MSG Group on the Distribution Date or a Former MSG Employee shall not be a Former CVC Employee.
Former CVC Employee
     "" means any former employee of any member of the MSG Group. Any individual who is an employee of any member of the CVC Group on the Distribution Date or a Former CVC Employee shall not be a Former MSG Employee.
Former MSG Employee
     "" means any federal, state, local, foreign or international court, government, department, commission, board, bureau, agency, official, the NYSE, NASDAQ or other regulatory, administrative or governmental authority.
Governmental Authority
     "" means the CVC Group and/or the MSG Group, as the context requires.
Group
     "" means the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended.
HIPAA
 
     "" shall mean all information, whether in written, oral, electronic or other tangible or intangible form, stored in any medium, including non-public financial information, studies, reports, records, books, accountants' work papers, contracts, instruments, flow charts, data, communications by or to attorneys, memos and other materials prepared by attorneys and accountants or under their direction (including attorney work product) and other financial, legal, employee or business information or data.
Information
     "" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
     "" means all laws, statutes and ordinances and all regulations, rules and other pronouncements of Governmental Authorities having the effect of law of the U.S., any foreign country, or any domestic or foreign state, province, commonwealth, city, country, municipality, territory, protectorate, possession or similar instrumentality, or any Governmental Authority thereof.
Law
     "" means all debts, liabilities, obligations, responsibilities, Losses, damages (whether compensatory, punitive, or treble), fines, penalties and sanctions, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, foreseen or unforeseen, joint, several or individual, asserted or unasserted, accrued or unaccrued, known or unknown, whenever arising, including without limitation those arising under or in connection with any Law, Action, threatened Action, order or consent decree of any Governmental Authority or any award of any arbitration tribunal, and those arising under any contract, guarantee, commitment or undertaking, whether sought to be imposed by a Governmental Authority, private party, or a Party, whether based in contract, tort, implied or express warranty, strict liability, criminal or civil statute, or otherwise, and including any costs, expenses, interest, attorneys' fees, disbursements and expense of counsel, expert and consulting fees, fees of third-party administrators and costs related thereto or to the investigation or defense thereof.
Liabilities
     "" means any claim, demand, complaint, damages (whether compensatory, punitive, consequential, treble or other), fines, penalties, loss, liability, payment, cost or expense arising out of, relating to or in connection with any Action.
Loss
     "" means Section 414() of the Code, including such provisions of the ERISA as may be incorporated by reference therein, and regulations and other administrative guidance promulgated under Section 414() of the Code and provisions of ERISA incorporated therein.
Minimum Standards
l
l
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the preamble to this Agreement.
MSG
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in of this Agreement.
MSG 401(k) Savings Plan
Section 4.1(a)
     "" means such actuarial firm as MSG may engage.
MSG Actuary
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in term (1) of Exhibit A.
MSG Allocation
     "" means all businesses and operations conducted by the MSG Group from time to time, whether prior to, at or after the Distribution Date, including the businesses and
MSG Business
 
operations conducted by the MSG Group as more fully described in the MSG Information Statement and excluding the CVC Business. For the avoidance of doubt, the business of Fuse shall be deemed to be part of the MSG Business only from and after CVC's contribution of that business to MSG on June 2, 2008 and part of the CVC Business prior thereto.
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in of this Agreement.
MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan
Section 3.1(a)
     "" shall mean:
MSG Cash Balance Plan Participants
     (i) any individual who is employed in the MSG Business and who had satisfied the requirements for participation in the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan prior to January 1, 2010;
     (ii) any individual who is an MSG Employee eligible for, but not yet participating in, the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan as of January 1, 2010;
     (iii) any individual who is first employed by the MSG Group subsequent to the Distribution Date and who meets the requirements for participation in the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan;
     (iv) any Former MSG Employee whose latest employment with CVC or Subsidiary or Affiliate was with the MSG Business, and who was either in receipt of periodic payments from the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan or who had earned a vested right to a deferred benefit from the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan as of December 31, 2009; or
     (v) any beneficiary or alternate payee of an individual described in clauses (i), (ii), (iii), or (iv), and any beneficiary or alternate payee of an individual who had died prior to December 31, 2009, but who would have been described in clause (iv), if he had then been living.
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in of this Agreement.
MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust
Section 3.1(a)
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the recitals to this Agreement.
MSG Common Stock
     "" means shares of MSG Class A Common Stock issued to the beneficial owners of CVC Restricted Stock in connection with the Distribution and subject to the same conditions and restrictions as the CVC Restricted Stock.
MSG Dividend Shares
     "" means any individual who, immediately following the Distribution Date, will be employed by MSG or any member of the MSG Group in a capacity considered by MSG to be common law employment, including active employees and employees on vacation and approved leaves of absence (including maternity, paternity, family, sick, short-term or long-term disability leave, qualified military service under the Uniformed Services Employment and
MSG Employee
 
Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, and leave under the Family Medical Leave Act and other approved leaves).
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in .
MSG Excess Cash Balance Plan
Section 5.1(a)
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in .
MSG Excess Savings Plan
Section 5.3(a)
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in of this Agreement.
MSG Flexible Spending Accounts Plan
Section 6.2
     "" means, as of the Distribution Date, MSG and each of its former and current Subsidiaries (or any predecessor organization thereof), and any corporation or entity that may become part of such Group from time to time thereafter. The MSG Group shall not include any member of the CVC Group. For the avoidance of doubt, the business of Fuse shall be deemed to be part of the MSG Group only from and after CVC's contribution of that business to MSG on June 2, 2008 and part of the CVC Group prior thereto.
MSG Group
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in of this Agreement.
MSG Health & Welfare Plans
Section 6.1(a)
     "" means the definitive information statement distributed to holders of CVC Common Stock in connection with the Distribution and filed with the SEC as Exhibit 99.1 to the Registration Statement or as an exhibit to a Form 8-K of MSG.
MSG Information Statement
     "" means all Liabilities assumed or retained by any member of the MSG Group pursuant to this Agreement.
MSG Liabilities
     "" means an option to buy MSG Class A Common Stock granted pursuant to a MSG Share Plan and granted in connection with the Distribution.
MSG Option
     "" means any individual who, immediately following the Distribution Date, is a MSG Employee, a Former MSG Employee or a beneficiary, dependent or alternate payee of any of the foregoing.
MSG Participant
     "" means any Plan sponsored, maintained or contributed to by any member of the MSG Group, including the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan, MSG Excess Cash Balance Plan, MSG 401(k) Savings Plan, MSG Excess Savings Plan, MSG Share Plans, MSG Flexible Spending Accounts Plan, MSG Retained Retirement Plans, the Madison Square Garden Retiree Medical Program, MSG Health & Welfare Plans and MSG Retained Multi-Employer Benefit Plans.
MSG Plan
     "" means the multi-employer plans that are listed on Exhibit C.
MSG Retained Multi-Employer Benefit Plans
     "" means the retirement plans that are listed on Exhibit B.
MSG Retained Retirement Plans
 
     "" means, collectively, the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan, MSG 401(k) Savings Plan, MSG Excess Cash Balance Plan and MSG Excess Savings Plan.
MSG Retirement Plans
     "" means a stock appreciation right with respect to MSG Class A Common Stock granted pursuant to a MSG Share Plan and granted in connection with the Distribution.
MSG SAR
     "" means the Madison Square Garden Inc. 2010 Employee Stock Plan, Madison Square Garden Inc. 2010 Stock Plan For Non-Employee Directors and any stock plan or stock incentive arrangement, including equity award agreements, entered into by MSG in connection with the Distribution.
MSG Share Plan
     "" means the unitized stock fund investment option to be offered under the Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan, with a value based on the value of MSG Common Stock and the cash liquidity component, subject to the limitations set forth in .
MSG Stock Investment Option
Section 4.2(b)
     "" means The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.
NASDAQ
     "" means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
NYSE
     "" means CVC and any Person (other than an individual) participating in a CVC Plan.
Participating Company
     "" and "" shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the preamble to this Agreement.
Party
Parties
     "" means any natural person, corporation, business trust, limited liability company, joint venture, association, company, partnership or governmental, or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
     "" means, with respect to an entity, each plan, program, arrangement, agreement or commitment that is an employment, consulting, non-competition or deferred compensation agreement, or an executive compensation, incentive bonus or other bonus, employee pension, profit-sharing, savings, retirement, supplemental retirement, stock option, stock purchase, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, other equity-based compensation, severance pay, salary continuation, life, health, hospitalization, sick leave, vacation pay, disability or accident insurance plan, corporate-owned or key-man life insurance or other employee benefit plan, program, arrangement, agreement or commitment, including any "employee benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA), entered into, sponsored or maintained by such entity (or to which such entity contributes or is required to contribute).
Plan
     "" means the excess of the value of all accrued benefits under the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan as of January 1, 2010, over the Transferred CVC Cash Balance Liability.
Retained CVC Cash Balance Liability
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in of this Agreement.
Service Crediting Date
Section 2.3(b)(i)
 
     "" has the same meaning as provided in the Distribution Agreement.
Subsidiary
     "" means the value, determined in accordance with term (3)(a) of Exhibit A, of all accrued benefits being transferred to the MSG Cash Balance Plan Participants under the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan as of January 1, 2010.
Transferred CVC Cash Balance Liability
     "" means, with respect to each CVC Plan in which any MSG Group member is a Participating Company, the period of time beginning on the Distribution Date and ending on the date MSG establishes a corresponding Plan and allows participation in such Plan, which shall be no later than December 31, 2010. The Transition Period may be extended beyond December 31, 2010 if both Parties agree to the extension, and such agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Transition Period
     "" means the last day of each applicable Transition Period.
Transition Period End Date
     "" means the United States of America.
U.S.
     . Words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa, and words of one gender shall include the other gender, in each case, as the context requires. The words "hereof," "herein," "hereunder," and "herewith" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and references to Article, Section, paragraph and Exhibit are references to the Articles, Sections, paragraphs and Exhibits to this Agreement unless otherwise specified. The word "including" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall mean "including, without limitation," unless otherwise specified. Any reference to any federal, state, local or non-U.S. statute or Law shall be deemed to also refer to all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, unless the context otherwise requires.
Section 1.2
General Interpretive Principles
     .
Section 2.1
Assumption and Retention of Liabilities; Related Assets
     (a) As of the Distribution Date, except as otherwise expressly provided for in this Agreement, CVC shall, or shall cause one or more members of the CVC Group to, assume or retain and CVC hereby agrees to pay, perform, fulfill and discharge, in due course in full (i) all Liabilities under all CVC Plans ( that, as between CVC and MSG, MSG shall be responsible for certain of those Liabilities pursuant to of this Agreement), (ii) all Liabilities with respect to the employment, retirement, service, termination of employment or termination of service of all CVC Employees, Former CVC Employees, CVC Directors, their dependents and beneficiaries and other service providers (including any individual who is, or was, an independent contractor, temporary employee, temporary service worker, consultant, freelancer, agency employee, leased employee, on-call worker, incidental worker, or non-payroll worker of any member of the CVC Group or in any other employment, non-employment, or retainer arrangement or relationship with any member of the CVC Group), in each case to the extent arising in connection with or as a result of employment with or the performance of services for any member of the CVC Group, and (iii) any other Liabilities expressly assumed by or retained by CVC or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates under this Agreement. For purposes
provided
Section 2.1(b)
 
of clarification and the avoidance of doubt, (x) the Liabilities assumed or retained by the CVC Group as provided for in this are intended to be Cablevision Liabilities as such term is defined in the Distribution Agreement, and (y) the Parties intend that such Liabilities assumed or retained by the CVC Group include the retirement benefits and health and welfare plan benefits under the CVC Plans for all CVC Employees, Former CVC Employees, their dependents, beneficiaries, alternate payees and surviving spouses.
Section 2.1(a)
     (b) As of the Distribution Date, except as otherwise expressly provided for in this Agreement, MSG shall, or shall cause one or more members of the MSG Group to, assume or retain and MSG hereby agrees to pay, perform, fulfill and discharge, in due course in full (i) all Liabilities under all MSG Plans, including but not limited to, the MSG Retained Retirement Plans, the MSG Retained Multi-Employer Benefit Plans and the Madison Square Garden Retiree Medical Program, (ii) all Liabilities with respect to the employment, service, retirement, termination of employment or termination of service of all MSG Employees, Former MSG Employees, their dependents and beneficiaries and other service providers (including any individual who is, or was, an independent contractor, temporary employee, temporary service worker, consultant, freelancer, agency employee, leased employee, on-call worker, incidental worker, or non-payroll worker of any member of the MSG Group or in any other employment, non-employment, or retainer arrangement or relationship with any member of the MSG Group), and (iii) any other Liabilities expressly assumed or retained by MSG or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates under this Agreement. For purposes of clarification and the avoidance of doubt, the Liabilities assumed or retained by the MSG Group as provided for in this are intended to be MSG Liabilities as such term is defined in the Distribution Agreement.
Section 2.1(b)
     (c) From time to time after the Distribution, MSG shall promptly reimburse CVC, upon CVC's presentation of such substantiating documentation as MSG shall reasonably request, for the cost of any Liabilities satisfied by CVC or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates that are, or that have been made pursuant to this Agreement, the responsibility of MSG or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates. Where applicable, such payment shall be consistent with past practice.
     (d) From time to time after the Distribution, CVC shall promptly reimburse MSG, upon MSG's presentation of such substantiating documentation as CVC shall reasonably request, for the cost of any Liabilities satisfied by MSG or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates that are, or that have been made pursuant to this Agreement, the responsibility of CVC or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
     .
Section 2.2
MSG Participation in CVC Plans
     (a) . Except for the CVC Plans described in , and and herein, until the Transition Period End Date, MSG and each member of the MSG Group that presently participates in a particular CVC Plan may continue to be a Participating Company in such CVC Plan, and CVC and MSG shall take all necessary action to effectuate each such continuation. MSG and each member of the MSG Group shall pay CVC for any MSG Employee or Former MSG Employee's participation in the CVC Plans, if and to the extent such payment is consistent with past practice.
During the Transition Period
Articles
III
VII
VIII
Section 5.1
 
     (b) . Except as otherwise expressly provided for in this Agreement, effective as of the Transition Period End Date, MSG and each member of the MSG Group shall cease to be a Participating Company in the corresponding CVC Plan, and CVC and MSG shall take all necessary action to effectuate each such cessation.
After the Transition Period
     .
Section 2.3
Service Recognition
     (a) . MSG shall give each MSG Participant full credit for purposes of eligibility, vesting, determination of level of benefits, and, to the extent applicable, benefit accruals under any MSG Plan for such MSG Participant's service with any member of the CVC Group prior to the Distribution Date to the same extent such service was recognized by the corresponding CVC Plans immediately prior to the Distribution Date; , , that such service shall not be recognized to the extent that such recognition would result in the duplication of benefits.
Pre-Distribution Service Credit
provided
however
     (b) . Each of CVC and MSG (acting directly or through their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall cause each of the Cablevision Retirement Plans and the MSG Retirement Plans, respectively, to provide the following service crediting rules effective as of the Distribution Date:
Post-Distribution Service Crediting for the Cablevision Retirement Plans and MSG Retirement Plans
     (i) If a CVC Employee who participates in, or is eligible to participate but as of December 31, 2010 (the "") is not participating in, any of the Cablevision Retirement Plans becomes employed by a member of the MSG Group on or after the Distribution Date, but on or before the Service Crediting Date, and such CVC Employee has been continuously employed by the CVC Group through the date such CVC Employee commences active employment with a member of the MSG Group, then such CVC Employee's service with the CVC Group following the Distribution Date shall be recognized for purposes of eligibility, vesting and level of benefits under the corresponding MSG Retirement Plans, in each case to the same extent as such CVC Employee's service with the CVC Group was recognized under the corresponding Cablevision Retirement Plans.
Service Crediting Date
     (ii) If a MSG Employee becomes employed by a member of the CVC Group prior to the Service Crediting Date and such MSG Employee is continuously employed by the MSG Group from the Distribution Date through the date such MSG Employee commences active employment with a member of the CVC Group, then such MSG Employee's service with the MSG Group following the Distribution Date shall be recognized for purposes of eligibility, vesting and level of benefits under the corresponding Cablevision Retirement Plans.
     (iii) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, for the period commencing on the Distribution Date until the Service Crediting Date, the Cablevision Retirement Plans and the MSG Retirement Plans shall provide that no break in service occurs with respect to any CVC Employee or MSG Employee who is hired or rehired by any member of the MSG Group or the CVC Group after the termination of such CVC
 
Employee's or MSG Employee's employment with either the CVC Group or the MSG Group within such period.
     (iv) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the employment service with the CVC Group or the MSG Group shall not be double counted or result in duplicative benefits or service crediting under any CVC or MSG Retirement Plan.
     (c) .
Post-Distribution Service Crediting for the CVC and MSG Health & Welfare Plans
     (i) If a CVC Employee who participates in any of the CVC Health & Welfare Plans becomes employed by a member of the MSG Group on or after the Distribution Date, but on or before the Service Crediting Date, and such CVC Employee has been continuously employed by the CVC Group through the date such CVC Employee commences active employment with a member of the MSG Group, then such CVC Employee's services with the CVC Group following the Distribution Date shall be recognized for purposes of eligibility under the corresponding MSG Health & Welfare Plans, in each case to the same extent as such CVC Employee's service with the CVC Group was recognized under the corresponding CVC Health & Welfare Plan.
     (ii) If a MSG Employee who participates in any of the MSG Health & Welfare Plans becomes employed by a member of the CVC Group on or after the Distribution Date, but on or before the Service Crediting Date, and such MSG Employee has been continuously employed by the MSG Group through the date such MSG Employee commences active employment with a member of the CVC Group, then such MSG Employee's services with the MSG Group following the Distribution Date shall be recognized for purposes of eligibility under the corresponding CVC Health & Welfare Plans, in each case to the same extent as such MSG Employee's service with the MSG Group was recognized under the corresponding MSG Health & Welfare Plans.
     .
Section 3.1
Establishment of MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan
     (a) Effective January 1, 2010, MSG shall establish a defined benefit pension plan (the "") and related trust (the "") to provide retirement benefits to MSG Cash Balance Plan Participants. MSG shall be responsible for taking all necessary, reasonable, and appropriate action to establish, maintain and administer the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan so that it is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and that the related trust thereunder is exempt under Section 501(a) of the Code.
MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan
MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust
     (c) As of January 1, 2010, MSG (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall cause the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan to recognize and maintain all existing elections, including beneficiary designations, payment form elections and rights of alternate payees under qualified domestic relations orders with respect to MSG Cash Balance Plan Participants under the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan.
 
     (c) Beginning January 1, 2010 and ending on a date agreed upon by the Parties (which date shall be no later than December 31, 2010), the recordkeeping of the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan will be maintained under the existing Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan. During this period, MSG will pay CVC the administrative and other recordkeeping expenses with respect to the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan, if and to the extent such payment is consistent with past practice, and such amounts will be adjusted in accordance with the terms that are set forth in Exhibit A and made part of this Agreement.
     (d) Beginning January 1, 2010 and ending on a date agreed upon by the Parties (which date shall be no later than December 31, 2010), any payments payable to a MSG Employee or Former MSG Employee with respect to the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan will be paid by the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust and such amounts will be adjusted in accordance with the terms that are set forth in Exhibit A.
     . The Parties agree that the assets and liabilities of the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan relating to MSG Cash Balance Plan Participants shall be transferred to the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan in accordance with Section 414(l) of the Code and the regulations thereunder and the terms set forth in Exhibit A.
Section 3.2
Transfer of Assets and Liabilities
     . The transactions provided for under this Agreement shall not constitute a separation from service or a termination of employment under the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan or the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan, each of which shall provide that no distribution of retirement benefits shall be made to any MSG Employee on account of these transactions.
Section 3.3
No Separation from Service
     .
Section 4.1
The MSG
401(k)
Savings Plan
     (a) . Effective as of the day following the Transition Period End Date for the Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan, MSG shall establish a defined contribution plan and trust for the benefit of MSG Participants (the "") who immediately prior to the day following such Transition Period End Date were participants in, or entitled to, future benefits under the Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan. MSG shall be responsible for taking all necessary, reasonable and appropriate action to establish, maintain and administer the MSG 401(k) Savings Plan so that it is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and that the related trust thereunder is exempt under Section 501(a) of the Code. Notwithstanding the above, until the Transition Period End Date, all benefits payable to MSG Participants shall be paid from the Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan and MSG will continue to withhold MSG Employee contributions, fund matching contributions for MSG Employees and pay CVC the administrative and other expenses for the payment of such benefits, if and to the extent such payment is consistent with past practice.
Establishment of the MSG 401(k) Savings Plan
MSG 401(k) Savings Plan
     (b) . As soon as reasonably practicable following the Transition Period End Date, CVC shall cause the accounts (including any outstanding loan balances and forfeitures) in the Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan
Transfer of Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan Assets
 
attributable to MSG Participants and all of the Assets in the Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan related thereto to be transferred to the MSG 401(k) Savings Plan, and MSG shall cause the MSG 401(k) Savings Plan to accept such transfer of accounts and underlying Assets and, effective as of the date of such transfer, to assume and to fully perform, pay and discharge all Liabilities of the Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan relating to the accounts of MSG Participants (to the extent the Assets related to those accounts are actually transferred from the Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan to the MSG 401(k) Savings Plan) as of the day following such Transition Period End Date. The transfer of Assets shall be conducted in accordance with Sections 414(l) of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
     (c) . As of the effective date of the MSG 401(k) Savings Plan, MSG (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall cause the MSG 401(k) Savings Plan to recognize and maintain all elections, including deferral and payment form elections, beneficiary designations, and the rights of alternate payees under qualified domestic relations orders with respect to MSG Participants under the Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan for the remainder of the period or periods for which such elections or designations are by their original terms applicable, to the extent such election or designation is available under the MSG 401(k) Savings Plan.
Continuation of Elections
     .
Section 4.2
Stock Investment Options
     (a) No deferrals, employee contributions, employer contributions or exchanges into the CVC Stock Investment Option shall be permitted to be made by MSG Participants following the Distribution Date.
     (b) The Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan will be amended as of the Distribution Date to: (i) create a MSG Stock Investment Option; (ii) enable the MSG Stock Investment Option to receive shares of MSG Common Stock to be distributed in the Distribution on behalf of Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan participants; and (iii) provide that, following the Distribution, no new amounts may be contributed to a MSG Stock Investment Option, whether through employee contributions, employer contributions or exchanges.
     .
Section 5.1
Excess Cash Balance Pension Plan
     (a) Effective as of January 1, 2010, MSG shall establish and make payments pursuant to a non-qualified defined benefit pension plan (the "") to provide non-qualified retirement benefits to eligible MSG Participants and shall assume the Liabilities of the Cablevision Excess Cash Balance Plan relating to MSG Participants.
MSG Excess Cash Balance Plan
     (b) As of January 1, 2010, MSG (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall cause the MSG Excess Cash Balance Plan to recognize and maintain all existing beneficiary designations with respect to MSG Participants under the Cablevision Excess Cash Balance Plan.
 
     (c) Beginning January 1, 2010 and ending on a date agreed upon by the Parties (which date shall be no later than December 31, 2010), the recordkeeping of the MSG Excess Cash Balance Plan will be maintained under the existing Cablevision Excess Cash Balance Plan. During this period, MSG will pay CVC the administrative and other recordkeeping expenses with respect to the MSG Excess Cash Balance Plan, if and to the extent such payment is consistent with past practice.
     (d) Beginning January 1, 2010 and ending on a date agreed upon by the Parties (which date shall be no later than December 31, 2010), any payments payable to a MSG Employee or Former MSG Employee under the MSG Excess Cash Balance Plan will be paid by MSG.
     . The Parties agree that the Liabilities of the Cablevision Excess Cash Balance Plan relating to MSG Participants shall be transferred to the MSG Excess Cash Balance Plan effective January 1, 2010. As soon as reasonably practicable following the Distribution Date, but in any event within 30 days of the Distribution Date, CVC will pay an amount equal to the sum of the following:
Section 5.2
Transfer of Assets and Liabilities
     (a) the amount paid by MSG to CVC for the pension expense accrued under the Cablevision Excess Cash Balance Plan less payments made by MSG directly to former participants during the period from January 1, 2001 through December 31, 2009; and
     (b) the amount paid by Fuse to CVC for the pension expense accrued under the Cablevision Excess Cash Balance Plan during the period from January 1, 2001 through December 31, 2009.
     .
Section 5.3
Excess Savings Plan
     (a) . Effective as of the day following the Transition Period End Date for the Cablevision Excess Savings Plan, MSG shall establish a defined contribution plan for the benefit of MSG Participants (the "") who immediately prior to the day following such Transition Period End Date were participants in, or entitled to, future benefits under the Cablevision Excess Savings Plan. Until the Transition Period End Date, MSG will continue to withhold MSG Employee contributions, track matching contributions for MSG Employees and pay CVC the administrative and other expenses for the payment of such benefits, if and to the extent such payment is consistent with past practice.
Establishment of the MSG Excess Savings Plan
MSG Excess Savings Plan
     (b) . As soon as reasonably practicable following the Transition Period End Date, CVC shall cause the accounts in the Cablevision Excess Savings Plan attributable to MSG Participants to be transferred to the MSG Excess Savings Plan and MSG shall cause the MSG Excess Savings Plan to accept such transfer of accounts in accordance with current practice and to assume and to fully perform, pay and discharge all Liabilities of the Cablevision Excess Savings Plan relating to the accounts of MSG Participants as of the day following such Transition Period End Date.
Transfer of Cablevision Excess Savings Plan Accounts
     (c) . As of the effective date of the MSG Excess Savings Plan, MSG (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall cause the MSG Excess Savings Plan to recognize and maintain all elections, including deferral elections and beneficiary
Continuation of Elections
 
designations with respect to MSG Participants under the Cablevision Excess Savings Plan for the remainder of the period or periods for which such elections or designations are by their original terms applicable, to the extent such election or designation is available under the MSG Excess Savings Plan.
     . Employees who transfer from CVC to MSG between the Distribution Date and the Service Crediting Date will not be eligible for an immediate distribution of their account balance from the Cablevision Excess Cash Balance Plan or the Cablevision Excess Savings Plan; instead, any such account balance shall be transferred to the MSG Excess Cash Balance Plan or the MSG Excess Savings Plan on the date of transfer, and CVC shall pay MSG an amount equal to the vested account balance as of the transfer date within 30 days of such transfer date. Employees who transfer from MSG to CVC between the Distribution Date and the Service Crediting Date will not be eligible for an immediate distribution of their account balance from the MSG Excess Cash Balance Plan or the MSG Excess Savings Plan; instead, any such account balance shall be transferred to the Cablevision Excess Cash Balance Plan or the Cablevision Excess Savings Plan on the date of transfer, and MSG shall pay CVC an amount equal to the vested account balance as of the transfer date within 30 days of such transfer date.
Section 5.4
Transferred Employees
     .
Section 6.1
Health and Welfare Plans Maintained by CVC Prior to the Distribution Date
     (a) . CVC or one or more of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates maintain each of the health and welfare plans set forth on Exhibit D attached hereto (the "") for the benefit of eligible CVC Participants and MSG Participants. Effective as of January 1, 2010 (the ""), MSG shall, or shall cause one of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to, adopt corresponding or substantially similar health and welfare plans for the benefit of eligible MSG Participants (collectively, the "").
Establishment of the MSG Health & Welfare Plans
CVC Health & Welfare Plans
Effective Date
MSG Health & Welfare Plans
     (b) . MSG (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall cause all MSG Health & Welfare Plans, if applicable, to (i) waive all limitations as to pre-existing conditions, exclusions, and service conditions with respect to participation and coverage requirements applicable to MSG Participants, other than limitations that were in effect with respect to MSG Participants immediately prior to the Effective Date, (ii) provide credit for any deductible, out-of-pocket maximum, and co-payment incurred by MSG Participants under the CVC Health & Welfare Plans in which they participated immediately prior to the Effective Date, in satisfying any applicable deductible or out-of-pocket requirements under any MSG Health & Welfare Plans during the same plan year in which such deductible, out-of-pocket maximums and co-payments were made, (iii) waive any waiting period limitation or evidence of insurability requirement that would otherwise be applicable to a MSG Participant immediately prior to the Effective Date to the extent such MSG Participant had satisfied any similar limitation under the analogous CVC Health & Welfare Plan, and (iv) in the case of self-insured MSG Health & Welfare Plans, provide credit for all benefits paid to MSG
Terms of Participation in MSG Health & Welfare Plans
 
Participants under the CVC Health & Welfare Plans for purposes of determining when such persons have reached their annual and lifetime maximums under the MSG Health & Welfare Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any MSG Participant, Former MSG Employee, or dependent thereof is confined to a facility for treatment as of the Effective Date, such persons nevertheless shall become covered under MSG Health & Welfare Plans as of such date, and shall cease being covered under CVC Health & Welfare Plans as of such date.
     (c) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, with respect to any CVC Employee who becomes employed by any member of the MSG Group during the period from the Distribution Date until December 31, 2010, MSG shall cause the MSG Health & Welfare Plans to (i) waive all limitations as to pre-existing conditions, exclusions, and service conditions with respect to participation and coverage requirements applicable to such individual, other than limitations that were in effect with respect to MSG Participants at the time of the individual's transfer, (ii) provide credit for any deductible, out-of-pocket maximum, and co-payment incurred by such individual under the CVC Health & Welfare Plans in which he or she participated immediately prior to the transfer, in satisfying any applicable deductible or out-of-pocket requirements under any MSG Health & Welfare Plans during the same plan year in which such deductible, out-of-pocket maximums and co-payments were made, (iii) waive any waiting period limitation or evidence of insurability requirement that would otherwise be applicable to the individual immediately prior to the transfer to the extent such individual had satisfied any similar limitation under the analogous CVC Health & Welfare Plan, and (iv) provide credit for all benefits paid to the individual under the CVC Health & Welfare Plans for purposes of determining when such individual has reached his or her annual and lifetime maximums under the analogous MSG Health & Welfare Plans. With respect to any MSG Employee who becomes employed by any member of the CVC Group during the period from the Distribution Date until December 31, 2010, CVC shall cause the CVC Health & Welfare Plans to (i) waive all limitations as to pre-existing conditions, exclusions, and service conditions with respect to participation and coverage requirements applicable to such individual, other than limitations that were in effect with respect to CVC Participants at the time of the individual's transfer, (ii) provide credit for any deductible, out-of-pocket maximum, and co-payment incurred by such individual under the MSG Health & Welfare Plans in which he or she participated immediately prior to the transfer, in satisfying any applicable deductible or out-of-pocket requirements under any CVC Health & Welfare Plans during the same plan year in which such deductible, out-of-pocket maximums and co-payments were made, (iii) waive any waiting period limitation or evidence of insurability requirement that would otherwise be applicable to the individual immediately prior to the transfer to the extent such individual had satisfied any similar limitation under the analogous MSG Health & Welfare Plan, and (iv) provide credit for
Post-Distribution Employee Transfers
 
all benefits paid to the individual under the MSG Health & Welfare Plans for purposes of determining when such individual has reached his or her annual and lifetime maximums under the analogous CVC Health & Welfare Plans.
     . As of the Effective Date, MSG (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall establish a flexible spending accounts plan (the "") with features that are comparable to those contained in the flexible spending accounts plan maintained by CVC for the benefit of MSG Participants immediately prior to the Effective Date (the ""). Following the Effective Date, MSG Participants that presently participate in the CVC Flexible Spending Accounts Plan may submit, for reimbursement in accordance with the CVC Flexible Spending Accounts Plan, claims for health costs incurred during the 2009 plan year and any applicable grace period thereafter, and CVC shall be responsible for the payment of such claims. MSG shall be entitled to retain the net positive balance, if any, of the MSG Participants' flexible spending accounts from the 2009 plan year. MSG shall pay to CVC the net negative balance, if any, of the MSG Participants' flexible spending accounts from the 2009 plan year. As of the Effective Date, MSG shall be responsible for administering all reimbursement claims of MSG Participants under the MSG Flexible Spending Account Plan with respect to calendar year 2010 under the MSG Flexible Spending Accounts Plan.
Section 6.2
Flexible Spending Accounts Plan
MSG Flexible Spending Accounts Plan
CVC Flexible Spending Accounts Plan
     . Any case initiated by a MSG Participant under the Cablevision CHOICEGroup Legal Plan prior to the Effective Date will continue under such plan until its completion regardless of whether the MSG Participant enrolls in the MSG Group Legal Plan after the Effective Date.
Section 6.3
Legal Plan
Plus
     . As of the Effective Date, MSG (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall assume, or shall have caused the MSG Health & Welfare Plans to assume, responsibility for compliance with the health care continuation coverage requirements of COBRA with respect to MSG Participants who, as of the day prior to the Effective Date, were covered under a CVC Health & Welfare Plan pursuant to COBRA or were eligible for COBRA under a CVC Health & Welfare Plan and incur any COBRA claims after the Effective Date. CVC shall be responsible for the claims incurred by MSG Participants prior to the Effective Date, regardless if payments for such claims are made or due after the Effective Date. CVC (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall be responsible for administering compliance with the certificate of creditable coverage requirements of HIPAA applicable to the CVC Health & Welfare Plans with respect to MSG Participants for the period ending on the Effective Date. The Parties hereto agree that neither the Distribution nor any transfers of employment directly from the CVC Group to the MSG Group or directly from the MSG Group to the CVC Group that occur before the Effective Date shall constitute a COBRA "qualifying event" for purposes of COBRA.
Section 6.4
COBRA and HIPAA
     .
Section 6.5
Liabilities
     (a) . With respect to employee welfare and fringe benefits that are provided through the purchase of insurance, CVC shall cause the CVC Health & Welfare Plans to fully perform, pay and discharge all claims of MSG Participants that are incurred prior to the Effective Date (whether reported or unreported by the Effective Date) for the CVC Health &
Insured Benefits
 
Welfare Plans, and MSG shall cause the MSG Health & Welfare Plans to fully perform, pay and discharge all claims of MSG Participants that are incurred on or after the Effective Date. With respect to claims of MSG Participants that are incurred prior to the Effective Date (whether reported or unreported by the Effective Date) and paid by the CVC Health & Welfare Plans, MSG, as a Participating Company, shall pay CVC for any administrative or other expenses, if and to the extent such payment is consistent with past practice.
     (i) . Any MSG Participant who is on long-term disability leave and receiving long-term disability benefits under the Cablevision CHOICELong Term Disability Plan as of the Effective Date shall continue to receive benefits under the Cablevision CHOICELong Term Disability Plan in accordance with the provisions of such Plan following the Effective Date.
Long-Term Disability
Plus
Plus
     (ii) . Effective as of the Distribution Date, CVC shall retain responsibilities for all Liabilities, and fully perform, pay or discharge all Liabilities when such Liabilities become due, relating to any payments of premiums with respect to the continued participation of CVC Employees who are also MSG Employees who participate in the Cablevision Executive Life Insurance program, and MSG shall have no obligations with respect to any such payments.
Cablevision Executive Life
     (b) . With respect to employee welfare and fringe benefits that are provided on a self-insured basis, except as otherwise provided herein, MSG (acting directly or through its Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall cause the MSG Health & Welfare Plans and the Madison Square Garden Retiree Medical Program to fully perform, pay and discharge all claims of MSG Participants after the Effective Date that are incurred on or after the Effective Date. Except as provided otherwise herein, and in a manner if and to the extent such payment is consistent with past practice, MSG shall reimburse CVC for the administrative and other expenses related to self-insured benefit claims paid by the CVC Health & Welfare Plans or CVC that were incurred prior to the Effective Date (whether reported or unreported by the Effective Date).
Self-Insured Benefits
          (i) .
Short-Term Disability
     (A) Any MSG Participant who is on short-term disability leave and receiving short-term disability benefits under the Cablevision Salary Continuation Plan as of the Effective Date shall continue to receive short-term disability benefits under the Cablevision Salary Continuation Plan. MSG, as a Participating Company, shall reimburse CVC for all administrative and other expenses paid by the Cablevision Salary Continuation Plan or CVC after the Effective Date, if and to the extent consistent with past practice. MSG shall continue to pay any short-term disability benefits owed to a MSG Participant under the Cablevision Salary Continuation Plan, if and to the extent consistent with past practice.
     (B) Any MSG Participant who is on a short-term disability leave as of the Effective Date, and who but for the transactions contemplated under the Distribution Agreement would have become
 
eligible for long-term disability benefits in accordance with the provisions of the Cablevision CHOICELong Term Disability Plan, will continue to be eligible for long-term disability benefits under the Cablevision CHOICELong Term Disability Plan.
Plus
Plus
     (c) . For purposes of this , a claim or Liability is deemed to be incurred (i) with respect to medical, dental, vision and/or prescription drug benefits, upon the rendering of health services or provision of supplies giving rise to such claim or Liability; (ii) with respect to life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment and business travel accident insurance, upon the occurrence of the event giving rise to such claim or Liability; (iii) with respect to disability benefits, upon the date of an individual's disability, as determined by the disability benefit insurance carrier or claim administrator, giving rise to such claim or Liability; and (iv) with respect to a period of continuous hospitalization (or any medical or other service or supply performed or provided during the period of continuous hospitalization), upon the date of admission to the hospital.
Incurred Claim Definition
Section 6.5
     . MSG shall credit each MSG Participant with the amount of accrued but unused vacation time, sick time and other time-off benefits as such MSG Participant had with the CVC Group as of the Distribution Date or as of an employee's transfer date for a CVC Employee who becomes a MSG Employee prior to December 31, 2010. CVC shall promptly reimburse MSG for the value of such employee transfer accruals credited by MSG, up to the maximum payout amount for each such participant. CVC shall credit each CVC Participant with the amount of accrued but unused vacation time, sick time and other time-off benefits as of an employee's transfer date for a MSG Employee who becomes a CVC Employee prior to December 31, 2010. MSG shall promptly reimburse CVC for the value of such employee transfer accruals credited by CVC, up to the maximum payout amount for each such participant. Notwithstanding the above, MSG shall not be required to credit any MSG Participant and CVC shall not be required to credit any CVC Participant with any accrual to the extent that a benefit attributable to such accrual is provided by the CVC Group or MSG Group, respectively.
Section 6.6
Time-Off Benefits
     . The Parties acknowledge and agree that the transactions contemplated by the Distribution Agreement will not constitute a termination of employment of any MSG Participant for purposes of any policy, plan, program or agreement of CVC or MSG or any member of the CVC Group or MSG Group that provides for the payment of severance, separation pay, salary continuation or similar benefits in the event of a termination of employment.
Section 6.7
Severance Pay Plans
     . The Parties, including through instructions with their respective administrators and recordkeepers, shall use commercially reasonable efforts and shall cooperate in good faith to take all actions reasonably necessary or appropriate for the adjustment of the Equity Compensation under the CVC Share Plans, for the issuance of the Equity Compensation under the MSG Share Plans, and to coordinate the tax treatment of such Equity Compensation as set forth in this , all in a manner consistent with the
Section 7.1
Equity Compensation
Article VII
 
resolutions adopted by the Cablevision Compensation Committee in connection with the Distribution.
     .
Section 7.2
Forfeiture of CVC Restricted Stock
     (a) . If a holder of CVC Restricted Stock forfeits such restricted stock pursuant to the terms of the CVC Restricted Stock, the parties shall ensure that the appropriate transfer agent returns the forfeited stock to CVC. For the avoidance of doubt, forfeited CVC Restricted Stock held by a MSG Employee or Former MSG Employee shall be returned to CVC without any reimbursement by CVC to MSG for such forfeited restricted stock.
CVC Restricted Stock
     (b) . If a holder of CVC Restricted Stock outstanding as of the Distribution Date forfeits such CVC Restricted Stock and therefore forfeits the accompanying MSG Dividend Shares, the parties shall ensure that the appropriate transfer agent returns the forfeited MSG Dividend Shares to MSG. For the avoidance of doubt, forfeited MSG Dividend Shares held by a CVC Employee or Former CVC Employee shall be delivered to MSG without any reimbursement by MSG to CVC for such forfeited MSG Dividend Shares.
MSG Dividend Shares
     .
Section 7.3
Taxes and Withholding
     (a) .
Options
          (i) .
Exercise Price
     (A) Upon the exercise of a CVC Option, whether by a CVC Employee, Former CVC Employee, MSG Employee or Former MSG Employee, the parties shall take steps to ensure that the exercise price is delivered to CVC.
     (B) Upon the exercise of a MSG Option, whether by a CVC Employee, Former CVC Employee, MSG Employee or Former MSG Employee, the parties shall take steps to ensure that the exercise price is delivered to MSG.
          (ii) .
Taxes
     (A) Upon exercise of a CVC Option or MSG Option by any holder other than a CVC Director, the employer or former employer of such holder shall fund any employer taxes.
     (B) Upon exercise of a CVC Option or MSG Option by any holder other than a CVC Director, the parties shall take steps to ensure that the applicable withholding amount is remitted in cash to the employer or former employer of such holder.
     (C) CVC will be responsible for any tax reporting obligations associated with any CVC Options outstanding as of the Distribution Date that are exercised by a CVC Director.
 
     (b) .
SARs
     (i) .
Settlement
     (A) As of the Distribution Date, CVC shall be responsible for all Liabilities under CVC SARs and MSG SARs held by CVC Employees or Former CVC Employees. CVC shall settle such CVC SARs or MSG SARs upon vesting.
     (B) As of the Distribution Date, MSG shall assume responsibility for all Liabilities under CVC SARs and MSG SARs held by MSG Employees or Former MSG Employees. MSG shall settle such CVC SARs and MSG SARs upon vesting.
     (ii) .
Taxes
     (A) Upon exercise of a CVC SAR or MSG SAR by any holder, the employer or former employer of such holder shall fund any employer taxes.
     (B) Upon exercise of a CVC SAR or MSG SAR by any holder, the parties shall take steps to ensure that the applicable withholding amount is remitted in cash to the employer or former employer of such holder.
     (c) .
Restricted Stock
     (i) . Upon vesting of CVC Restricted Stock with respect to any holder, CVC will net share settle such restricted stock. If the holder is a MSG Employee or Former MSG Employee, CVC will cause the cash payments associated with the net settlement to be delivered promptly to MSG in order for MSG to satisfy the associated employee withholding obligation. The employer or former employer of the holder shall fund any employer taxes with respect to the CVC Restricted Stock.
CVC Restricted Stock
     (ii) . Upon vesting of CVC Restricted Stock with respect to any holder, MSG will net share settle the associated MSG Dividend Shares. If the holder is a CVC Employee or Former CVC Employee, MSG will cause the cash payments associated with the net settlement to be delivered promptly to CVC in order for CVC to satisfy the associated employee withholding obligation. The employer or former employer of the holder shall fund any employer taxes with respect to the MSG Dividend Shares.
MSG Dividend Shares
     (d) .
Dividends Payable on Options or Restricted Stock
     (i) CVC shall fund any accrued dividends with respect to CVC Options or CVC Restricted Stock. CVC shall fund any dividends accrued as of the Distribution Date with respect to MSG Options. CVC shall be responsible for collecting any applicable
 
withholding amounts with respect to such dividends and, to the extent a holder is a MSG Employee or Former MSG Employee, shall promptly remit such amounts to MSG.
     (ii) For dividends accrued with respect to CVC Options, MSG Options or CVC Restricted Stock, the employer or former employer of the holder shall fund any employer taxes.
     (e) .
Restricted Stock Units
     (i) . As of the Distribution Date, CVC shall be responsible for all Liabilities under CVC RSUs that are outstanding as of the Distribution Date and held by CVC Directors. CVC shall settle, and satisfy any dividend obligations with respect to, such CVC RSUs in accordance with the terms of the Cablevision Systems Corporation 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
Settlement
     (ii) . Upon settlement of any CVC RSU that is outstanding as of the Distribution Date and held by a CVC Director, CVC will be responsible for any associated tax reporting obligations.
Taxes
     (f) . With respect to the Equity Compensation held by individuals who are CVC Employees or CVC Directors at the time the Equity Compensation becomes taxable and individuals who are Former CVC Employees at such time, CVC shall claim any federal, state and/or local tax deductions after the Distribution Date, and MSG shall not claim such deductions. With respect to the Equity Compensation held by individuals who are employees of the MSG Group at the time the Equity Compensation becomes taxable and individuals who are Former MSG Employees at such time, MSG shall claim any federal, state and/or local tax deductions after the Distribution Date, and CVC shall not claim such deductions. If either CVC or MSG determines in its reasonable judgment that there is a substantial likelihood that a tax deduction that was assigned to CVC or MSG pursuant to this will instead be available only to the other party (whether as a result of a determination by the IRS, a change in the Code or the regulations or guidance thereunder, or otherwise), it will notify the other party and both parties will negotiate in good faith to resolve the issue in accordance with the following principle: the party entitled to the deduction shall pay to the other party an amount that places the other party in a financial position equivalent to the financial position the party would have been in had the party received the deduction as intended under this . Such amount shall be paid within 90 days of filing the last tax return necessary to make the determination described in the preceding sentence.
Tax Deductions
Section 7.3
Section 7.3
     . In addition to any cooperation principles governed by , if, after the Distribution Date, CVC or MSG identify an administrative error in the individuals identified as holding Equity Compensation, the amount of Equity Compensation so held, the vesting level of such Equity Compensation, or any other similar error, CVC and MSG shall mutually cooperate in taking such actions as are necessary or appropriate to place, as nearly as reasonably practicable, the individual and CVC and MSG in the position in which they would have been had the error not occurred. Each of the Parties shall establish an appropriate administration system in order to handle in an orderly manner exercises of CVC Options, MSG Options, CVC SARs and MSG SARs and the settlement of CVC Restricted Stock. Each of the
Section 7.4
Cooperation
Article X
 
Parties will work together to unify and consolidate all indicative data and payroll and employment information on regular timetables and make certain that each applicable entity's data and records with respect to Equity Compensation are correct and updated on a timely basis. The foregoing shall include employment status and information required for tax withholding/remittance, compliance with trading windows and compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and other applicable Laws.
     . The Parties mutually agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain effective registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the long-term incentive awards to the extent any such registration statement is required by applicable Law.
Section 7.5
SEC Registration
     . The Parties hereby acknowledge that the provisions of this are intended to achieve certain tax, legal and accounting objectives and, in the event such objectives are not achieved, the Parties agree to negotiate in good faith regarding such other actions that may be necessary or appropriate to achieve such objectives.
Section 7.6
Savings Clause
Article VII
     .
Section 8.1
Cash Incentive Awards
     (a) . The Parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts and shall cooperate in good faith to take all actions reasonably necessary or appropriate to achieve the treatment of annual or long-term cash incentive awards established under the 2006 Cablevision Cash Incentive Plan (or the comparable non-executive annual incentive plan maintained by CVC) or the CVC Long Term Incentive Plan as approved by the Cablevision Compensation Committee prior to the Distribution in accordance with the terms of such Plans and the award agreements issued thereunder, including as set forth in this .
Cooperation
Section 8.1
     (b) .
Liability
     (i) Effective as of the Distribution Date and subject to , MSG shall assume or retain, as applicable, responsibilities for all Liabilities, and fully perform, pay and discharge all Liabilities when such Liabilities become due, relating to any annual or long-term cash incentive awards, or portion of any such incentive awards, established under the 2006 Cablevision Cash Incentive Plan (or the comparable non-executive annual incentive plan maintained by CVC) or the CVC Long Term Incentive Plan that any MSG Participant is eligible to receive with respect to any performance period that ends on, before or after the Distribution Date and, effective as of the Distribution Date, CVC shall have no obligations with respect to any such incentive awards.
Section 8.2(c)
     (ii) CVC acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise provided herein, it shall have full responsibility with respect to any Liabilities and the payment or performance of any obligations arising out of or relating to any incentive, commission or other similar compensatory arrangement previously provided by any member of the CVC Group or MSG Group to any CVC Participant.
 
     (iii) MSG acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise provided herein, it shall have full responsibility with respect to any Liabilities and the payment or performance of any obligations arising out of or relating to any incentive, commission or other similar compensatory arrangement previously provided by any member of the CVC Group or MSG Group to any MSG Participant.
     (c) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this , CVC shall promptly pay MSG the portion of any annual or long-term cash incentive awards established under the 2006 Cablevision Cash Incentive Plan (or the comparable non-executive annual incentive plan maintained by CVC) or the CVC Long Term Incentive Plan that has accrued but has not yet been paid up to the date of transfer with respect to any employee that transfers from CVC to MSG on or after the Distribution Date (or in advance of the Distribution Date if such transfer was in connection with the Distribution). MSG shall refund to CVC any portion of such amount to the extent it relates to an award that is ultimately forfeited by such employee without payment (such refund, if any, to occur promptly after a forfeiture of any such award). MSG shall promptly pay CVC the portion of any annual or long-term cash incentive award established under the 2006 Cablevision Cash Incentive Plan (or the comparable non-executive annual incentive plan maintained by CVC) or the CVC Long Term Incentive Plan that has accrued but has not yet been paid up to the date of transfer with respect to any employee that transfers from MSG to CVC on or after the Distribution Date (or in advance of the Distribution Date if such transfer was in connection with the Distribution). CVC shall refund to MSG any portion of such amount to the extent it relates to an award that is ultimately forfeited by such employee without payment (such refund, if any, to occur promptly after a forfeiture of any such award). In connection with any performance-based award granted in March 2007 (where the performance objective(s) relates to 2009 performance) or any annual bonus relating to 2009 performance, the "prompt" payment required under this Section 8.1(c) with respect to any employee that transfers after December 31, 2009 and before the payment of such awards, shall be the full actual amount of such calculated payment to such employees once determined (rather than the accrued amount at the date of transfer).
Transferred Employees
Section 8.1
     (d) . In addition to any cooperation principles governed by , CVC shall provide MSG with projections, on a quarterly basis, of long-term cash incentive payments that are expected to be payable for MSG Participants with respect to long-term cash incentive awards outstanding as of the Distribution Date.
Cooperation
Article X
     .
Section 8.2
Individual Arrangements
     (a) . CVC acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise provided herein, it shall have full responsibility with respect to any Liabilities and the payment or performance of any obligations arising out of or relating to any employment, consulting, non-competition, retention or other compensatory arrangement previously provided by any member of the CVC Group or MSG Group to any CVC Participant.
CVC Individual Arrangements
     (b) . MSG acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise provided herein, it shall have full responsibility with respect to any Liabilities and the payment or performance of any obligations arising out of or relating to any employment, consulting, non-competition, retention or other compensatory arrangement previously provided by any member of the CVC Group or MSG Group to any MSG Participant.
MSG Individual Arrangements
     (c) . For purposes of this Agreement, for so long as any executive is employed by both CVC and MSG, such executive shall be considered to be a CVC Employee with respect to all amounts and awards outstanding as of the Distribution Date. MSG shall not be responsible for any costs associated with any annual or long-term cash or equity incentive award outstanding as of the Distribution Date with respect to any such executive.
Shared Executives
     (d) . The Parties acknowledge and agree that the transactions contemplated by the Distribution Agreement will not constitute a termination of employment of any MSG Participant for purposes of any policy, plan, program or agreement of CVC or MSG or any member of the CVC Group or MSG Group that provides for the payment of
Effect of the Distribution on Severance
 
severance, separation pay, salary continuation or similar benefits in the event of a termination of employment.
     . For the purpose of any non-compete provision in any CVC Plan, MSG shall not be regarded as a "competitive entity." For the purpose of any non-compete provision in any MSG Plan, CVC shall not be regarded as a "competitive entity." This shall apply only so long as CVC and MSG remain under common Control.
Section 8.3
Non-Competition
Section 8.3
     To the extent any provision of this Agreement is contrary to the provisions of any collective bargaining agreement to which CVC or MSG or any of their respective Affiliates is a party, the terms of such collective bargaining agreement shall prevail. Should any provisions of this Agreement be deemed to relate to a topic determined by an appropriate authority to be a mandatory subject of collective bargaining, CVC or MSG may be obligated to bargain with the union representing affected employees concerning those subjects.
Section 8.4
Collective Bargaining
.
     . MSG and its respective Affiliates shall retain responsibility for the payment of dues and fringe benefit payments on behalf of MSG Employees with respect to the unions set forth on Exhibit E.
Section 8.5
Union Dues
     . CVC shall retain responsibility for the payment of any fees and CVC RSUs payable in respect of service on the CVC Board of Directors that are payable but not yet paid as of the Distribution Date, and MSG shall have no responsibility for any such payments (to an individual who is a member of the MSG Board of Directors as of the Distribution Date or otherwise).
Section 8.6
Director Programs
     . In addition to CVC's obligations under the Transition Services Agreement (as defined in the Distribution Agreement) with respect to MSG Employees regarding certain continued cable television, online and voice services and benefits, CVC shall continue to provide the employee product benefit to those Former MSG Employees receiving the employee product benefit as of the Distribution Date at the same level provided to such individuals as of such date, and MSG shall reimburse CVC for the actual cost, if any, incurred by CVC in continuing to provide those benefits to such Former MSG Employees.
Section 8.7
Cable, Online and Voice Employee Benefits
     . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary (including the treatment of supplemental and deferred compensation plans, outstanding long-term incentive awards and annual incentive awards as described herein), the Parties agree to negotiate in good faith regarding the need for any treatment different from that otherwise provided herein to ensure that (i) a federal income tax deduction for the payment of such supplemental or deferred compensation or long-term incentive award, annual incentive award or other compensation is not limited by reason of Section 162(m) of the Code, and (ii) the treatment of such supplemental or deferred compensation or long-term incentive award, annual incentive award or other compensation does not cause the imposition of a tax under Section 409A of the Code.
Section 8.8
Sections 
162(m)
/409A
     . All Liabilities retained or assumed by or allocated to CVC or the CVC Group pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be "Cablevision Liabilities" (as defined in the Distribution Agreement) for purposes of Article III of the Distribution Agreement, and all Liabilities retained or assumed by or allocated to MSG or the MSG Group pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be "MSG Liabilities" (as defined in the Distribution Agreement) for purposes of Article III of the Distribution Agreement.
Section 9.1
Indemnification
 
     . CVC and MSG (acting directly or through their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall provide to the other and their respective agents and vendors all Information as the other may reasonably request to enable the requesting Party to administer efficiently and accurately each of its Plans, to assist MSG in obtaining its own insurance policies to provide benefits under MSG Plans, and to determine the scope of, as well as fulfill, its obligations under this Agreement; , however, that in the event that any Party reasonably determines that any such provision of Information could be commercially detrimental to such Party or any member of its Group, violate any Law or agreement to which such Party or member of its Group is a party, or waive any attorney-client privilege applicable to such Party or member of its Group, the Parties shall provide any such Information and the Parties shall take all reasonable measures to comply with the obligations pursuant to this in a manner that mitigates any such harm or consequence to the extent practicable, and the Parties agree to cooperate with each other and take such commercially reasonable steps as may be practicable to preserve the attorney-client privilege with respect to the disclosure of any such Information. Such Information shall, to the extent reasonably practicable, be provided in the format and at the times and places requested, but in no event shall the Party providing such Information be obligated to incur any out-of-pocket expenses not reimbursed by the Party making such request or make such Information available outside of its normal business hours and premises. Any Information shared or exchanged pursuant to this Agreement shall be subject to the same confidentiality requirements set forth in Section 4.4 of the Distribution Agreement.
Section 10.1
Sharing of Information
provided
Section 10.1
     . Each of the Parties hereto will use its commercially reasonable efforts to promptly take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Laws and regulations to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including adopting plans or plan amendments. Each of the Parties hereto shall cooperate fully on any issue relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement for which the other Party seeks a determination letter or private letter ruling from the IRS, an advisory opinion from the DOL or any other filing, consent or approval with respect to or by a Governmental Authority.
Section 10.2
Reasonable Efforts/Cooperation
     . No provision of this Agreement or the Distribution Agreement shall be construed to create any right, or accelerate entitlement, to any compensation or benefit whatsoever on the part of any CVC Employee or MSG Employee or other future, present, or former employee of any member of the CVC Group or MSG Group under any CVC Plan or MSG Plan or otherwise. This Agreement is solely for the benefit of the Parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns. Nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other person or persons (including any employee or former employee of CVC or MSG or either of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any beneficiary or dependent thereof) any rights, benefits or remedies of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement. No provision in this Agreement shall modify or amend any other agreement, plan, program, or document unless this Agreement explicitly states that the provision "amends" that other agreement, plan, program, or document. This shall not prevent the Parties entitled to enforce this Agreement from enforcing any provision in this Agreement, but no other person shall be entitled
Section 10.3
Non-Termination of Employment; No Third-Party Beneficiaries
 
to enforce any provision in this Agreement on the grounds that it is an amendment to another agreement, plan, program, or document unless the provision is explicitly designated as such in this Agreement, and the person is otherwise entitled to enforce the other agreement, plan, program, or document. If a person not entitled to enforce this Agreement brings a lawsuit or other action to enforce any provision in this Agreement as an amendment to another agreement, plan, program, or document, and that provision is construed to be such an amendment despite not being explicitly designated as one in this Agreement, that provision in this Agreement shall be void , thereby precluding it from having any amendatory effect. Furthermore, nothing in this Agreement is intended to confer upon any employee or former employee of CVC, MSG or either of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates any right to continued employment, or any recall or similar rights to an individual on layoff or any type of approved leave.
ab initio
     . If any provision of this Agreement is dependent on the consent of any third party and such consent is withheld, the Parties hereto shall use their reasonable best efforts to implement the applicable provisions of this Agreement to the fullest extent practicable. If any provision of this Agreement cannot be implemented due to the failure of such third party to consent, the Parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to implement the provision in a mutually satisfactory manner.
Section 10.4
Consent of Third Parties
     . Following the Distribution Date, CVC and MSG shall, or shall cause each of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates to, make available to each other those of their employees who may reasonably be needed in order to defend or prosecute any legal or administrative action (other than a legal action between any member of the CVC Group and any member of the MSG Group) to which any employee, director or Plan of the CVC Group or MSG Group is a party and which relates to their respective Plans prior to the Distribution Date.
Section 10.5
Access to Employees
     . To the extent permitted by applicable Law and except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement, all beneficiary designations, authorizations for the release of information and rights to reimbursement made by or relating to MSG Participants under CVC Plans shall be transferred to and be in full force and effect under the corresponding MSG Plans until such beneficiary designations, authorizations or rights are replaced or revoked by, or no longer apply, to the relevant MSG Participant.
Section 10.6
Beneficiary Designation/Release of Information/Right to Reimbursement
     . The Parties hereto acknowledge and agree that the transactions contemplated by the Distribution Agreement and this Agreement do not constitute a "change in control" for purposes of any CVC Plan or MSG Plan.
Section 10.7
Not a Change in Control
     Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Distribution Agreement is terminated prior to the Distribution Date, then all actions and events that are, under this Agreement, to be taken or occur effective immediately prior to or as of the Distribution Date, or otherwise in connection with the Distribution, shall not be taken or occur except to the extent specifically agreed to in writing by
Section 11.1
Effect If Distribution Does Not Occur
.
 
CVC and MSG and neither Party shall have any Liability to the other Party under this Agreement.
     This Agreement, including the Exhibits, shall constitute the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all previous negotiations, commitments and writings with respect to such subject matter.
Section 11.2
Complete Agreement; Construction
.
     This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more such counterparts have been signed by each of the Parties and delivered to the other Party.
Section 11.3
Counterparts
.
     Except as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement, all covenants and agreements of the Parties contained in this Agreement shall survive the Distribution Date.
Section 11.4
Survival of Agreements
.
     All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing, shall reference this Agreement and shall be hand delivered or mailed by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) to the Parties at the following addresses (or at such other addresses for a Party as shall be specified by like notice) and will be deemed given on the date on which such notice is received:
Section 11.5
Notices
.
To Cablevision:
Cablevision Systems Corporation 1111 Stewart Avenue Bethpage, New York 11714 Attention: General Counsel
To MSG:
Madison Square Garden, Inc. Two Penn Plaza New York, New York 10001 Attention: General Counsel
     The failure of any Party to require strict performance by any other Party of any provision in this Agreement will not waive or diminish that Party's right to demand strict performance thereafter of that or any other provision hereof.
Section 11.6
Waivers
.
     Subject to the terms of Sections 11.8 and 11.10 hereof, this Agreement may not be modified or amended except by an agreement in writing signed by each of the Parties.
Section 11.7
Amendments
.
 
     This Agreement shall not be assignable, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by any Party without the prior written consent of the other Party, and any attempt to assign any rights or obligations arising under this Agreement without such consent shall be void; provided that either Party may assign this Agreement to a purchaser of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of such Party so long as such purchaser expressly assumes, in a written instrument in form reasonably satisfactory to the non-assigning Party, the due and punctual performance or observance of every agreement and covenant of this Agreement on the part of the assigning Party to be performed or observed.
Section 11.8
Assignment
.
     The provisions to this Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Section 11.9
Successors and Assigns
.
     Each of the Parties shall cause to be performed, and hereby guarantees the performance of, all actions, agreements and obligations set forth herein to be performed by any entity that is contemplated to be a Subsidiary of such Party after the Distribution Date.
Section 11.10
Subsidiaries
.
     Titles and headings to Sections herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be a part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Section 11.11
Title and Headings
.
     This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York.
Section 11.12
Governing Law
.
     The Parties hereby irrevocably waive any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or related to this Agreement.
Section 11.13
Waiver of Jury Trial
.
     From and after the Distribution, in the event of any actual or threatened default in, or breach of, any of the terms, conditions and provisions of this Agreement, the Parties agree that the Party to this Agreement who is or is to be thereby aggrieved shall have the right to specific performance and injunctive or other equitable relief of its rights under this Agreement, in addition to any and all other rights and remedies at law or in equity, and all such rights and remedies shall be cumulative. The Parties agree that, from and after the Distribution, the remedies at law for any breach or threatened breach of this Agreement, including monetary damages, are inadequate compensation for any loss, that any defense in any action for specific performance that a remedy at law would be adequate is hereby waived, and that any requirements for the securing or posting of any bond with such remedy are hereby waived.
Section 11.14
Specific Performance
.
     In the event any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and therein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. The Parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions, the economic
Section 11.15
Severability
.
 
effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
 
     , the Parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
Exhibit A
     . Effective January 1, 2010, the amount of assets of the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust allocated to the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan in accordance with term (3) of this Exhibit A (the "") shall be deemed transferred to the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust, so that the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust shall own the CVC Allocation, determined in accordance with term (3) of this Exhibit A, and the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust shall own the MSG Allocation.
(1) 
Share of Trust Assets
MSG Allocation
     Except for benefit payments in the ordinary course, the assets of the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust shall remain in the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust until transferred pursuant to term (5) of this Exhibit A.
     . Effective January 1, 2010, the Transferred CVC Cash Balance Liability shall be deemed assigned to and assumed by the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan. From and after January 1, 2010, the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan shall be solely liable for, and the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan, the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust, the fiduciaries with respect to the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan and Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust, shall not have any liability for or with respect to, the Transferred CVC Cash Balance Liability. The Retained CVC Cash Balance Liability shall be retained by the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan. From and after January 1, 2010, the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan shall be solely liable for, and the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan, the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust, the fiduciaries with respect to the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan and MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust, shall not have any liability for or with respect to, the Retained CVC Cash Balance Liability.
(2) 
Assignment and Assumption of Benefit Liabilities
     .
(3) 
Valuation of Transferred Liabilities; Allocation of Assets
     (a) .
Valuation of Transferred Liabilities
          (i) Starting promptly after January 1, 2010, the pension actuary engaged by CVC to make the determinations provided for under this Exhibit A, who may be the CVC Actuary, shall determine the following:
               (A) The total accrued benefit obligation as of January 1, 2010 of the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan taking into account all participants; and
               (B) The total accrued benefit obligation as of January 1, 2010, taking into account only the MSG Cash Balance Plan Participants.
The accrued benefits determined in accordance with this paragraph (a) shall be allocated to the priority categories established under Section 4044 of ERISA, in accordance with the requirements of Section 414(l) of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
          (ii) The accrued benefit obligations described in subparagraphs (i)(A) and (i)(B) above shall be determined using the same data used to determine the funding target, within the meaning of Section 430(d)(1) of the Code and the regulations thereunder, as of January 1, 2010. The actuarial assumptions and methods used to determine the accrued benefit obligations
 
described in subparagraphs (i)(A) and (i)(B) above shall be those described in ERISA Section 4044 and the regulations thereunder.
          (iii) Upon completion, the CVC Actuary's determinations shall be presented for review and acceptance pursuant to and in accordance with term (4) of this Exhibit A.
     (b) .
Allocation of Assets
               (i) Starting promptly after January 1, 2010, the CVC Actuary shall determine:
                    (A) The MSG Allocation, which shall be determined taking into account only the Transferred CVC Cash Balance Liability; and
                    (B) The CVC Allocation, which shall be determined taking into account only the Retained CVC Cash Balance Liability.
               (ii) In making the foregoing determinations, the CVC Actuary shall apply the Minimum Standards, so that the MSG Allocation and the CVC Allocation shall each comply with the regulations under Section 414(l) of the Code, and the MSG Allocation shall not exceed the amount required to comply with the Minimum Standards.
     .
(4) 
Review Procedure
     (a) The CVC Actuary shall provide its final determinations under term (3) of this Exhibit A in writing to CVC, MSG and the MSG Actuary by May 31, 2010. Unless otherwise mutually agreed by CVC and MSG, MSG and the MSG Actuary shall have a period of 90 days from the date of delivery of the CVC Actuary's final determinations to review such determinations, and, during such time, CVC and the CVC Actuary shall make available such additional related information and analysis as MSG may reasonably request.
     (b) If MSG does not object to the CVC Actuary's final determinations under term (3) of this Exhibit A within 90 days of provision of such determinations, then the valuation of liabilities and allocation of assets shall be final and binding upon the parties, the valuation of liabilities described in term (3)(a)(i)(B) of this Exhibit A shall be the Transferred CVC Cash Balance Liability, and the allocation of assets to the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan described in term (3)(b)(i)(A) of this Exhibit A shall be the MSG Allocation.
     (c) If MSG objects, in whole or in part, to any or all of the CVC Actuary's final determinations under term (3) of this Exhibit A, CVC and MSG shall engage in good-faith negotiations to resolve the objection or objections. If any objections cannot be resolved, the parties shall cooperate to hire an independent actuary who will make a final determination on the objections presented. The determination of the value of liabilities described in term (3)(a)(i)(B) of this Exhibit A shall be the Transferred CVC Cash Balance Liability and the allocation of assets to the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan shall be the MSG Allocation. The fees and expenses of the independent actuary shall be borne equally between the parties.
     .
(5) 
Final Asset Transfer
 
     (a) As soon as reasonably practicable after the final determination of the Transferred CVC Cash Balance Liability and the MSG Allocation, but in all events within 15 business days after the latest of such determinations, CVC shall cause to be transferred from the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust to the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust an amount equal to the MSG Allocation as further adjusted pursuant to clause (b) of this term (5).
     (b) The amount of assets allocated to the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan and transferred to the MSG Cash Balance Pension Plan Trust shall be adjusted as follows:
                    (i) Increased or decreased to reflect a proportional amount of investment gains or losses from January 1, 2010 to the actual date of the final transfer;
                    (ii) Decreased by the full amount of benefits paid to or in connection with MSG Cash Balance Plan Participants by the Cablevision Cash Balance Pension Plan during the period from January 1, 2010 to the date of the transfer pursuant to term 5(a) of this Exhibit A; and
                    (iii) Increased by the vested account balance for employees who transfer from CVC to MSG during the period from January 1, 2010 to the date of the transfer pursuant to term 5(a) of this Exhibit A;
                    (iv) Decreased by the vested account balance for employees who transfer from MSG to CVC during the period from January 1, 2010 to the date of the transfer pursuant to term 5(a) of this Exhibit A; and
                    (v) Decreased by the amount of any administrative expenses paid by CVC on behalf of the MSG Cash Balance Plan.
 
Exhibit B
Madison Square Garden, L.P. Retirement Plan
Madison Square Garden, L.P. Retirement Plan for Licensed Ushers and Ticket Takers Local No. 176 of the Service Employees' International Union, AFL-CIO
Madison Square Garden, L.P. Network Retirement Plan for Collective Bargaining Employees
Madison Square Garden 401(k) Union Plan
Madison Square Garden, L.P. Excess Pension Plan
 
Exhibit C
Multi-Employer Benefit Plans with respect to the following unions:
 
Exhibit D
Cablevision CHOICEMedical Plan
Plus
Cablevision CHOICEDental Plan
Plus
Cablevision CHOICEVision Plan
Plus
Cablevision CHOICEGroup Legal Plan
Plus
Cablevision CHOICESalary Continuation Plan
Plus
Cablevision CHOICELong Term Disability Plan
Plus
Cablevision CHOICELife and AD&D Plan
Plus
Cablevision CHOICEEmployee Assistance Plan
Plus
Cablevision Transportation Plan
Cablevision College Savings Plan
Cablevision Fresh Start Policy
 
Exhibit E
Licensed Ushers & Ticket Takers Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO, Local 176
Special Officers & Guards Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO, Local 177
Theatrical Protective Union Local One, International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE)
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 3
International Union of Painters & Allied Trades, District Council 9
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 30
Service Employees International Union, Local 32B/32J International Brotherhood of Firemen & Oilers, Local 56
Treasurers & Ticket Sellers Local 751, IATSE
Theatrical Wardrobe Union Local 764, IATSE
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 817
Associated Musicians of Greater New York, American Federation of Musicians, Local 802
IATSE Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts of U.S., its territories and Canada
Theatrical Stage Employees Local 2 of IATSE and Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts of the U.S. and Canada
Theatrical Wardrobe Union Chicago Local 769

Exhibit 99.5
 
 
 
 
 
          Registration Rights Agreement (this "") dated as of January 13, 2010, by and among Cablevision Systems Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Charles F. Dolan Children Trusts, created under an Agreement dated December 22, 2009, between Kathleen M. Dolan, Paul J. Dolan, Matthew J. Dolan and Mary S. Dolan, as Grantors and Trustees (the ""), and the Qualifying Creditors, if any, who have agreed in writing to become bound by this Agreement. Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in Annex A hereto.
Agreement
Company
Children Trusts
          WHEREAS, as of the date of this Agreement, the Children Trusts own shares of Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock, par value $.01 per share (""), and shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("");
Class B Common Stock
Class A Common Stock
          WHEREAS, Cablevision Systems Company ("") was party to a Registration Rights Agreement (the ""), dated as of January 27, 1986, with CSC Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), as amended on May 31, 1989, and the Children Trusts have certain registration rights under that agreement with respect to shares of Class A Common Stock as provided in the CSCo Registration Rights Agreement;
CSCo
CSCo Registration Rights Agreement
CSC Holdings
          WHEREAS, the Company and the Children Trusts wish to supersede in its entirety the CSCo Registration Rights Agreement and provide for benefits and
 
restrictions applicable to the Shares owned by the Children Trust Holders, all as provided herein.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements contained herein, the parties hereby agree as follows:
          1. .
Conversion of Class B Common Stock into Class A Common Stock
          (a) . Subject to Section 1(b), (i) each Children Trust agrees that if at any time or from time to time it desires to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly (including, without limitation, any transfer or issuance of equity or beneficial interests in an entity that is a Children Trust Holder) (a ""), any or all of its shares of Class B Common Stock and (ii) each other Children Trust Holder agrees that if at any time or from time to time it desires to Transfer any or all of its CSCo Shares, such Children Trust or Children Trust Holder, as the case may be, shall convert such shares of Class B Common Stock into shares of Class A Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company immediately prior to such Transfer. Subject to Section 1(b), the Company shall be under no obligation to record the Transfer on its books of such shares of Class B Common Stock until they have been converted into Class A Common Stock.
Transfers Requiring Conversion
Transfer
          (b) . The provisions of subparagraph (a) of this Section 1 are inapplicable to (i) any Transfer of shares of Class B Common Stock (including any Transfer of equity or beneficial interests in an entity that is a Children Trust Holder) to Dolan, his spouse, any person related to Dolan by reason of
Permissible Transfers Without Conversion
 
being his ancestor or descendent (natural or adopted), any Acceptable Marital Trust, any entity (whether a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity of any kind) all of the equity or beneficial interests in which are owned or held by any of the foregoing persons, or any person (whether or not such person is one of the foregoing persons) who is a trustee for, or is acting on behalf of, any of such foregoing persons, and (ii) any bona fide pledge or similar perfected security interest relating to any interest in any of the foregoing persons (an "") or to Collateral Stock, in either case for the benefit of any Creditor; , , that the Transfer shall not be permissible and shall be void for all purposes unless (x) in the case of a Transfer referred to in clause (i) the transferee executes a joinder agreement in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (it being understood that, if such transferee is also a successor to a Children Trust, neither the obligation to execute, nor the execution of, such a joinder agreement shall limit the effect of the first sentence of Section 10(d)), and (y) in the case of a Transfer referred to in clause (ii), (A) such shares of Collateral Stock or, in the case of an Indirect Pledge, such interests in such other person remain registered solely in the name of one or more Children Trust Holders, and (B) any such Creditor agrees with the Company in a writing reasonably acceptable to the Company not to foreclose on, or otherwise make use of or exercise remedies with respect to, or effect any Transfer of, the Collateral Stock or, in the case of an Indirect Pledge, such interests, without prior conversion of the shares of Collateral Stock or, in the case of an Indirect Pledge, the shares of Class B Common Stock owned by the person the interests in which are the subject of the Indirect Pledge into shares of Class A Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, and
Indirect Pledge
provided
however
 
that the last sentence of paragraph (a) of this Section 1 shall remain applicable to any shares of Class B Common Stock that are the subject of a Transfer, including any pledge or the creation of any security interest, pursuant to this Section 1(b).
provided
further
          (c) . All certificates representing shares of Class B Common Stock that are covered by this Agreement shall have endorsed thereon a legend which shall read substantially as follows:
Legends
"The shares represented by this certificate are held subject to the terms of a certain Registration Rights Agreement, dated January 13, 2010, by and among Cablevision Systems Corporation and the Charles F. Dolan Children Trusts, as amended from time to time, a copy of which is on file with the Secretary of Cablevision Systems Corporation, and such shares may not be sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of, directly or indirectly, except in accordance with the terms of such Registration Rights Agreement."
          2. .
Demand Registration by the Children Trust Parties of the Shares
          (a) . One or more of the Children Trust Parties may request in writing, with the prior written consent (the "") of (i) Dolan, (ii) if Dolan is deceased or disabled, of his widow or (iii) if both Dolan and his wife are deceased or disabled, the Dolan Family Committee, that the Company file a registration statement on an appropriate form for the general registration of securities under the Securities Act, and include therein such number of the Shares owned by such Children Trust Party as such person may specify in its written request; , , that (x) the Company shall not be required to file a registration statement pursuant to this Section 2 if (A) the Shares requested to be so registered do not, in the case of a Children Trust Holder, together with any Shares timely requested to be registered by other Children
Demand Registration
Dolan Consent
provided
however
 
Trust Holders and Other Holders pursuant to the third-to-last sentence of this Section 2(a), have an aggregate Market Price exceeding the Rule 144 Threshold as of the Trading Day immediately preceding the expiration of the applicable Notice Period under such sentence or, in the case of a Qualifying Creditor, do not have an aggregate Market Price exceeding the Rule 144 Threshold as of the Trading Day immediately preceding the date on which the request for registration is received by the Company, or (B) the Company delivers to each Children Trust Party requesting registration under this Section 2 an opinion of counsel to the Company (such opinion and such counsel to be reasonably acceptable to each such Children Trust Party, it being agreed that the Company's regular outside securities counsel shall be deemed to be reasonably acceptable counsel for this purpose) to the effect that the Shares proposed to be registered by such person may be offered and sold by such person to the public in the United States together with the Shares requested to be registered by all other Children Trust Parties and Other Holders (I) without registration pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and (II) within the volume limitations under Rule 144(e) promulgated under the Securities Act (or any successor rule or regulation) whether or not such volume limitations are then applicable, (y) subject to the next sentence, after the death of both Dolan and his spouse, the Children Trust Holders shall in the aggregate have the right on only four occasions to require the Company to file a registration statement pursuant to this Section 2, and (z) subject to the next sentence, a Qualifying Creditor may require registration only following the exercise of its remedies under a security agreement with a Children Trust Holder and for the purpose of Transferring Shares pursuant thereto and each Qualifying Creditor may only require one registration hereunder. The total number
 
of demand registrations under clauses (y) and (z) of the immediately preceding sentence and under the corresponding provisions of the Dolan Registration Rights Agreement shall not exceed four. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, it is understood and agreed that the Dolan Consent may be granted by the person or entity then entitled to grant such consent with respect to a Qualifying Creditor at the time the pledge or similar security arrangement applicable to such Qualifying Creditor is created, and that such consent will thereafter constitute an irrevocable Dolan Consent for any future request by such Qualifying Creditor for a registration under this Section 2, whether or not the person or entity that granted such Dolan Consent is the person or entity otherwise entitled to grant Dolan Consents at the time such request is actually exercised. All requests made pursuant to this paragraph shall specify the aggregate number of Shares to be registered and the intended methods of disposition thereof, which methods may include an underwritten public offering. Upon receipt of a written request for registration from a Children Trust Holder pursuant to the preceding sentences, the Company shall promptly give written notice of the proposed registration to each such other Children Trust Holder and each Other Holder and provide each such other holder with the opportunity to join in such request by written notice to the Company specifying the aggregate number of Shares to be registered by such holder within 20 days from the date of the Company's written notice (such period is referred to as the ""). Subject to Section 2(c) of this Agreement, the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to ensure that each registration statement required to be filed pursuant to this Section 2 shall be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") as promptly as reasonably practicable, but not later than 45 days after
Notice Period
Commission
 
receipt of such request by the Company, and the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective by the Commission as promptly thereafter as practicable; , , that the Company shall not be required to maintain such effectiveness for more than 90 days. Notwithstanding the Company's rights to effect a Suspension of Filing or Suspension of Effectiveness in Section 2(c), the Children Trust Parties that made the registration request under this Section 2(a) shall have the right to withdraw any such request, and such withdrawn request shall not count as a demand registration under clause (y) or (z) of this Section 2(a) or the corresponding provisions under the Dolan Registration Rights Agreement, if (1) the registration statement required to be filed pursuant to this Section 2 is not filed with the Commission by the date that is 45 days after such request is received by the Company and has not at the time of such withdrawal been filed with the Commission, or is not declared effective by the date that is 90 days after the date such registration statement is filed with the Commission and has not at the time of such withdrawal been declared effective, and (2) in either case, such Children Trust Parties notify the Company of the withdrawal of such request no later than 10 days after such 45 or 90 day, as the case may be.
provided
however
th
th
          (b) . Anything in this Section 2 to the contrary notwithstanding, if the Company at the time of receipt of a request for registration pursuant to this Section 2 has a bona fide intent and plan to file a registration statement (other than on Form S-4 or S-8 or any successor forms) covering a primary offering by the Company of its Common Equity Securities, the Company, by notice to the applicable Children Trust Parties, may delay the filing (but not the preparation) of the
Concurrent Primary Offering
 
requested registration statement for a period ending on the earlier of (i) 60 days after the closing of such offering or (ii) 120 days after receipt of the request for registration; and, , , if the Company either abandons its plan to file such registration statement or does not file the same within 75 days after receipt of such request, the Company shall promptly thereafter file the requested registration statement. The Company may not, pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, delay the filing of a requested registration statement more than once during any two-year period.
provided
further
          (c) . Upon notice by the Company to any Children Trust Party which has requested registration under this Section 2 that a negotiation or consummation of a transaction by the Company or any of its subsidiaries is pending or an event has occurredwhich negotiation, consummation or event would require disclosure in the registration statement for the requested registration and such disclosure would, in the good faith judgment of the board of directors of the Company, be materially adverse to the business interests of the Company, and the nondisclosure of which in the registration statement would reasonably be expected to cause the registration statement to fail to comply with applicable disclosure requirements (a ""), the Company may delay the filing (but not the preparation) of such registration statement (a ""). Upon the delivery of a Materiality Notice by the Company pursuant to the preceding sentence at any time when a registration statement has been filed but not declared effective, the Company may delay seeking the effectiveness of such registration statement (a ""), and each Children Trust Party named therein shall immediately discontinue any offers of Shares under such registration statement until such Children Trust Party receives copies of a
Suspension of Offering
,
Materiality Notice
Suspension of Filing
Suspension of Effectiveness
 
supplemented or amended prospectus that corrects such misstatement or omission, or until it is advised in writing by the Company that offers under such registration statement may be resumed and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings which are incorporated by reference in such registration statement. Upon the delivery of a Materiality Notice by the Company pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 2(c) at any time when a registration statement has been filed and declared effective, each Children Trust Party named therein shall immediately discontinue offers and sales of Shares under such registration statement until such Children Trust Party receives copies of a supplemented or amended prospectus that corrects such misstatement or omission and notice that any post-effective amendment has become effective, or until it is advised in writing by the Company that offers under such registration statement may be resumed and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings which are incorporated by reference in the registration statement (a ";" a Suspension of Filing, a Suspension of Effectiveness and a Suspension of Offering are collectively referred to herein as, ""). If so directed by the Company, each Children Trust Party will deliver to the Company all copies (other than permanent file copies then in such Children Trust Party's possession) of any prospectus covering Shares in the possession of such Children Trust Party or its agents current at the time of receipt of any Materiality Notice. In any 12-month period, the aggregate time of all Suspensions shall not, without the consent of a majority of the Children Trust Holders (by number of Shares held), which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, exceed 180 days. If interrupted by a Suspension of Offering, any ninety (90) day period in respect of which the Company is required to maintain the effectiveness of a registration statement pursuant to Section
Suspension of Offering
Suspensions
 
2(a) of this Agreement shall be extended by the number of days during which the Suspension of Offering was in effect. In the event of any Suspension of Offering of more than 30 days in duration prior to which the Children Trust Parties have sold less than 75% of the Shares to be sold in such offering, the Children Trust Parties shall be entitled to withdraw such registration prior to the later of (i) the end of the Suspension of Offering and (ii) three business days after the Company has provided the Dolan Family Parties written notice of the anticipated date on which the Suspension of Offering will end, and, if such registration is withdrawn, the related demand for registration shall not count for the purposes of the limitations set forth under clauses (y) and (z) of Section 2(a) or the comparable provisions under the Dolan Registration Rights Agreement.
          (d) For purposes of this Section 2:
Market Price; Trading Day.
          (i) "" of a share of Class A Common Stock shall mean the weighted average of the closing prices for the Class A Common Stock on each Trading Day (as defined below) in the 30-day period ending on the day prior to the date of determination as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system of the New York Stock Exchange or on the comparable reporting system of such other exchange or trading system that is at the time the principal market for the Class A Common Stock.
Market Price
          (ii) "" shall mean any day on which trading takes place on the New York Stock Exchange or such other exchange or trading system that is at the time the principal market for the Class A Common Stock.
Trading Day
 
          3. .
Coordination of PiggyBack Registration Rights
          Each of the Children Trust Parties hereby acknowledges and consents to the grant by the Company to the Dolan Family Affiliate Holders (as defined in the Dolan Registration Rights Agreement and hereinafter referred to in this Agreement as the ""), in the Dolan Registration Rights Agreement, of the right of the Other Holders to include certain of their respective shares of Class A Common Stock in certain registration statements filed pursuant hereto. Each of the Children Trust Parties further acknowledges and agrees that if any offering hereunder is to be underwritten and if the managing underwriter or underwriters of such offering informs such person in writing that the number of shares of Class A Common Stock which the Children Trust Parties, and the Other Holders, as the case may be, intend to include in such offering is sufficiently large so as to affect the offering price of such offering materially and adversely, then the respective number of shares of Class A Common Stock to be offered for the account of each Children Trust Party and each Other Holder, as the case may be, who is participating in such offering shall be reduced pro rata to the extent necessary to reduce the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock to be included in such offering to the number recommended by such managing underwriter. Except for such piggyback registration rights granted to Other Holders, and to any transferee of the shares of Class A Common Stock owned by an Other Holder which may be registered pursuant to the Dolan Registration Rights Agreement, neither the Company nor any of its security holders shall have the right to include any of the Company's securities in any registration statement filed pursuant hereto.
Other Holders
 
          4. .
Piggyback Registration of the Shares
          If the Company proposes to file a registration statement under the Securities Act with respect to an offering (a) by an Other Holder of its holdings of Class A Common Stock pursuant to the Dolan Registration Rights Agreement, (b) by any other holder of any Common Equity Securities or (c) by the Company for its own account of any Common Equity Securities (other than a registration statement on Form S-4 or S-8, or any successor form or a form filed in connection with an exchange offer or an offering of securities solely to the existing stockholders of the Company), the Company shall give written notice of such proposed filing to each of the Children Trust Holders at least 20 days before the anticipated filing date which shall state whether such registration will be in connection with an underwritten offering and offer such Children Trust Holders the opportunity, subject to obtaining Dolan's consent, if he is not then deceased or disabled, to include in such registration statement such number of the Shares as such Children Trust Holder may request within three days prior to the anticipated filing date. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the managing underwriter or underwriters of a proposed underwritten offering to permit such Children Trust Holders to be included in the registration for such offering and to include such Shares in such offering on the same terms and conditions as the Common Equity Securities included in such offering. If such proposed offering is to be underwritten, then upon request by the managing underwriter or underwriters given to such Children Trust Holders prior to the effective date of the offering, any Children Trust Holder electing to have Shares included in the registration statement shall either enter into underwriting agreements with customary terms and conditions for a secondary offering with such underwriter or
 
underwriters providing for the inclusion of such number of the Shares owned by such Children Trust Holder in such offering on such terms and conditions or, if such Children Trust Holder shall refuse to enter into any such agreement, the Company shall have the right to exclude from such registration all (but not less than all) of the Shares of such Children Trust Holder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) in no event will any Children Trust Holder be required in such underwriting agreement (or in any other agreement in connection with such offering) to (i) make any representations or warranties to or agreements with the underwriters other than representations, warranties or agreements customarily made by selling securityholders in underwritten secondary offerings, (ii) make any representations or warranties to or agreements with the Company other than representations, warranties or agreements regarding such Children Trust Holder, the ownership of such Children Trust Holder's Common Equity Securities, the authorization, validity and binding effect of transaction documents executed by such Children Trust Holder in connection with such registration and such Children Trust Holder's intended method or methods of distribution and any other representation required by law; provided that no Children Trust Holder shall be required to make any representation or warranty to any person covered by the indemnity in Section 8(b) other than on a several (and not joint) basis, or (iii) furnish any indemnity to any person which is broader than the indemnity customarily furnished by selling security holders in underwritten offerings; provided that no Children Trust Holder shall be required to furnish any indemnity broader than the indemnity furnished by such Children Trust Holder in Section 8(b) to any person covered by the indemnity in Section 8(b), and (y) if the managing underwriter or underwriters of such offering informs the Children Trust Holders in writing that the
 
number of Shares which the Children Trust Holders and the number of Shares which the Other Holders intend to include in such offering is sufficiently large so as to affect materially and adversely the success of such offering, the Shares to be offered for the account of the Children Trust Holders and the Other Holders shall first be reduced pro rata to the extent necessary to reduce the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock to be included in such offering to the number recommended by such managing underwriter. In giving effect to the foregoing reduction, the respective number of the Shares to be offered for the account of Children Trust Holders shall be reduced pro rata.
          5. .
Holdback Agreements
          (a) . To the extent not inconsistent with applicable law, each Children Trust Party agrees not to offer publicly or effect any public sale or distribution of Common Equity Securities, including a sale pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor rule or regulation), during the seven days prior to, and during the 90-day period beginning on, the effective date of any registration statement filed by the Company pursuant to which any such shares or securities are being registered (except as part of such registration), if and to the extent requested by the Company in the case of a non-underwritten public offering or if and to the extent requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters in the case of an underwritten public offering.
Restrictions on Public Sale by Children Trust Parties
          (b) . The Company agrees (i) that during the seven days prior to, and during the 90-day period beginning on, the effective date of any registration statement filed at the request of a Children Trust Party pursuant hereto, the Company will not offer publicly or effect any
Restrictions on Public Sale by the Company and Others
 
public sale or distribution of Common Equity Securities (other than any such sale or distribution of such securities in connection with any merger or consolidation of the Company or any subsidiary with, or the acquisition by the Company or a subsidiary of the capital stock or substantially all of the assets of, any other person or any offer or sale of such securities pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-8), and (ii) that any agreement entered into after the date of this Agreement pursuant to which the Company issues or agrees to issue any privately placed Common Equity Securities shall contain a provision under which holders of such securities agree not to effect any public sale or distribution of any such securities during the periods described in (i) above, in each case including a sale pursuant to Rule 144 (or any successor rule or regulation) under the Securities Act (except as part of any such registration, if permitted).
          6. .
Registration Procedures
          In connection with any registration of the Shares owned by a Children Trust Party contemplated hereby, the Company will as expeditiously as possible:
          (a) Furnish to such Children Trust Party, prior to filing a registration statement, copies of such registration statement as proposed to be filed, and thereafter such number of copies of such registration statement, each amendment and supplement thereto (in each case including all exhibits thereto), the prospectus included in such registration statement (including each preliminary prospectus) and such other documents in such quantities as such Children Trust Party may reasonably request from time to time in order to facilitate the disposition of the Shares.
          (b) Use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify the Shares being registered as contemplated hereby (the "") under such other
Registered Class A
 
securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as such Children Trust Party reasonably requests and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable such Children Trust Party to consummate the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Registered Class A; that the Company will not be required to (i) qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this paragraph (b), (ii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction, or (iii) consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction.
provided
          (c) Use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Registered Class A to be registered with or approved by such other governmental agencies or authorities as may be necessary by virtue of the business and operations of the Company to enable such Children Trust Party to consummate the disposition of such Registered Class A.
          (d) Notify such Children Trust Party at any time, (i) of any request by the Commission or any other federal or state governmental authority for amendments or supplements to a registration statement or related prospectus or for additional information, (ii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a registration statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iii) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of any of the Registered Class A for sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose, and (iv) when a prospectus relating thereto is required to be delivered under the Securities Act, of the happening of any event as a result of which the prospectus included in such registration statement contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary
 
to make the statements therein not misleading, and, except as otherwise provided in Section 2(c) hereof, the Company will, as expeditiously as practicable, prepare a supplement or amendment to such prospectus so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of such Registered Class A, such prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
          (e) Use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a registration statement, or the lifting of any suspension of the qualification (or exemption from qualification) of any of the Registered Class A for sale in any jurisdiction at the earliest date reasonably practical.
          (f) Cause all such Registered Class A to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or on any other securities exchange on which the Class A Common Stock is then listed, that the applicable listing requirements are satisfied.
provided
          (g) Enter into customary agreements (including an underwriting agreement in customary form) and take such other actions as are reasonably requested by the relevant Children Trust Party in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of the Registered Class A.
          (h) Make available for inspection by such Children Trust Party, any underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such registration statement, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by such Children Trust Party or such underwriter (collectively, the ""), all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company (collectively, the "") as shall be reasonably necessary to enable them to exercise their due diligence responsibility, and
Inspectors
Records
 
cause the officers, directors and employees of the Company to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector in connection with such registration statement. Records which the Company determines, in good faith, to be confidential and which it notifies the Inspectors are confidential shall not be disclosed by the Inspectors unless (i) the disclosure of such Records is necessary to avoid or correct a misstatement or omission in the registration statement or (ii) the release of such Records is ordered pursuant to a subpoena or other order from a court of competent jurisdiction. Any Children Trust Party shall use reasonable best efforts, prior to any disclosure by any such Inspector under clause (i) of the preceding sentence, to inform the Company that such disclosure is necessary to avoid or correct a misstatement or omission in the registration statement. Each Children Trust Party further agrees that it will, upon learning that disclosure of Records is sought in a court of competent jurisdiction, give notice to the Company and allow the Company, at the expense of the Company, to undertake appropriate action to prevent disclosure of the Records deemed confidential.
          (i) In the event such sale is pursuant to an underwritten offering, use its reasonable best efforts to (i) obtain a comfort letter from the independent public accountants for the Company in customary form and covering such matters of the type customarily covered by such letters as any Children Trust Party reasonably requests and (ii) ensure that (A) the representations, warranties and covenants contained in the applicable underwriting agreement shall expressly be for the benefit of any Children Trust Party participating in such sale, (B) the conditions to closing in said underwriting agreement shall be reasonably satisfactory to such Children Trust Party and (C) to the extent customary, all comfort letters and opinions of counsel contemplated by said
 
underwriting agreements are delivered to such Children Trust Party on the closing date of the offering.
          (j) Otherwise use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and have the registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable after filing.
          The Company may require any Children Trust Party to furnish to the Company such information regarding such Children Trust Party as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing, in each case only as required by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder.
          Each Children Trust Party agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 6(d) hereof, such Children Trust Party will forthwith discontinue disposition of the Registered Class A pursuant to the registration statement covering such Registered Class A until such Children Trust Party receives the copies of the supplemented or amended prospectus contemplated by Section 6(d) hereof, and, if so directed by the Company, such Children Trust Party will deliver to the Company (at the expense of the Company) all copies, other than permanent file copies then in such Children Trust Party's possession, of the prospectus covering such Registered Class A current at the time of receipt of such notice. If interrupted by receipt of any such notice pursuant to Section 6(d), any 90 day period in respect of which the Company is required to maintain the effectiveness of a registration statement pursuant to Section 2(a) shall be extended by the number of days during which the interruption was in effect.
 
          7. .
Registration Expenses
          Other than in the case of (a) a registration at the request of a Qualifying Creditor or (b) a demand registration under Section 2(a)(iii) after the second such registration (each registration referred to in clause (a) or (b), a ""), all expenses incident to the performance of or compliance with this Agreement by the Company, including, without limitation, all registration and filing fees, fees and expenses of compliance with securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel in connection with blue sky qualifications of the Registered Class A), printing expenses, messenger and delivery expenses, internal expenses (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the Registered Class A on the New York Stock Exchange or any other securities exchange on which such Class A Common Stock is then listed, fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and its independent certified public accountants (including the expenses of any special audit or comfort letters required by or incident to such performance), securities acts liability insurance (if the Company elects to obtain such insurance), the fees and expenses of any special experts retained by the Company in connection with such registration, the fees and expenses of other persons retained by the Company, including transfer agents, trustees, depositories and registrars (all such expenses being herein called ""), will be borne by the Company. In the case of a Designated Registration, all Registration Expenses other than internal expenses of the Company and securities acts liability insurance obtained by the Company at its election, shall be borne by the Qualifying Creditor or the Children Trust
Designated Registration
Registration Expenses
 
Holders participating in the offering, as the case may be. The Company will not have any responsibility for any of the expenses of any Children Trust Party incurred in connection with any registration statement hereunder, including, without limitation, underwriting discounts or commissions attributable to the sale of Registered Class A and fees and expenses of counsel for such Children Trust Party.
          8. .
Indemnification; Contribution
          (a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by law, (i) each Children Trust Party, (ii) the directors, officers, partners, employees, agents, beneficiaries, trustees, members and affiliates of each Children Trust Party, and the directors, officers, partners, employees and agents of each such affiliate, and (iii) each person who controls any of the foregoing (within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act), and any investment adviser thereof, against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, expenses (or actions or proceedings in respect thereof) or costs (including, without limitation, costs of investigation and reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements incurred by any such indemnified person in connection with enforcing its rights hereunder preparing, pursuing or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense, action or proceeding), including any of the foregoing incurred in settlement of any litigation commenced or threatened (collectively, ""), joint or several, based upon or arising out of (x) any untrue or alleged untrue statement of material fact contained in any registration statement, prospectus, preliminary prospectus, summary prospectus or amendment or supplement thereto, (y) any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the
Indemnification by the Company
Losses
 
statements therein (in the case of a prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, or (z) any violation by the Company of any federal, state or common law rule or regulation applicable to the Company in connection with such registration, and the Company will reimburse each such indemnified party for any such Loss, except in each case insofar as any such Loss arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or omission made in any such registration statement, prospectus, preliminary prospectus, final prospectus, summary prospectus, amendment or supplement, or a violation of law or regulation in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such indemnified party expressly for use in the preparation thereof, it being understood that the information to be furnished to the Company for use in the preparation of any such document shall be limited only to the information specifically referenced in the penultimate sentence of Section 8(b). Such indemnity shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by such indemnified person and shall survive the Transfer of any Shares by any such indemnified person. The indemnity in this Section 8(a) shall not apply to Losses incurred by a person other than in his or her capacity as a selling security holder. In connection with an underwritten offering, the Company will indemnify the underwriters thereof, their officers and directors and each person who controls such underwriters (within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act) to the same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of each Children Trust Party.
          (b) . In connection with any registration statement contemplated hereby, each Children Trust Party participating in any offer or sale pursuant to such registration statement will furnish to the Company in
Indemnification by Children Trust Parties
 
writing such information with respect to such Children Trust Party as the Company reasonably requests for use in connection with any such registration statement, prospectus, preliminary prospectus, summary prospectus or amendment or supplement thereto and agrees to indemnify and hold harmless, severally, and not jointly, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Company, its directors, officers, employees, agents and affiliates and the directors, officers, partners, employees and agents of each such affiliate and each person who controls the Company (within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act) against any Losses insofar as such Losses arise out of or are based upon (i) an untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any such registration statement, prospectus, preliminary prospectus, summary prospectus or amendment or supplement thereto or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of a prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, to the extent, that such untrue statement or omission is contained in or omitted from any information with respect to such Children Trust Party so furnished in writing by such Children Trust Party expressly for use in the preparation of such registration statement, prospectus, preliminary prospectus, summary prospectus or amendment or supplement thereto, as the case may be, or (ii) any violation by such Children Trust Party of any federal, state or common law rule or regulation applicable to such Children Trust Party in connection with such registration. It is understood that the information to be furnished by a Children Trust Party to the Company for use in the preparation of any such document shall be limited only to information regarding such Children Trust Party, the ownership of such Children Trust Party's Common Equity
 
Securities, such Children Trust Party's intended method or methods of distribution and any other information required by law. The liability of a Children Trust Party under this Section 8(b) shall not exceed the amount of net proceeds received by such Children Trust Party (net of underwriting discounts borne by such Children Trust Party) from the sale of the Shares in the offering that is the subject of an indemnity claim under this Section 8(b).
          (c) . Any person entitled to indemnification hereunder agrees to give prompt written notice to the indemnifying party after the receipt by such person of any written notice of the commencement of any action, suit, proceeding or investigation or threat thereof made in writing for which such person will claim indemnification or contribution pursuant to this Agreement, provided that the failure of any indemnified party to give notice as provided herein shall not relieve the indemnified party of its obligations under this Section 8, except to the extent that the indemnifying party is materially prejudiced by such failure to give notice. Unless in the reasonable judgment of such indemnified party, a conflict of interest may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party with respect to such claim, the indemnified party shall permit the indemnifying party to assume the defense of such claim with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party. If the indemnifying party is not entitled to, or elects not to, assume the defense of a claim, it will not be obligated to pay the fees and expenses of more than one counsel with respect to such claim, unless in the reasonable judgment of any indemnified party a conflict of interest may exist between such indemnified party and any other of such indemnified parties with respect to such claim, in which event the indemnifying party shall be
Conduct of Indemnification Proceedings
 
obligated to pay the fees and expenses of such additional counsel or counsels. No indemnifying party will be subject to any liability for any settlement made without its consent. No indemnifying party, in the defense of any such claim or litigation shall, except with the consent of the applicable indemnified party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, consent to entry of any judgment or enter into any settlement which does not include as an unconditional term thereof the giving by the claimant or plaintiff to such indemnified party of a release from all liability in respect of such claim or litigation.
          (d) . Any indemnification required to be made by an indemnifying party pursuant to this Section 8 shall be made by periodic payments to the indemnified party during the course of the action or proceeding, as and when bills are received by such indemnifying party with respect to indemnifiable Losses incurred by such indemnified party.
Indemnification Payments
          (e) . If the indemnification provided for in this Section 8 from the indemnifying party is unavailable to an indemnified party hereunder in respect of any Losses or is insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party from all Losses covered thereby, then the indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such Losses in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the indemnifying party and indemnified parties in connection with the actions which resulted in such Losses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of such indemnifying party and indemnified parties shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or
Contribution
 
omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by such indemnifying party or indemnified parties, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statements or omissions. The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with any investigation or proceeding.
          The parties hereto agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(e) were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take into account the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
          Notwithstanding anything else contained herein, (i) no party shall be liable for contribution under this Section 8(e) except to the extent and under such circumstances as such party would have been liable to indemnify under this Section 8 if such indemnification were enforceable under applicable law and (ii) no Children Trust Party (or related indemnified party) shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which net the proceeds received by such Children Trust Party (net of underwriting discounts borne by such Children Trust Party) from the sale of Shares in the offering that is the subject of the claim for contribution exceeds the amount of any damages which such Children Trust Party (or related indemnified party) would have been
 
required to pay by reason of the indemnity under this Section 8 if such indemnification was enforceable under applicable law.
          If indemnification is available under this Section 8, the indemnifying parties shall indemnify each indemnified party to the full extent provided in Sections 8(a) and (b) without regard to the relative fault of said indemnifying party or indemnified party or any other equitable consideration provided for in this Section 8(e).
          9. . A Children Trust Party may not participate in any underwritten registration hereunder or under the Dolan Registration Rights Agreement or otherwise unless such Children Trust Party (a) agrees to sell the Shares on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements with customary terms and conditions for a secondary offering approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements, provided that none of the foregoing shall in any way limit the obligations of the Company under Section 8.
Participation in Underwritten Registrations
          10. .
Miscellaneous
          (a) . The Company and each Children Trust Party acknowledge that it will be impossible to measure in money the damage to the Company if such Children Trust Party fails to comply with any of the obligations imposed by Section 1 of this Agreement, that every such obligation therein is material and that, in the event of any such failure, the Company will not have an adequate remedy at law or in damages. Accordingly, each Children Trust Party consents to the issuance of an injunction or the enforcement of other equitable remedies against it at the suit of the
Specific Performance
 
Company without bond or other security, to compel performance by such Children Trust Party of all the terms of Section 1 hereof, and waives any defenses of (i) failure of consideration, (ii) breach of any other provision of this Agreement and (iii) availability of relief in damages.
          (b) . The Company will not hereafter enter into any agreement with respect to its securities which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Children Trust Parties in this Agreement.
No Inconsistent Agreements
          (c) . This Agreement may not be amended, modified or altered except by a writing duly signed by the party against which such amendment or modification is sought to be enforced.
Amendments
          (d) . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, the Children Trust Parties and the respective successors and permitted assigns of the Company and the Children Trust Parties. This Agreement may not be assigned by either the Company or a Children Trust Party without the prior written consent of the other party hereto. The Company shall assign its rights and obligations hereunder to any entity that succeeds to all or substantially all of its assets, by merger or otherwise, including to any holding company that may be formed to be the parent of the Company, if such entity becomes the issuer of the securities then owned by the Children Trust Holders.
Successors and Assigns
          (e) . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
          (f) . The headings in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not constitute a part hereof.
Headings
          (g)
Construction
. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the internal laws of the State of New York without giving any effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
          (h) . Any notice required or desired to be delivered hereunder shall be () in writing, () delivered by personal delivery, sent by commercial delivery service or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by facsimile or electronic mail, () deemed to have been given on the date of personal delivery, the date set forth in the records of the delivery service or return receipt, or in the case of facsimile or electronic mail, upon dispatch, and () addressed as designated on hereto (or to such other address as the party entitled to notice shall hereafter designate in accordance with the terms hereof), with copies as designated on hereto.
Notices
i
ii
iii
iv
Schedule 1
Schedule 1
          (i) . If any provision of this Agreement or the application of any provision hereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected unless the provision held invalid shall substantially impair the benefits of the remaining portions of this Agreement.
Severability
          (j) . This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and is intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings (including under the CSCo Registration Rights Agreement), other than
Entire Agreement
 
those set forth or referred to herein. This Agreement supersedes in its entirety the CSCo Registration Rights Agreement and all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter. Without limiting the foregoing, the CSCo Registration Rights Agreement shall be of no further force or effect whatsoever.
          (k) . In any action or proceeding brought to enforce any provision of this Agreement, or where any provision hereof is validly asserted as a defense, the successful party shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys' fees in addition to any other available remedy.
Attorneys' Fees
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first written above.
 
Annex A
:
Definitions
          "" means a marital trust the income of which is for the benefit of any spouse of any descendant of Dolan and the principal of which (including all shares of Class B Common Stock held by such trust) is for the sole benefit of any descendant of Dolan.
Acceptable Marital Trust
          "" means the Children Trusts and any transferee of shares of Class B Common Stock pursuant to clause (i) of Section 1(b).
Children Trust Holders
          "" means all Children Trust Holders and any Qualifying Creditor.
Children Trust Parties
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Recitals.
Children Trusts
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Recitals.
Class A Common Stock
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Recitals.
Class B Common Stock
          "" means shares of Class B Common Stock that are the subject of a bona fide pledge or similar perfected security interest.
Collateral Stock
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2(a) hereof.
Commission
          "" means shares of any class of common stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of any class of common stock of the Company.
Common Equity Securities
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Recitals.
Company
          "" means any financial institution approved by the Company, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
Creditor
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Recitals.
CSC Holdings
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Recitals.
CSCo
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Recitals.
CSCo Registration Rights Agreement
          "" means shares of Class B Common Stock that were owned at any time by CSCo, CFD Joint Venture or MAC TRUST GROUP or issued by the Company in respect of such shares as a result of any stock split, stock dividend or other recapitalization.
CSCo Shares
 
          "" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7 hereof.
Designated Registration
          "" means Charles F. Dolan; such term does not include Mr. Dolan's legal representatives or his estate.
Dolan
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2(a) hereof.
Dolan Consent
          "" means the Dolan Family Committee established pursuant to the Amended and Restated Cablevision Class B Stockholders Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2010, by and among each of the holders of the Class B Common Stock, as the same may be amended, modified or amended and restated from time to time.
Dolan Family Committee
          "" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the Company, Charles F. Dolan, Helen A. Dolan, the Charles F. Dolan 2009 Family Trusts, the Charles F. Dolan 2009 Revocable Trust, the Charles F. Dolan 2008 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #2, the Charles F. Dolan 2009 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #1, the Charles F. Dolan 2009 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #2, the Charles F. Dolan 2009 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #3, the Charles F. Dolan 2010 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #1, the Helen A. Dolan 2009 Revocable Trust, the Helen A. Dolan 2009 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #1, the Helen A. Dolan 2009 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #2, the Helen A. Dolan 2010 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #1 and the other parties thereto.
Dolan Registration Rights Agreement
          "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 6(g) hereof.
Inspectors
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 8(a) hereof.
Losses
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2(d) hereof.
Market Price
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2(c) hereof.
Materiality Notice
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 3 hereof.
Other Holders
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Recitals.
Public Offering
          "" means a Creditor who has, at the written request of a Children Trust Holder, signed an instrument in form reasonably acceptable to the Company agreeing to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement. Any affiliate of a Qualifying Creditor who owns Collateral Stock shall be deemed to be the same person as the Qualifying Creditor for purposes of Section 2.
Qualifying Creditor
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 6(g) hereof.
Records
 
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 6(b).
Registered Class A
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7 hereof.
Registration Expenses
          "" means the product of (a) the maximum number of shares of Class A Common Stock of the Company that could be sold under Rule 144(e)(1) under the Securities Act (or any successor rule or regulation) and (b) the applicable Market Price provided for in this Agreement.
Rule 144 Threshold
          "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
          "" means (i) shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock held on the date hereof by any Children Trust Holder or acquired pursuant to a Transfer in accordance with Section 1(b), (ii) shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock acquired by any Children Trust Holder as a result of any stock split, stock dividend or other recapitalization with respect to any shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock held on the date hereof by any Children Trust Holder or acquired pursuant to a Transfer in accordance with Section 1(b) or as provided in this clause (ii) and (iii) shares of Class A Common Stock acquired upon conversion of Class B Common Stock held on the date hereof by any Children Trust Holder or acquired pursuant to a Transfer in accordance with Section 1(b) or as provided in clause (ii).
Shares
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2(c) hereof.
Suspension of Effectiveness
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2(c) hereof.
Suspension of Filing
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2(c) hereof.
Suspension of Offering
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2(d) hereof.
Trading Day
          "" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 1(a) hereof.
Transfer
 
Exhibit A
     Reference is made to the Registration Rights Agreement, dated January 13, 2010, by and among Cablevision Systems Corporation and the Charles F. Dolan Children Trusts (as amended from time to time, the "").
Registration Rights Agreement
     In consideration of the benefits to which the undersigned is entitled under the Registration Rights Agreement as a Children Trust Holder (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement), the undersigned hereby agrees to be bound by the provisions of the Registration Rights Agreement as a Children Trust Holder, including Sections 1(a), 1(b) and 1(c) thereof, but, for the avoidance of doubt, only with respect to its CSCo Shares (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement).

Exhibit 99.6
 
 
 
 
 
          Registration Rights Agreement (this "Agreement") dated as of January 13, 2010, by and among Cablevision Systems Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), the parties set forth on Annex A to this Agreement (the "Dolan Family Affiliates") and the Qualifying Creditors, if any, who have agreed in writing to become bound by this Agreement. Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in Annex B hereto.
          WHEREAS, as of the date of this Agreement, the Dolan Family Affiliates own shares of Cablevision NY Group Class B Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("Class B Common Stock"), and shares of Cablevision NY Group Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("Class A Common Stock");
          WHEREAS, CSC Holdings Company was party to a Registration Rights Agreement (the "Holdings Registration Rights Agreement"), dated as of January 27, 1986, with CSC Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation ("CSC Holdings"), as amended on December 31, 1986, and the Dolan Family Affiliates have certain registration rights under that agreement with respect to shares of Class A Common Stock as provided in the Holdings Registration Rights Agreement;
          WHEREAS, the Company and the Dolan Family Affiliates wish to supersede in its entirety the Holdings Registration Rights Agreement and provide for benefits and restrictions applicable to the Shares owned by the Dolan Family Holders, all as provided herein.
 
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements contained herein, the parties hereby agree as follows:
          1. .
Demand Registration by the Dolan Family Parties of the Shares
          (a) . One or more of the Dolan Family Parties may request in writing that the Company file a registration statement on an appropriate form for the general registration of securities under the Securities Act, and include therein such number of the Shares owned by such Dolan Family Party as such person may specify in its written request; , , that (i) the Company shall not be required to file a registration statement pursuant to this Section 1 if (x) the Shares requested to be so registered do not, in the case of a Dolan Family Holder, together with any Shares timely requested to be registered by other Dolan Family Holders and Other Holders pursuant to the third-to-last sentence of this Section 1(a), have an aggregate Market Price exceeding the Rule 144 Threshold as of the Trading Day immediately preceding the expiration of the applicable Notice Period under such sentence or, in the case of a Qualifying Creditor, do not have an aggregate Market Price exceeding the Rule 144 Threshold as of the Trading Day immediately preceding the date on which the request for registration is received by the Company, or (y) the Company delivers to each Dolan Family Party requesting registration under this Section 1 an opinion of counsel to the Company (such opinion and such counsel to be reasonably acceptable to each such Dolan Family Party, it being agreed that the Company's regular outside securities counsel shall be deemed to be reasonably acceptable counsel for this purpose) to the effect that the Shares proposed to be registered by such person may be offered and sold by such person to the public in the United States together with the Shares requested to be
Demand Registration
provided
however
 
registered by all other Dolan Family Parties and Other Holders (I) without registration pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and (II) within the volume limitations under Rule 144(e) promulgated under the Securities Act (or any successor rule or regulation) whether or not such volume limitations are then applicable, (ii) subject to the next sentence, after the death of both Dolan and his spouse, the Dolan Family Holders shall in the aggregate have the right on only four occasions to require the Company to file a registration statement pursuant to this Section 1, and (iii) subject to the next sentence, a Qualifying Creditor may require registration only following the exercise of its remedies under a security agreement with a Dolan Family Holder and for the purpose of Transferring Shares pursuant thereto and each Qualifying Creditor may only require one registration hereunder. The total number of demand registrations under clauses (ii) and (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence and under the corresponding provisions of the Dolan Children Trusts Registration Rights Agreement shall not exceed four. All requests made pursuant to this paragraph shall specify the aggregate number of Shares to be registered and the intended methods of disposition thereof, which methods may include an underwritten public offering. Upon receipt of a written request for registration from a Dolan Family Holder pursuant to the preceding sentences, the Company shall promptly give written notice of the proposed registration to each such other Dolan Family Holder and each Other Holder and provide each such other holder with the opportunity to join in such request by written notice to the Company specifying the aggregate number of Shares to be registered by such holder within 20 days from the date of the Company's written notice (such period is referred to as the "Notice Period"). Subject to Section 1(c) of this Agreement, the Company will use its reasonable best
 
efforts to ensure that each registration statement required to be filed pursuant to this Section 1 shall be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") as promptly as reasonably practicable, but no later than 45 days after receipt of such request by the Company, and the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective by the Commission as promptly thereafter as practicable; , , that the Company shall not be required to maintain such effectiveness for more than 90 days. Notwithstanding the Company's rights to effect a Suspension of Filing or Suspension of Effectiveness in Section 1(c), the Dolan Family Parties that made the registration request under this Section 1(a) shall have the right to withdraw any such request, and such withdrawn request shall not count as a demand registration under clause (ii) or (iii) of this Section 1(a) or the corresponding provisions under the Dolan Children Trusts Registration Rights Agreement, if (1) the registration statement required to be filed pursuant to this Section 1 is not filed with the Commission by the date that is 45 days after such request is received by the Company and has not at the time of such withdrawal been filed with the Commission, or is not declared effective by the date that is 90 days after the date such registration statement is filed with the Commission and has not at the time of such withdrawal been declared effective, and (2) in either case, such Dolan Family Parties notify the Company of the withdrawal of such request no later than 10 days after such 45 or 90 day, as the case may be.
provided
however
th
th
          (b) . Anything in this Section 1 to the contrary notwithstanding, if the Company at the time of receipt of a request for registration pursuant to this Section 1 has a bona fide intent and plan to file a registration
Concurrent Primary Offering
 
statement (other than on Form S-4 or S-8 or any successor forms) covering a primary offering by the Company of its Common Equity Securities, the Company, by notice to the applicable Dolan Family Parties, may delay the filing (but not the preparation) of the requested registration statement for a period ending on the earlier of (i) 60 days after the closing of such offering or (ii) 120 days after receipt of the request for registration; and, , , if the Company either abandons its plan to file such registration statement or does not file the same within 75 days after receipt of such request, the Company shall promptly thereafter file the requested registration statement. The Company may not, pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, delay the filing of a requested registration statement more than once during any two-year period.
provided
further
          (c) . Upon notice by the Company to any Dolan Family Party which has requested registration under this Section 1 that a negotiation or consummation of a transaction by the Company or any of its subsidiaries is pending or an event has occurredwhich negotiation, consummation or event would require disclosure in the registration statement for the requested registration and such disclosure would, in the good faith judgment of the board of directors of the Company, be materially adverse to the business interests of the Company, and the nondisclosure of which in the registration statement would reasonably be expected to cause the registration statement to fail to comply with applicable disclosure requirements (a "Materiality Notice"), the Company may delay the filing (but not the preparation) of such registration statement (a "Suspension of Filing"). Upon the delivery of a Materiality Notice by the Company pursuant to the preceding sentence at any time when a registration statement has been filed but not declared effective, the Company may delay seeking the
Suspension of Offering
,
 
effectiveness of such registration statement (a "Suspension of Effectiveness"), and each Dolan Family Party named therein shall immediately discontinue any offers of Shares under such registration statement until such Dolan Family Party receives copies of a supplemented or amended prospectus that corrects such misstatement or omission, or until it is advised in writing by the Company that offers under such registration statement may be resumed and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings which are incorporated by reference in such registration statement. Upon the delivery of a Materiality Notice by the Company pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 1(c) at any time when a registration statement has been filed and declared effective, each Dolan Family Party named therein shall immediately discontinue offers and sales of Shares under such registration statement until such Dolan Family Party receives copies of a supplemented or amended prospectus that corrects such misstatement or omission and notice that any post-effective amendment has become effective, or until it is advised in writing by the Company that offers under such registration statement may be resumed and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings which are incorporated by reference in the registration statement (a "Suspension of Offering;" a Suspension of Filing, a Suspension of Effectiveness and a Suspension of Offering are collectively referred to herein as, "Suspensions"). If so directed by the Company, each Dolan Family Party will deliver to the Company all copies (other than permanent file copies then in such Dolan Family Party's possession) of any prospectus covering Shares in the possession of such Dolan Family Party or its agents current at the time of receipt of any Materiality Notice. In any 12-month period, the aggregate time of all Suspensions shall not, without the consent of a majority of the Dolan Family Holders (by number of Shares
 
held), which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, exceed 180 days. If interrupted by a Suspension of Offering, any 90-day period in respect of which the Company is required to maintain the effectiveness of a registration statement pursuant to Section 1(a) of this Agreement shall be extended by the number of days during which the Suspension of Offering was in effect. In the event of any Suspension of Offering of more than 30 days in duration prior to which the Dolan Family Parties have sold less than 75% of the Shares to be sold in such offering, the Dolan Family Parties shall be entitled to withdraw such registration prior to the later of (i) the end of the Suspension of Offering and (ii) three business days after the Company has provided the Dolan Family Parties written notice of the anticipated date on which the Suspension of Offering will end, and, if such registration is withdrawn, the related demand for registration shall not count for the purposes of the limitations set forth under clauses (y) and (z) of Section 1(a) or the comparable provisions under the Dolan Trusts Registration Rights Agreement.
          (d) . For purposes of this Section 1:
Market Price; Trading Day
          (i) "Market Price" of a share of Class A Common Stock shall mean the weighted average of the closing prices for the Class A Common Stock on each Trading Day (as defined below) in the 30-day period ending on the day prior to the date of determination as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system of the New York Stock Exchange or on the comparable reporting system of such other exchange or trading system that is at the time the principal market for the Class A Common Stock.
 
          (ii) "Trading Day" shall mean any day on which trading takes place on the New York Stock Exchange or such other exchange or trading system that is at the time the principal market for the Class A Common Stock.
          2. .
Coordination of PiggyBack Registration Rights
          Each of the Dolan Family Parties hereby acknowledges and consents to the grant by the Company to the Children Trust Holders (as defined in the Dolan Children Trusts Registration Rights Agreement and hereinafter referred to in this Agreement as the "Other Holders"), in the Dolan Children Trusts Registration Rights Agreement, of the right of the Other Holders to include certain of their respective shares of Class A Common Stock in certain registration statements filed pursuant hereto. Each of the Dolan Family Parties further acknowledges and agrees that if any offering hereunder is to be underwritten and if the managing underwriter or underwriters of such offering informs such person in writing that the number of shares of Class A Common Stock which the Dolan Family Parties, and the Other Holders, as the case may be, intend to include in such offering is sufficiently large so as to affect the offering price of such offering materially and adversely, then the respective number of shares of Class A Common Stock to be offered for the account of each Dolan Family Party and each Other Holder, as the case may be, who is participating in such offering shall be reduced pro rata to the extent necessary to reduce the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock to be included in such offering to the number recommended by such managing underwriter. Except for such piggyback registration rights granted to Other Holders, and to any transferee of the shares of Class A Common Stock owned by an Other Holder which may be registered pursuant to the Dolan Children Trusts Registration Rights Agreement,
 
neither the Company nor any of its security holders shall have the right to include any of the Company's securities in any registration statement filed pursuant hereto.
          3. .
Piggyback Registration of the Shares
          If the Company proposes to file a registration statement under the Securities Act with respect to an offering (a) by an Other Holder of its holdings of Class A Common Stock pursuant to the Dolan Children Trusts Registration Rights Agreement, (b) by any other holder of any Common Equity Securities or (c) by the Company for its own account of any Common Equity Securities (other than a registration statement on Form S-4 or S-8, or any successor form or a form filed in connection with an exchange offer or an offering of securities solely to the existing stockholders of the Company), the Company shall give written notice of such proposed filing to each of the Dolan Family Holders at least 20 days before the anticipated filing date which shall state whether such registration will be in connection with an underwritten offering and offer such Dolan Family Holders the opportunity to include in such registration statement such number of the Shares as such Dolan Family Holder may request within three days prior to the anticipated filing date. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the managing underwriter or underwriters of a proposed underwritten offering to permit such Dolan Family Holders to be included in the registration for such offering and to include such Shares in such offering on the same terms and conditions as the Common Equity Securities included in such offering. If such proposed offering is to be underwritten, then upon request by the managing underwriter or underwriters given to such Dolan Family Holders prior to the effective date of the offering, any Dolan Family Holder electing to have Shares included in the registration statement shall either enter into underwriting
 
agreements with customary terms and conditions for a secondary offering with such underwriter or underwriters providing for the inclusion of such number of the Shares owned by such Dolan Family Holder in such offering on such terms and conditions or, if such Dolan Family Holder shall refuse to enter into any such agreement, the Company shall have the right to exclude from such registration all (but not less than all) of the Shares of such Dolan Family Holder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) in no event will any Dolan Family Holder be required in such underwriting agreement (or in any other agreement in connection with such offering) to (i) make any representations or warranties to or agreements with the underwriters other than representations, warranties or agreements customarily made by selling securityholders in underwritten secondary offerings, (ii) make any representations or warranties to or agreements with the Company other than representations, warranties or agreements regarding such Dolan Family Holder, the ownership of such Dolan Family Holder's Common Equity Securities, the authorization, validity and binding effect of transaction documents executed by such Dolan Family Holder in connection with such registration and such Dolan Family Holder's intended method or methods of distribution and any other representation required by law; provided that no Dolan Family Holder shall be required to make any representation or warranty to any person covered by the indemnity in Section 7(b) other than on a several (and not joint) basis, or (iii) furnish any indemnity to any person which is broader than the indemnity customarily furnished by selling security holders in underwritten offerings; provided that no Dolan Family Holder shall be required to furnish any indemnity broader than the indemnity furnished by such Dolan Family Holder in Section 7(b) to any person covered by the indemnity in Section 7(b), and (y) if the
 
managing underwriter or underwriters of such offering informs the Dolan Family Holders in writing that the number of Shares which the Dolan Family Holders and the number of Shares which the Other Holders intend to include in such offering is sufficiently large so as to affect materially and adversely the success of such offering, the Shares to be offered for the account of the Dolan Family Holders and the Other Holders shall first be reduced pro rata to the extent necessary to reduce the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock to be included in such offering to the number recommended by such managing underwriter. In giving effect to the foregoing reduction, the respective number of the Shares to be offered for the account of Dolan Family Holders shall be reduced pro rata.
          4. .
Holdback Agreements
          (a) . To the extent not inconsistent with applicable law, each Dolan Family Party agrees not to offer publicly or effect any public sale or distribution of Common Equity Securities, including a sale pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor rule or regulation), during the seven days prior to, and during the 90-day period beginning on, the effective date of any registration statement filed by the Company pursuant to which any such shares or securities are being registered (except as part of such registration), if and to the extent requested by the Company in the case of a non-underwritten public offering or if and to the extent requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters in the case of an underwritten public offering.
Restrictions on Public Sale by Dolan Family Parties
          (b) . The Company agrees (i) that during the seven days prior to, and during the 90-day period beginning on, the effective date of any registration statement filed at the request of a
Restrictions on Public Sale by the Company and Others
 
Dolan Family Party pursuant hereto, the Company will not offer publicly or effect any public sale or distribution of Common Equity Securities (other than any such sale or distribution of such securities in connection with any merger or consolidation of the Company or any subsidiary with, or the acquisition by the Company or a subsidiary of the capital stock or substantially all of the assets of, any other person or any offer or sale of such securities pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-8), and (ii) that any agreement entered into after the date of this Agreement pursuant to which the Company issues or agrees to issue any privately placed Common Equity Securities shall contain a provision under which holders of such securities agree not to effect any public sale or distribution of any such securities during the periods described in (i) above, in each case including a sale pursuant to Rule 144 (or any successor rule or regulation) under the Securities Act (except as part of any such registration, if permitted).
          5. .
Registration Procedures
          In connection with any registration of the Shares owned by a Dolan Family Party contemplated hereby, the Company will as expeditiously as possible:
          (a) Furnish to such Dolan Family Party, prior to filing a registration statement, copies of such registration statement as proposed to be filed, and thereafter such number of copies of such registration statement, each amendment and supplement thereto (in each case including all exhibits thereto), the prospectus included in such registration statement (including each preliminary prospectus) and such other documents in such quantities as such Dolan Family Party may reasonably request from time to time in order to facilitate the disposition of the Shares.
 
          (b) Use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify the Shares being registered as contemplated hereby (the "Registered Class A") under such other securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as such Dolan Family Party reasonably requests and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable such Dolan Family Party to consummate the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Registered Class A; that the Company will not be required to (i) qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this paragraph (b), (ii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction, or (iii) consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction.
provided
          (c) Use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Registered Class A to be registered with or approved by such other governmental agencies or authorities as may be necessary by virtue of the business and operations of the Company to enable such Dolan Family Party to consummate the disposition of such Registered Class A.
          (d) Notify such Dolan Family Party at any time, (i) of any request by the Commission or any other federal or state governmental authority for amendments or supplements to a registration statement or related prospectus or for additional information, (ii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a registration statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iii) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of any of the Registered Class A for sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose, and (iv) when a prospectus relating thereto is required to be delivered under the Securities Act, of the happening of any event as a result of which the
 
prospectus included in such registration statement contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and, except as otherwise provided in Section 1(c) hereof, the Company will, as expeditiously as practicable, prepare a supplement or amendment to such prospectus so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of such Registered Class A, such prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
          (e) Use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a registration statement, or the lifting of any suspension of the qualification (or exemption from qualification) of any of the Registered Class A for sale in any jurisdiction at the earliest date reasonably practical.
          (f) Cause all such Registered Class A to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or on any other securities exchange on which the Class A Common Stock is then listed, that the applicable listing requirements are satisfied.
provided
          (g) Enter into customary agreements (including an underwriting agreement in customary form) and take such other actions as are reasonably requested by the relevant Dolan Family Party in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of the Registered Class A.
          (h) Make available for inspection by such Dolan Family Party, any underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such registration statement, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by such Dolan Family Party or such underwriter (collectively, the "Inspectors"), all financial and other records, pertinent
 
corporate documents and properties of the Company (collectively, the "Records") as shall be reasonably necessary to enable them to exercise their due diligence responsibility, and cause the officers, directors and employees of the Company to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector in connection with such registration statement. Records which the Company determines, in good faith, to be confidential and which it notifies the Inspectors are confidential shall not be disclosed by the Inspectors unless (i) the disclosure of such Records is necessary to avoid or correct a misstatement or omission in the registration statement or (ii) the release of such Records is ordered pursuant to a subpoena or other order from a court of competent jurisdiction. Any Dolan Family Party shall use reasonable best efforts, prior to any disclosure by any such Inspector under clause (i) of the preceding sentence, to inform the Company that such disclosure is necessary to avoid or correct a misstatement or omission in the registration statement. Each Dolan Family Party further agrees that it will, upon learning that disclosure of Records is sought in a court of competent jurisdiction, give notice to the Company and allow the Company, at the expense of the Company, to undertake appropriate action to prevent disclosure of the Records deemed confidential.
          (i) In the event such sale is pursuant to an underwritten offering, use its reasonable best efforts to (i) obtain a comfort letter from the independent public accountants for the Company in customary form and covering such matters of the type customarily covered by such letters as any Dolan Family Party reasonably requests and (ii) ensure that (A) the representations, warranties and covenants contained in the applicable underwriting agreement shall expressly be for the benefit of any Dolan Family Party participating in such sale, (B) the conditions to closing in said underwriting
 
agreement shall be reasonably satisfactory to such Dolan Family Party and (C) to the extent customary, all comfort letters and opinions of counsel contemplated by said underwriting agreements are delivered to such Dolan Family Party on the closing date of the offering.
          (j) Otherwise use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and have the registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable after filing.
          The Company may require any Dolan Family Party to furnish to the Company such information regarding such Dolan Family Party as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing, in each case only as required by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder.
          Each Dolan Family Party agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 5(d) hereof, such Dolan Family Party will forthwith discontinue disposition of the Registered Class A pursuant to the registration statement covering such Registered Class A until such Dolan Family Party receives the copies of the supplemented or amended prospectus contemplated by Section 5(d) hereof, and, if so directed by the Company, such Dolan Family Party will deliver to the Company (at the expense of the Company) all copies, other than permanent file copies then in such Dolan Family Party's possession, of the prospectus covering such Registered Class A current at the time of receipt of such notice. If interrupted by receipt of any such notice pursuant to Section 5(d), any 90 day period in respect of which the Company is required to maintain the effectiveness of a registration
 
statement pursuant to Section 1(a) shall be extended by the number of days during which the interruption was in effect.
          6. .
Registration Expenses
          Other than in the case of (a) a registration at the request of a Qualifying Creditor or (b) a demand registration under Section 1(a)(ii) after the second such registration (each registration referred to in clause (a) or (b), a "Designated Registration"), all expenses incident to the performance of or compliance with this Agreement by the Company, including, without limitation, all registration and filing fees, fees and expenses of compliance with securities or blue sky laws (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel in connection with blue sky qualifications of the Registered Class A), printing expenses, messenger and delivery expenses, internal expenses (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the Registered Class A on the New York Stock Exchange or any other securities exchange on which such Class A Common Stock is then listed, fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and its independent certified public accountants (including the expenses of any special audit or comfort letters required by or incident to such performance), securities acts liability insurance (if the Company elects to obtain such insurance), the fees and expenses of any special experts retained by the Company in connection with such registration, the fees and expenses of other persons retained by the Company, including transfer agents, trustees, depositories and registrars (all such expenses being herein called "Registration Expenses"), will be borne by the Company. In the case of a Designated Registration, all Registration Expenses other than
 
internal expenses of the Company and securities acts liability insurance obtained by the Company at its election, shall be borne by the Qualifying Creditor or the Dolan Family Holders participating in the offering, as the case may be. The Company will not have any responsibility for any of the expenses of any Dolan Family Party incurred in connection with any registration statement hereunder, including, without limitation, underwriting discounts or commissions attributable to the sale of Registered Class A and fees and expenses of counsel for such Dolan Family Party.
          7. .
Indemnification; Contribution
          (a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by law, (i) each Dolan Family Party, (ii) the directors, officers, partners, employees, agents, beneficiaries, trustees, members and affiliates of each Dolan Family Party, and the directors, officers, partners, employees and agents of each such affiliate, and (iii) each person who controls any of the foregoing (within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act), and any investment adviser thereof, against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, expenses (or actions or proceedings in respect thereof) or costs (including, without limitation, costs of investigation and reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements incurred by any such indemnified person in connection with enforcing its rights hereunder preparing, pursuing or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense, action or proceeding), including any of the foregoing incurred in settlement of any litigation commenced or threatened (collectively, "Losses"), joint or several, based upon or arising out of (x) any untrue or alleged untrue statement of material fact contained in any registration statement, prospectus, preliminary prospectus, summary
Indemnification by the Company
 
prospectus or amendment or supplement thereto, (y) any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of a prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, or (z) any violation by the Company of any federal, state or common law rule or regulation applicable to the Company in connection with such registration, and the Company will reimburse each such indemnified party for any such Loss, except in each case insofar as any such Loss arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or omission made in any such registration statement, prospectus, preliminary prospectus, final prospectus, summary prospectus, amendment or supplement, or a violation of law or regulation in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such indemnified party expressly for use in the preparation thereof, it being understood that the information to be furnished to the Company for use in the preparation of any such document shall be limited only to the information specifically referenced in the penultimate sentence of Section 7(b). Such indemnity shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by such indemnified person and shall survive the Transfer of any Shares by any such indemnified person. The indemnity in this Section 7(a) shall not apply to Losses incurred by a person other than in his or her capacity as a selling security holder. In connection with an underwritten offering, the Company will indemnify the underwriters thereof, their officers and directors and each person who controls such underwriters (within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act) to the same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of each Dolan Family Party.
 
          (b) . In connection with any registration statement contemplated hereby, each Dolan Family Party participating in any offer or sale pursuant to such registration statement will furnish to the Company in writing such information with respect to such Dolan Family Party as the Company reasonably requests for use in connection with any such registration statement, prospectus, preliminary prospectus, summary prospectus or amendment or supplement thereto and agrees to indemnify and hold harmless, severally, and not jointly, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Company, its directors, officers, employees, agents and affiliates and the directors, officers, partners, employees and agents of each such affiliate and each person who controls the Company (within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act) against any Losses insofar as such Losses arise out of or are based upon (i) an untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any such registration statement, prospectus, preliminary prospectus, summary prospectus or amendment or supplement thereto or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of a prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, to the extent, that such untrue statement or omission is contained in or omitted from any information with respect to such Dolan Family Party so furnished in writing by such Dolan Family Party expressly for use in the preparation of such registration statement, prospectus, preliminary prospectus, summary prospectus or amendment or supplement thereto, as the case may be, or (ii) any violation by such Dolan Family Party of any federal, state or common law rule or regulation applicable to such Dolan Family Party in connection with such registration. It is understood that the
Indemnification by Dolan Family Parties
 
information to be furnished by a Dolan Family Party to the Company for use in the preparation of any such document shall be limited only to information regarding such Dolan Family Party, the ownership of such Dolan Family Party's Common Equity Securities, such Dolan Family Party's intended method or methods of distribution and any other information required by law. The liability of a Dolan Family Party under this Section 7(b) shall not exceed the amount of net proceeds received by such Dolan Family Party (net of underwriting discounts borne by such Dolan Family Party) from the sale of the Shares in the offering that is the subject of an indemnity claim under this Section 7(b).
          (c) . Any person entitled to indemnification hereunder agrees to give prompt written notice to the indemnifying party after the receipt by such person of any written notice of the commencement of any action, suit, proceeding or investigation or threat thereof made in writing for which such person will claim indemnification or contribution pursuant to this Agreement, provided that the failure of any indemnified party to give notice as provided herein shall not relieve the indemnified party of its obligations under this Section 7, except to the extent that the indemnifying party is materially prejudiced by such failure to give notice. Unless in the reasonable judgment of such indemnified party, a conflict of interest may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party with respect to such claim, the indemnified party shall permit the indemnifying party to assume the defense of such claim with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party. If the indemnifying party is not entitled to, or elects not to, assume the defense of a claim, it will not be obligated to pay the fees and expenses of more than one counsel with respect
Conduct of Indemnification Proceedings
 
to such claim, unless in the reasonable judgment of any indemnified party a conflict of interest may exist between such indemnified party and any other of such indemnified parties with respect to such claim, in which event the indemnifying party shall be obligated to pay the fees and expenses of such additional counsel or counsels. No indemnifying party will be subject to any liability for any settlement made without its consent. No indemnifying party, in the defense of any such claim or litigation shall, except with the consent of the applicable indemnified party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, consent to entry of any judgment or enter into any settlement which does not include as an unconditional term thereof the giving by the claimant or plaintiff to such indemnified party of a release from all liability in respect of such claim or litigation.
          (d) . Any indemnification required to be made by an indemnifying party pursuant to this Section 7 shall be made by periodic payments to the indemnified party during the course of the action or proceeding, as and when bills are received by such indemnifying party with respect to indemnifiable Losses incurred by such indemnified party.
Indemnification Payments
          (e) . If the indemnification provided for in this Section 7 from the indemnifying party is unavailable to an indemnified party hereunder in respect of any Losses or is insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party from all Losses covered thereby, then the indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such Losses in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the indemnifying party and indemnified parties in connection with the actions which resulted
Contribution
 
in such Losses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of such indemnifying party and indemnified parties shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by such indemnifying party or indemnified parties, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statements or omissions. The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 7(c), any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with any investigation or proceeding.
          The parties hereto agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7(e) were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take into account the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
          Notwithstanding anything else contained herein, (i) no party shall be liable for contribution under this Section 7(e) except to the extent and under such circumstances as such party would have been liable to indemnify under this Section 7 if such indemnification were enforceable under applicable law and (ii) no Dolan Family Party (or related indemnified party) shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which net the proceeds received by such Dolan Family Party (net of
 
underwriting discounts borne by such Dolan Family Party) from the sale of Shares in the offering that is the subject of the claim for contribution exceeds the amount of any damages which such Dolan Family Party (or related indemnified party) would have been required to pay by reason of the indemnity under this Section 7 if such indemnification was enforceable under applicable law.
          If indemnification is available under this Section 7, the indemnifying parties shall indemnify each indemnified party to the full extent provided in Sections 7(a) and (b) without regard to the relative fault of said indemnifying party or indemnified party or any other equitable consideration provided for in this Section 7(e).
          8. . A Dolan Family Party may not participate in any underwritten registration hereunder or under the Dolan Children Trusts Registration Rights Agreement or otherwise unless such Dolan Family Party (a) agrees to sell the Shares on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements with customary terms and conditions for a secondary offering approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements, provided that none of the foregoing shall in any way limit the obligations of the Company under Section 7.
Participation in Underwritten Registrations
          9. .
Miscellaneous
          (a) . The Company will not hereafter enter into any agreement with respect to its securities which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Dolan Family Parties in this Agreement.
No Inconsistent Agreements
 
          (b) . This Agreement may not be amended, modified or altered except by a writing duly signed by the party against which such amendment or modification is sought to be enforced.
Amendments
          (c) . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, the Dolan Family Parties and the respective successors and permitted assigns of the Company and the Dolan Family Parties. This Agreement may not be assigned by either the Company or a Dolan Family Party without the prior written consent of the other party hereto; provided that the Company agrees that all transferees of all or substantially all of the Shares held by Dolan shall be accorded all of the registration rights of Dolan hereunder. The Company shall assign its rights and obligations hereunder to any entity that succeeds to all or substantially all of its assets, by merger or otherwise, including to any holding company that may be formed to be the parent of the Company, if such entity becomes the issuer of the securities then owned by the Dolan Family Holders.
Successors and Assigns
          (d) . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          (e) . The headings in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not constitute a part hereof.
Headings
          (f)
Construction
. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the internal laws of the State of New York without giving any effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
 
          (g) . Any notice required or desired to be delivered hereunder shall be () in writing, () delivered by personal delivery, sent by commercial delivery service or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by facsimile or electronic mail, () deemed to have been given on the date of personal delivery, the date set forth in the records of the delivery service or return receipt, or in the case of facsimile or electronic mail, upon dispatch, and () addressed as designated on hereto (or to such other address as the party entitled to notice shall hereafter designate in accordance with the terms hereof), with copies as designated on hereto.
Notices
i
ii
iii
iv
Schedule 1
Schedule 1
          (h) . If any provision of this Agreement or the application of any provision hereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected unless the provision held invalid shall substantially impair the benefits of the remaining portions of this Agreement.
Severability
          (i) . This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and is intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings (including under the Holdings Registration Rights Agreement), other than those set forth or referred to herein. This Agreement supersedes in its entirety the Holdings Registration Rights Agreement and all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter. Without limiting the foregoing, the Holdings Registration Rights Agreement shall be of no further force or effect whatsoever.
Entire Agreement
 
          (j) . In any action or proceeding brought to enforce any provision of this Agreement, or where any provision hereof is validly asserted as a defense, the successful party shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys' fees in addition to any other available remedy.
Attorneys' Fees
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first written above.
 
 
Charles F. Dolan Helen A. Dolan Charles F. Dolan 2009 Revocable Trust Helen A. Dolan 2009 Revocable Trust Charles F. Dolan 2008 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #2 Charles F. Dolan 2009 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #1 Charles F. Dolan 2009 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #2 Charles F. Dolan 2009 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #3 Charles F. Dolan 2010 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #1 Helen A. Dolan 2009 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #1 Helen A. Dolan 2009 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #2 Helen A. Dolan 2010 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust #1 Charles F. Dolan 2009 Family Trusts Tara Dolan 1989 Trust Charles Dolan 1989 Trust Ryan Dolan 1989 Trust Dolan Family Foundation Dolan Children's Foundation
 
Annex B
          "Acceptable Marital Trust" means a marital trust the income of which is for the benefit of any spouse of any descendant of Dolan and the principal of which (including all shares of Class B Common Stock held by such trust) is for the sole benefit of any descendant of Dolan.
          "Class A Common Stock" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Recitals.
          "Class B Common Stock" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Recitals.
          "Collateral Stock" means shares of Class B Common Stock that are the subject of a bona fide pledge or similar perfected security interest.
          "Commission" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 1(a) hereof.
          "Common Equity Securities" means shares of any class of common stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of any class of common stock of the Company.
          "Company" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Recitals.
          "Creditor" means any financial institution approved by the Company, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
          "CSC Holdings" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Recitals.
          "Designated Registration" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 6 hereof.
          "Dolan" means Charles F. Dolan; such term does not include Mr. Dolan's legal representatives or his estate.
          "Dolan Children Trusts Registration Rights Agreement" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and the Charles F. Dolan Children Trusts.
          "Dolan Family Affiliates" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Preamble hereof.
          "Dolan Family Holders" means the Dolan Family Affiliates and any other Dolan Family Member who or that is a transferee of shares of Class B Common Stock from a Dolan Family Affiliate or other Dolan Family Member.
 
          "Dolan Family Member" means Dolan, his spouse, any person related to Dolan by reason of being his ancestor or descendent (natural or adopted), any Acceptable Marital Trust, any entity (whether a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity of any kind) all of the equity or beneficial interests in which are owned or held by any of the foregoing persons, or any person (whether or not such person is one of the foregoing persons) who is a trustee for, or is acting on behalf of, any of such foregoing persons. "Dolan Family Parties" means all Dolan Family Holders and any Qualifying Creditor.
          "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
          "Holdings Registration Rights Agreement" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Recitals.
          "Inspectors" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5(g) hereof.
          "Losses" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 7(a) hereof.
          "Market Price" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 1(d) hereof.
          "Materiality Notice" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 1(c) hereof.
          "Other Holders" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2 hereof.
          "Public Offering" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Recitals.
          "Qualifying Creditor" means a Creditor who has, at the written request of a Dolan Family Holder, signed an instrument in form reasonably acceptable to the Company agreeing to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement. Any affiliate of a Qualifying Creditor who owns Collateral Stock shall be deemed to be the same person as the Qualifying Creditor for purposes of Section 1.
          "Records" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5(g) hereof.
          "Registered Class A" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5(b).
          "Registration Expenses" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 6 hereof.
          "Rule 144 Threshold" means the product of (a) the maximum number of shares of Class A Common Stock of the Company that could be sold under Rule 144(e)(1) under the Securities Act (or any successor rule or regulation) and (b) the applicable Market Price provided for in this Agreement.
          "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
          "Shares" means (i) shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock held on the date hereof by any Dolan Family Holder, (ii) any shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock acquired by any Dolan Family Holder as a result of any stock split, stock dividend or other recapitalization with respect to any shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock held on the date hereof by any Dolan Family Holder or acquired as provided in this clause (ii) and (iii) shares of Class A Common Stock acquired upon conversion of Class B Common Stock held on the date hereof by any Dolan Family Holder or acquired as provided in clause (ii).
          "Suspension of Effectiveness" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2(c) hereof.
          "Suspension of Filing" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 1(c) hereof.
          "Suspension of Offering" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 1(c) hereof.
          "Trading Day" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 1(d) hereof.
          "Transfer" means a sale, transfer or other disposition.


