FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20100226125805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): 
February 26, 2010
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
 
CSC HOLDINGS, LLC
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
 
1111 Stewart Avenue, Bethpage, New York 11714
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
 
Registrants' telephone number, including area code:
(516) 803-2300
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01   REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
On February 26, 2010, Consolidated Financial Statements of Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries ("RNS"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, LLC, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 and for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations were furnished to RNS bondholders in accordance with the requirements of the Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to RNS' and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's $300,000,000 8-3/4% Senior Notes due 2012 and the Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to RNS' and RNS Co-Issuer Corporation's $325,000,000 10-3/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014. The RNS Consolidated Financial Statements are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the RNS Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and both items are being furnished in this Form 8-K filing.
 
ITEM 9.01
                                      
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d)      Exhibits
 
99.1.
                                                               
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 and for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007
 
99.2.
                                                               
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
The Board of Directors
Rainbow National Services LLC:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Rainbow National Services LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of income, member's deficiency and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009.  In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the related consolidated financial statement schedule (Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts).  These consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.  Accordingly, we express no such opinion.  An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
Rainbow National Services LLC is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary and operates as an integral part of Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision").  As described in Notes 1, 9 and 10, these consolidated financial statements have been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Cablevision and reflect certain assumptions and allocations.  The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Rainbow National Services LLC could differ from those that might have resulted had Rainbow National Services LLC been operated autonomously or as an entity independent of Cablevision.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Rainbow National Services LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related consolidated financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
 
Melville, New York
February 26, 2010
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1.                BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Nature of Operations
 
In July 2004, Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") formed Rainbow National Services LLC (the "Company").  Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC ("Rainbow Programming Holdings"), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision, owns 100% of the membership interests in the Company.  The Company is a holding company with no independent operations of its own.  Its subsidiaries include entities that principally own nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment services operated as integral parts of Cablevision, including AMC, WE tv and IFC.  The Company's consolidated financial statements have been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Cablevision and reflect certain assumptions and allocations (see notes 9 and 10).  The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company could differ from those that might have resulted had the Company been operated autonomously or as an entity independent of Cablevision.
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and Regulation S-X of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for annual financial information as required by the Company's indentures (see note 5) even though the Company is not a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Principles of Consolidation
 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
The Company recognizes affiliation fee revenue from cable system operators, direct broadcast satellite operators and telecommunication companies that carry the Company's programming services.  The programming services are delivered throughout the terms of the agreements and the Company recognizes revenue as programming is provided.
 
Advertising revenues are recognized when commercials are aired.  In certain advertising sales arrangements, the Company's programming businesses guarantee specified viewer ratings for their programming.  For these types of transactions, a portion of such revenue is deferred if the guaranteed viewer ratings are not met and is subsequently recognized either when the Company provides the required additional advertising time, the guarantee obligation contractually expires or performance requirements become remote.
Multiple-Element Transactions
 
If there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value for all elements of accounting in a multiple-element arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate elements of accounting based on relative fair values.  There may be cases in which there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered items in an arrangement but no such evidence for the delivered items.  In those cases, the Company utilizes the residual method to allocate the arrangement consideration.  Under the residual method, the amount of consideration allocated to the delivered items equals the total arrangement consideration less the aggregate fair value of the undelivered items.  In determining fair value, the Company refers to historical transactions or comparable cash transactions.
 
The Company, together with other subsidiaries of Cablevision, may enter into affiliation agreements which are documented in one or more contracts; however, negotiated contemporaneously.  Amounts paid/received by other subsidiaries of Cablevision or the Company may differ from the amounts that would have been paid/received if such arrangements were negotiated separately.  Where Cablevision has incurred a cost incremental to fair value and the Company has received a benefit incremental to fair value from these negotiations in the form of increased affiliation fee revenues, Cablevision charges the Company for the incremental amount.  Likewise, where the Company has received affiliation fee revenues less than fair value amounts and Cablevision has received a benefit incremental to fair value from these negotiations in the form of decreased programming costs, the Company charges Cablevision for the incremental amount. Judgments made in determining fair value impact the amount and period in which revenues are recognized over the term of the individual affiliation agreements.
 
Technical and Operating Expenses
 
Cost of revenues related to programming services including, but not limited to, license fees, amortization of program rights, and programming and production costs, are classified as technical and operating expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.
 
Advertising Expenses
 
Advertising costs are charged to expense when incurred and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.  Advertising costs were $65,334, $68,624 and $52,648 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
The Company's cash investments are placed with money market funds and financial institutions that are investment grade as rated by Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service.  The Company selects money market funds that predominantly invest in marketable, direct obligations issued or guaranteed by the United States government or its agencies, commercial paper, fully collateralized repurchase agreements, certificates of deposit, and time deposits.   The Company
considers short-term investments with a maturity at date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
 
Accounts Receivable
 
The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of valuation allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable by evaluating the collectibility of outstanding receivables and general factors such as length of time individual receivables are past due, historical collection experience, and the economic and competitive environment.
 
Program Rights
 
Rights to programming, including feature films and episodic series, acquired under license agreements along with the related obligations are recorded at the contract value when a license agreement is executed, unless there is uncertainty with respect to either cost, acceptability or availability.  If such uncertainty exists, those rights and obligations are recorded at the earlier of when the uncertainty is resolved or when the license period begins.  Costs are amortized to technical and operating expense on a straight-line basis over the respective license periods.
 
Owned original programming is produced for the Company by independent production companies.  Any owned original programming costs qualifying for capitalization as program rights are amortized to technical and operating expense over their estimated useful lives, commencing upon the first airing, based on attributable revenue for airings to date as a percentage of total projected attributable revenue.  Projected program usage is based on the historical performance of similar content.  Estimated cash flows can change based upon programming market acceptance, levels of affiliation fee revenues and advertising revenues, and program usage.    Accordingly, the Company periodically reviews revenue estimates and planned usage and revises its assumptions if necessary which could impact the timing of amortization expenses or result in an impairment charge.   The Company expects to amortize approximately  $12,000 of owned original programming at December 31, 2009, which is included as a component of long-term program rights, net, during the year ending December 31, 2010 and expects to amortize 93% within the next three years.
 
The Company periodically reviews the programming usefulness of its program rights based on a series of factors, including ratings, type and quality of program material, standards and practices, and fitness for exhibition.  If it is determined that film or other program rights have no future programming usefulness, a write-off of the unamortized cost is recorded in technical and operating expense.  Impairment charges of $7,178 were recorded for the year ended December 31, 2009.  There were no impairment charges recorded in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.
 
Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets
 
Property and equipment are carried at cost.  Equipment under capital leases is recorded at the present value of the total minimum lease payments.  Depreciation is calculated on the straight- line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets or, with respect to equipment under capital leases and leasehold improvements, amortized over the shorter of the lease term or the assets'
useful lives and reported in depreciation and amortization in the consolidated statements of income.
 
Intangible assets established in connection with acquisitions consist of affiliation agreements and affiliate relationships, advertiser relationships, other intangibles and goodwill.  These intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their respective estimated useful lives.  Goodwill acquired in purchase business combinations is not amortized.
 
The Company reviews its long-lived assets (property and equipment, and intangible assets subject to amortization that arose from acquisitions accounted for under the purchase method) for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  If the sum of the expected cash flows, undiscounted and without interest, is less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value.
 
The Company evaluates the recoverability of its goodwill annually or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired.  Goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step process.  The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss, if any.  The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.  If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill which would be recognized in a business combination.
 
Program Rights Obligations
 
Amounts payable subsequent to December 31, 2009 for program rights obligations included in the balance sheet are as follows:
 
 
In July 2003, American Movie Classics Company LLC ("AMC LLC"), WE: Women's Entertainment LLC ("WE LLC"), and The Independent Film Channel LLC ("IFC LLC") and Rainbow Media Holdings LLC ("Rainbow Media Holdings"), the Company's indirect parent, as licensees, entered into an agreement with a film studio for feature film telecast rights.  Each licensee recorded its allocated share of the program rights asset and all of the payment
obligations for which they are jointly and severally liable. Such payments initially amounted to $84,000 in total of which $25,500 remained unpaid at December 31, 2009 and is included in the amounts above.  Program rights of approximately $17,000 were allocated outside of the Company to affiliates during 2003.  Payments of program rights obligations by affiliates for program rights allocated outside of the Company amounted to $1,514, $2,625 and $2,826 during 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.  The allocation of these film assets was treated as a deemed capital distribution in 2003 and the payments made by affiliates for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, were treated as deemed capital contributions in the accompanying consolidated statements of member's deficiency.
 
Off balance sheet program rights obligations at December 31, 2009 amount to $140,804.  Amounts payable by year are:  $74,587 in 2010, $11,177 in 2011, $10,187 in 2012, $11,414 in 2013, $17,876 in 2014 and $15,563 thereafter.
 
Deferred Carriage Fees
 
Deferred carriage fees represent amounts paid or payable to cable system operators, direct broadcast satellite operators and telecommunication companies to guarantee carriage of certain programming services and are amortized as a reduction of revenue over the period of the related guarantee (4 to 13 years).
 
Deferred Financing Costs
 
Costs incurred to obtain debt are deferred and amortized to interest expense ratably over the life of the related debt.
 
Income Taxes
 
The Company's provision for income taxes is based on current period income, changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in estimates with regard to uncertain tax positions. Deferred tax assets are subject to an ongoing assessment of realizability.  The Company provides deferred taxes for the outside basis difference of its investment in partnerships.  Interest and penalties, if any, associated with uncertain tax positions are included in income tax expense.
 
The Company was included in the consolidated federal income tax return of Cablevision for the years presented herein.  The income tax expense presented in the consolidated statements of income is based upon the taxable income of the Company on a separate tax return basis. 
Since there is no tax sharing agreement in place between the Company and Cablevision, allocable current income tax liabilities calculated on a stand-alone company basis that the Company does not pay directly have been reflected as deemed capital contributions to the Company from its parent.  Such contributions amounted to $81,250, $60,363, and $34,761 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Comprehensive Income
 
Comprehensive income for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008, and 2007
equals net income for the respective periods.
 
Share-Based Compensation
 
Cablevision allocates the Company expenses or benefits related to its various employee stock plans.  Cablevision records share-based compensation expense during the period based on the fair value of the portion of share-based payment awards that are ultimately expected to vest.  Cablevision uses the Black-Scholes valuation model in determining the fair value of share-based payments.  For shared-based awards granted prior to December 31, 2005, Cablevision recognizes compensation expense under the accelerated attribution method and recognizes compensation expense for subsequently granted share-based awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.  As the obligations related to the grants for equity classified and liability classified awards under the Cablevision employee stock plans are satisfied by Cablevision, the allocation to the Company of its proportionate share of the related expenses is reflected as a deemed capital contribution in the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Company.
 
Foreign Currency Transactions
 
The Company has no foreign operations, but has a limited number of trade receivables denominated in a foreign currency, primarily Canadian dollars.  The Company recognized $329, $(712) and $479 of foreign currency transaction gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to those receivables denominated in a foreign currency from affiliation agreements with foreign cable system and direct broadcast satellite operators.  Such amounts are included in miscellaneous, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.
 
Cash Flows
 
During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company's non-cash investing and financing activities and other supplemental data were as follows:
 
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
 
The Company accounts for derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities measured at fair value.  The Company's embedded derivative financial instruments are clearly and closely related to the host contracts; therefore, such derivative financial instruments are not accounted for on a stand-alone basis.   The Company uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure to market risks from changes in interest rates and does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.  These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges, and changes in fair values of these derivatives are recognized in income as gains (losses) on derivative contracts.
 
Use of Estimates in Preparation of Financial Statements
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Commitments and Contingencies
 
Liabilities for loss contingencies arising from claims, assessments, litigation, fines and penalties and other sources are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the assessment can be reasonably estimated.
 
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
 
In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued guidance now codified under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 105-10, which establishes the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (the "Codification") as the source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP.  ASC Topic 105-10 explicitly recognizes rules and interpretive releases of the SEC under federal securities laws as authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants.  Upon adoption of this guidance under ASC Topic 105-10, the Codification superseded all then-existing non-SEC accounting and reporting standards. All other non-grandfathered non-SEC accounting literature not included in the Codification became non-authoritative.  The guidance under ASC Topic 105-10 became effective for the Company as of September 30, 2009.  References made to authoritative FASB guidance throughout this document have been updated to the applicable Codification section.
In May 2009, the FASB issued guidance now codified under ASC Topic 855-10, which requires an entity, after the balance sheet date, to evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in its financial statements.  ASC Topic 855-10 determines the circumstances under which the entity shall recognize these events or transactions in its financial statements and provides the disclosures that an entity shall make about them including disclosing the date through which the entity evaluated these events or transactions, as well as whether that date is the date the entity's financial statements were issued or the date the financial statements were available to be issued.  The guidance under ASC Topic 855-10 became effective for the Company as of June 30, 2009.  The Company
evaluated all events or transa ctions that occurred after December 31, 2009 up through February 26, 2010, the date the Company issued these consolidated financial statements.  During this period, the Company did not have any material recognizable subsequent events.
 
In April 2008, the FASB issued guidance now codified under ASC Topics 350-30 and 275-10, which amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under ASC Topic 350.  The guidance under ASC Topics 350-30 and 275-10 became effective as of January 1, 2009 for the Company.  The adoption of the
guidance under ASC Topics 350-30 and 275-10 did not have an effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
In March 2008, the FASB issued guidance now codified under ASC Topic 815-10.  ASC Topic 815-10 requires specific disclosures regarding the location and amounts of derivative instruments in the Company's financial statements; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect the Company's financial position, financial performance, and cash flows.  The guidance under ASC Topic 815-10 became effective as of January 1, 2009 for the Company. 
The Company has provided the required disclosures pursuant to the guidance under ASC Topic 815-10 for derivative instruments in Note 6.
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued guidance now codified under ASC Topic 805.  ASC Topic 805 requires an acquirer to recognize the assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date, measured at their fair values as of that date.  Also, in April 2009, the FASB issued guidance now codified under ASC Topic 805-20, to address some of the application issues under ASC Topic 805.  ASC Topic 805-20 deals with the initial recognition and measurement of an asset acquired or a liability assumed in a business combination that arises from a contingency (provided the fair value on the date of acquisition of the related asset or liability can be determined).  Both the guidance under ASC Topics 805 and 805-20 became effective as of January 1, 2009 for the Company. Accordingly, any business combination completed prior to January 1, 2009 was accounted for pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations.  Business combinations completed subsequent to January 1, 2009, have been accounted
for
pursuant to ASC Topics 805 and 805-20.
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued guidance now codified under ASC Topic 820.  ASC Topic 820 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and expands
disclosures about fair value measurements.  Under ASC Topic 820, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the market in which the reporting entity transacts.  It also clarifies the principle that fair value should be based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.  ASC Topic 820 applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements.  Accordingly, ASC Topic 820 does not require any new fair value measurements.  The guidance under ASC Topic 820 became effective for the Company on January 1, 2008 with respect to financial assets and financial liabilities and January 1, 2009 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities.   The additional disclosures required by the guidance under ASC Topic 820 are included in Note 7.
 
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
 
In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements  ASU No. 2010-06 outlines certain new disclosures and clarifies some existing disclosure requirements about fair value measurement as set forth in the ASC Topic 820-10.  ASU No. 2010-06 amends ASC Topic 820-10 to now require that (a) a reporting entity should disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and describe the reasons for the transfers; and (b) in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs, a reporting entity should present separately information about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements.  In addition, ASU No. 2010-06 clarifies existing disclosures on (a) how a reporting entity should provide fair value measurement disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities, and (b) how a reporting entity should provide disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements.  ASU No. 2010-06 is effective for the Company in the fourth quarter of 2010, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements. These disclosures will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2011.  Early adoption is permitted.
.
 
In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-13, Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which provides amendments that (a) update the criteria for separating consideration in multiple-deliverable arrangements, (b) establish a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable, and (c) replace the term "fair value" in the revenue allocation guidance with the term "selling price" to clarify that the allocation of revenue is based on entity-specific assumptions.  ASU No. 2009-13 eliminates the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration to deliverables, requires the use of the relative selling price method and requires that a vendor determine its best estimate of selling price in a manner consistent with that used to determine the price to sell the deliverable on a standalone basis.  ASU No. 2009-13 requires a vendor to significantly expand the disclosures related to multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements with the objective to provide information about the significant judgments made and changes to those judgments and how the application of the relative selling-price method affects the timing or amount of revenue recognition.  ASU No. 2009-13 is required to be adopted on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010.  Early adoption is permitted.
NOTE 2.                RESTRUCTURING
 
During 2008 and 2007, the Company recorded restructuring expenses of $92 and $1,627 for employee severance.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, there were no unpaid balances.  There were no restructuring expenses recorded for the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
NOTE 3.                PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
 
Property and equipment (including equipment under capital leases) consist of the following assets, which are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives shown below:
 
 
Depreciation expense on property and equipment (including capital leases) amounted to $5,053, $5,284 and $4,935, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.
 
At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the gross amount of equipment and related accumulated amortization recorded under capital leases were as follows:
 
 
In 2008, the Company transferred a capital lease asset for transponder space to certain affiliates which resulted in a decrease in property and equipment, net, of $2,432, a decrease in a capital lease obligation for transponder space of $2,877, and an increase in accounts payable to affiliates of $445.
 
In 2007, the Company entered into a lease for transponder space qualifying for capitalization resulting in an increase in satellite equipment of $6,547.
 
 
NOTE 4.
                                                
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
The following table summarizes information relating to the Company's acquired intangible assets at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008:
 
 
 
The Company has historically been able to renew affiliation agreements upon expiration and has factored its experience with such renewals in estimating the future cash flows associated with its affiliation agreements and affiliate relationship intangible assets.
 
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 are as follows:
 
 
There were no accumulated impairment losses related to goodwill for any periods as of December 31, 2009.
 
In March 2009, the Company acquired a film web site business for $250 cash and recorded a liability of $231 for the net present value of additional annual required payments of $135 through 2011.  In allocating the $481 purchase price, the Company recorded intangible assets of $126, $274 and $81 for advertiser relationships, other definite-lived intangibles and goodwill, respectively.
 
During 2008, the Company acquired a film web site business for $227 cash, including acquisition costs, and recorded a liability of $574 for the net present value of additional annual required payments of $185 through 2012.  In allocating the $801 purchase price, the Company recorded intangible assets of $160, $370 and $271 for advertiser relationships, other intangibles and goodwill, respectively.
 
During 2007, an adjustment of $1,629 was recorded to reduce goodwill that was pushed down to the Company from Rainbow Media Holdings in prior years.  This adjustment to basis was recorded as a deemed capital distribution to Rainbow Media Holdings amounting to $1,064 in addition to the reduction of the related deferred income tax liability of $565.
 
NOTE 5.
                                                
DEBT
 
Credit Facility
 
The Company has a bank facility providing for an $800,000 senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility"), which consists of a $500,000 term A loan facility, all of which was borrowed in 2006, and a $300,000 revolving credit facility.  The term A loan facility matures June 30, 2013 and the revolving credit facility matures June 30, 2012.  The Credit Facility allows the Company to utilize up to $50,000 of the revolving credit facility for letters of credit and up to $5,000 for a swing loan.  Further, the Credit Facility provides for an incremental facility of up to $925,000, provided that it be for a minimum amount of $100,000.  If an incremental facility is established, the Company and the lenders will enter into a supplement to the Credit Facility with terms and conditions that are no more restrictive than those in the Credit Facility.  There are no commitments from the lenders to fund this incremental facility other than the $280,000 incremental revolver supplement ("Incremental Revolver") entered into on June 3, 2008 discussed below.
 
During 2007, the Company borrowed $23,000 under the revolving credit facility and repaid $33,000 of the outstanding balance under the revolving credit facility. 
In June 2008, the Company borrowed $210,000 under its revolving credit facility which was transferred to Rainbow Media Holdings and recorded as a capital distribution by the Company to its parent, Rainbow Programming Holdings, in connection with Rainbow Media Holding's acquisition of Sundance Channel L.L.C.  Further, during 2008
, the Company borrowed $66,000 under the revolving credit facility and repaid $25,000 and $51,000 of the outstanding balance under the term loan facility and the revolving credit facility, respectively.  In 2009, the Company repaid $25,000 and $95,000 of the outstanding balance under the term loan facility and the revolving credit facility, respectively.  Outstanding borrowings under the term loan facility and revolving
credit facility were $450,000 and $130,000, respectively, at December 31, 2009.  The Company had $170,000 in undrawn revolver commitments at December 31, 2009.
 
Borrowings under the Credit Facility are direct obligations of the Company which are guaranteed jointly and severally by substantially all of its subsidiaries and by Rainbow Programming Holdings, and are secured by the pledge of the stock of the Company and the stock of substantially all of its subsidiaries and all of the other assets of the Company and substantially all of its subsidiaries (subject to certain limited exceptions).
 
Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest based on either the Base Rate (the greater of the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% and the prime rate (as defined in the Credit Facility)) or the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the Credit Facility). The interest rate under the Credit Facility varies, depending on the Company's cash flow ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility), from 1.0% to 1.5% over the Eurodollar Rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and from zero to 0.5% over the Base Rate for Base Rate borrowings. At December 31, 2009, the weighted average interest rates on both the term A loan facility and amounts drawn under the revolving credit facility were 1.25%.
 
The borrowings under the Credit Facility may be repaid without penalty at any time.  The term A loan is to be repaid in quarterly installments of $6,250 in 2010, $12,500 in 2011 and 2012, and $162,500 beginning on March 31, 2013 through its maturity date in June 2013.  Any amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility are due at maturity on June 30, 2012.
 
As defined in the Credit Facility, the financial covenants consist of (i) a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to total interest expense for each quarter of 1.75 to 1, (ii) a maximum cash flow ratio of total indebtedness to operating cash flow of 6.25 to 1, and (iii) a maximum senior secured leverage ratio of senior secured debt to operating cash flow of 5.50 to 1.  Additional covenants include restrictions on indebtedness, guarantees, liens, investments, dividends and distributions and transactions with affiliates.
 
The Company was in compliance with all of its financial covenants under its Credit Facility and Incremental Revolver as of December 31, 2009.
 
The Company is obligated to pay fees of 0.375% per annum on any undrawn revolver commitment.
 
Incremental Revolver
 
On June 3, 2008, the Company entered into an Incremental Revolver whereby the Company received commitments from lenders in the amount of $280,000.  The interest rate under the Incremental Revolver is 2.0% over the Eurodollar rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and 1.0% over the Base Rate for Base Rate borrowings (as defined in the Incremental Revolver).  The Incremental Revolver matures on June 30, 2012 and the terms and conditions of the Incremental Revolver are no more restrictive than those of the Credit Facility.  The Company is obligated to pay fees of 0.375% per annum on any undrawn portion of the Incremental Revolver commitment balance.  Borrowings under the Incremental Revolver may be repaid without
penalty at any time.  There were no borrowings outstanding under the Incremental Revolver facility at December 31, 2009.
 
In connection with the Incremental Revolver, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $2,941 which are being amortized to interest expense over the four-year term of the Incremental Revolver.
,
 
Senior and Senior Subordinated Notes
 
As of December 31, 2009, the Company's notes outstanding consist of $300,000 principal amount of 8 3/4% senior notes due September 1, 2012, and $325,000 principal amount of 10 3/8% senior subordinated notes due September 1, 2014 (following the partial redemption of the Company's senior subordinated notes in August 2007 discussed below).  The senior notes and the senior subordinated notes were discounted $2,163 and $3,915, respectively, upon original issuance in 2004.  These notes are guaranteed by substantially all of the Company's subsidiaries. Principal covenants include a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness based upon a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow (as defined in the indentures) of 6.0 to 1, limitations on dividends and distributions, and limitations on investments and the ability to incur liens (according to the terms of the senior note indenture).
 
In July 2007, the Company entered into an equity commitment agreement with its sole member, Rainbow Programming Holdings, pursuant to which Rainbow Programming Holdings agreed to purchase additional membership interests in the Company for an aggregate purchase price of $203,000 which was recorded as a capital contribution by the Company.  The Company used the proceeds of the investment by Rainbow Programming Holdings to redeem $175,000 in aggregate principal amount of its 10 3/8% senior subordinated notes due 2014, representing 35% of the outstanding notes at a redemption price equal to 110.375% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued and unpaid interest to August 31, 2007, the redemption date. 
In connection with the redemption, the Company recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $19,113, representing the excess of the redemption price over the carrying value of the $175,000 principal amount, and wrote-off the related unamortized deferred financing costs of $2,919.
 
Additionally, the Company may redeem the senior notes, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 102.188% of face value and 100% on or after September 1, 2010.  The senior subordinated notes are redeemable, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 105.188% of face value, 103.458% on or after September 1, 2010, 101.729% on or after September 1, 2011, and 100% on or after September 1, 2012.  The notes are redeemable at the redemption price plus accrued and unpaid interest through the redemption date.
 
The indentures under which the senior notes and the senior subordinated notes were issued contain various other covenants, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the Credit Facility.
 
The Company has no independent assets or operations of its own, the guarantees under the senior notes and the senior subordinated notes are full and unconditional and joint and several, and the net assets of any subsidiaries of the Company other than the subsidiary guarantors are minor. 
There are no restrictions on the ability of the Company or any of the subsidiary guarantors to obtain funds from its subsidiaries by dividend or loan.
 
Summary of Five-Year Debt Maturities
 
Total amounts payable by the Company under its various debt obligations (excluding capital leases) outstanding as of December 31, 2009, during the five years subsequent to December 31, 2009 are as follows:
 
Years Ending December 31,
 
 
NOTE 6.
                                                
DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS
 
To manage interest rate risk, the Company enters into interest rate swap contracts from time to time to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable rates.  Such contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to provide an economic hedge against the risk of rising rates.   The Company does not enter into interest rate swap contracts for speculative or trading purposes and it has only entered into transactions with counterparties that are rated investment grade.  The Company monitors the financial institutions that are counterparties to its interest rate swap contracts and it diversifies its swap contracts among various counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution.
 
In November 2008, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with a notional amount of $450,000 to effectively fix borrowing rates on a substantial portion of the Company's floating rate debt.  The interest rate swap contracts matured in November 2009.  These contracts were not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  F
or the year ended December 31, 2009, realized losses were $3,237 and is reflected in loss on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statement of income.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2008, unrealized losses resulting from changes in the fair value of the Company's interest rate swap contracts and realized losses resulting from net cash interest expense of $2,843 is reflected in loss on derivative contracts in the consolidated statement of income.   As of December 31, 2008, the Company's outstanding interest rate swap contracts had a fair value and carrying value of $2,697, a liability position, as reflected as liability under derivative contracts in the Company's accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
NOTE 7.
                                                
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT
 
The Company adopted the guidance set forth in ASC Topic 820 on January 1, 2008 for certain financial assets and financial liabilities.  ASC Topic 820 requires enhanced disclosures about assets and liabilities measured at fair value.  As noted in Note 1 above, the Company adopted the provisions of ASC Topic 820 with respect to its nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities on January 1, 2009.  However, there were no material nonfinancial assets or nonfinancial liabilities requiring initial measurement or subsequent remeasurement for the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
The fair value hierarchy as outlined in ASC Topic 820 is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are used to measure fair value that are either observable or unobservable.  Observable inputs reflect assumptions market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability based on market data obtained from independent sources while unobservable inputs reflect a reporting entity's pricing based upon their own market assumptions.  The fair value hierarchy consists of the following three levels:
 
                 
Level I - Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
                 
Level II - Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations whose inputs are observable or whose significant value drivers are observable.
                 
Level III - Instruments whose significant value drivers are unobservable.
 
The following table presents for each of these hierarchy levels, the Company's financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008:
 
At December 31, 2009:
 
 
At December 31, 2008:
 
 
The Company's cash equivalents at December 31, 2009 are classified within Level I of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices.  The Company's cash equivalents at December 31, 2008 are classified within Level II of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued primarily on inputs that can be observed with market price information and other relevant information from third-party pricing services.
 
The Company's liabilities under derivative contracts are valued using market-based inputs to valuation models.  These valuation models require a variety of inputs, including contractual
terms and interest rate yield curves.  When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors such as liquidity and credit considerations.  Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence.  Since model inputs can generally be verified and do not involve significant management judgment, the Company has concluded that these instruments should be classified within Level II of the fair value hierarchy.
 
The Company considers the impact of credit risk when measuring the fair value of its derivative asset and/or liability positions, as applicable.
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value:
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
 
Liabilities Under Derivative Contracts
 
Derivative contracts are carried on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at fair value. See Note 6.
 
Bank Debt, Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes
 
The fair values of each of the Company's debt instruments are based on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for instruments of the same remaining maturities.
 
The carrying values and estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments, excluding those that are carried at fair value in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets are summarized as follows:
 
 
(a)
                                 
T
he carrying value of the Company's bank debt which bears interest at variable rates approximates its fair value.
 
Fair value estimates related to the Company's debt instruments presented above are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market information and information about the financial instrument. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgments and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
 
NOTE 8.
                                                
LEASES
 
Cablevision, and companies owned or managed by Cablevision, lease certain office space under long-term lease agreements with non-affiliates.  The leases generally provide for fixed annual rentals plus certain real estate taxes and other costs or credits. The Company pays its share of monthly lease payments for the portion of the premises occupied by its employees.  Rent expense incurred by the Company which was allocated by Cablevision or a company owned or managed by Cablevision for such leases was $3,589, $3,715 and $2,097, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
Certain subsidiaries of the Company lease office space and equipment under long-term non-cancelable operating lease agreements with non-affiliates which expire at various dates through 2013.  The leases generally provide for fixed annual rentals plus certain other costs or credits.  Costs associated with such operating leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease term.  The difference between rent expense and rent paid is recorded as deferred rent.  Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 amounted to $772, $632 and $765, respectively.
 
The minimum future annual payments for all Company operating leases with non-affiliates (with initial or remaining terms in excess of one year) during the next five years from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2014 and thereafter, at rates now in force are as follows:
 
 
Certain capital lease assets for transponder space have been subleased to the Company from an affiliate of Rainbow Media Holdings. Future minimum capital lease payments as of December 31, 2009 with affiliates and non-affiliates are as follows:
 
Of the Company's capital lease obligation at December 31, 2009 and 2008, $6,175 and $6,461, respectively, is due to an affiliate of Rainbow Media Holdings.
 
NOTE 9.
                                                
AFFILIATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Allocations
 
The Company provides services to and receives services from affiliates of Cablevision and Rainbow Media Holdings. The consolidated financial statements of the Company reflect the application of certain cost allocation policies of Cablevision and Rainbow Media Holdings.  Management believes that these allocations have been made on a reasonable basis.  However, it is not practicable to determine whether the allocated amounts represent amounts that might have been incurred on a stand-alone basis, as there are no company-specific or comparable industry benchmarks with which to make such estimates.  Further, as many of these transactions are conducted between subsidiaries under common control of Cablevision, amounts allocated for these services may not represent amounts that might have been received or incurred if the transactions were based upon arm's length negotiations.   Explanations of the composition and the amounts of the more significant transactions and allocations, not explained elsewhere in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements, are described below.
 
The following is a summary of the revenues and expenses included in the Company's consolidated statements of income related to transactions with or allocations from affiliates of Cablevision and Rainbow Media Holdings:
 
 
Revenues, net
 
The Company recognizes revenue from the distribution of programming services to subsidiaries of Cablevision.   The Company distributes programming services to the pay television industry under contracts referred to as affiliation agreements.  The Company together with other subsidiaries of Cablevision, may enter into agreements with third parties in which the amounts paid/received by Cablevision, its subsidiaries, or the Company may differ from the amounts that would have been paid/received if such arrangements were negotiated separately. Where other subsidiaries of Cablevision have incurred a cost incremental to fair value and the Company has received a benefit incremental to fair value from these negotiations in the form of increased affiliation fee revenues, the other subsidiaries of Cablevision charge the Company for the incremental amount.  In one such agreement executed in 2007, other subsidiaries of Cablevision charged the Company $2,433 which was recorded as deferred carriage fees by the Company and is being amortized as a reduction to revenue over the term of the related affiliation agreements.  Amortization of this charge amounted to $331 for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.  In another such agreement executed in 2005, Cablevision charged the Company approximately $4,900, which was recorded as deferred carriage fees by the Company and is being amortized as a reduction to revenue over the remaining license period of the affiliation agreement.  Amortization of this charge amounted to $371 for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.
 
Revenues earned under affiliation agreements with companies owned by or affiliated with Cablevision for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $16,162, $16,018 and $15,293, respectively.
 
Rainbow Media Holdings pays the Company for advertising revenue earned in connection with an agreement between Rainbow Media Holdings and a third party entered into during 2000.  Such revenues were $592, $396 and $361 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  In addition, the Company recorded advertising revenues of $113, $24 and $127 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, earned from subsidiaries of Rainbow Media Holdings.
 
Corporate General and Administrative Costs
 
General and administrative costs, including costs of maintaining corporate headquarters, facilities and common support functions (such as human resources, legal, finance, tax, accounting, audit, treasury, strategic planning, information technology, creative and production services, etc.) have been allocated to the Company by Cablevision and Rainbow Media Holdings.  Certain charges are generally based on relative revenues or expenses of the Company in relation to those of consolidated Cablevision or Rainbow Media Holdings.  The remaining
overhead, principally salaries of corporate executives, is primarily allocated based on management's estimate of the level of effort expended on each business unit based on historical trends.  Such costs allocated to the Company have been included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
 
Health and Welfare Plans
 
Employees of the Company participate in health and welfare plans sponsored by Cablevision.  Health and welfare benefit costs have generally been charged by Cablevision based upon the proportionate number of participants in the plans.  Such costs have been included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
 
Advertising
 
The Company incurs advertising expenses charged
by subsidiaries of Rainbow Media Holdings and Cablevision.
 
Sales Support Function
 
Rainbow Media Holdings provides affiliation sales support functions which primarily include salaries, facilities, and general and administrative costs to the Company.  These costs were included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
 
Other Support Functions, net
 
Rainbow Media Holdings also provides various public relations, acquisitions, digital media and administrative support functions which primarily included salaries, facilities, and general and administrative costs to the Company.  Beginning in 2008, t
he Company provided certain selling, general and administrative support functions to, and incurred certain selling, general and administrative costs on behalf of, affiliates of Rainbow Media Holdings.  Net amounts charged
to selling, general and administrative expenses amounted to $161, $4,368 and $6,273 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and amounts charged to technical and operating expense amounted to $2,878, $3,606 and $2,562 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
Program Rights Usage (Charges)
 
The Company has the right to exhibit and promote films under contracts between the Company and subsidiaries of Rainbow Media Holdings in addition to subsidiaries of Rainbow Media Holdings having the right to exhibit and promote films under contracts between the Company and third parties.  Net amounts paid or received are included in technical and operating expense.
Transmission Programming and Production Services
 
Rainbow Network Communications ("RNC"), a subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings, provides certain transmission and production services to the Company.  Such costs charged to the Company have been included in technical and operating expenses.  The Company has entered into agreements, as amended, that allow RNC to continue providing these services and to make capital purchases on the Company's behalf for transmission related equipment through 2019.  Estimated future cash payments required under these agreements, excluding any obligations relating to transponder space, amount to $9,824 in 2010, $10,281 in 2011, $12,260 in 2012, $12,763 in 2013, $13,291 in 2014 and $70,852 thereafter.  Additionally, RNC leases transponder space to the Company under a transponder lease agreement through 2020.  See Note 8 for amounts due under this arrangement.
 
Management Fees
 
Under contractual agreements, CSC Holdings, LLC (formerly CSC Holdings, Inc.), a wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision, provides certain management services to the Company.  These agreements provide for payment, in addition to expense reimbursement, of an aggregate fee of 3.5% of AMC LLC and its subsidiaries, including WE LLC, gross revenues, as defined in the management agreement.  The agreements are automatically renewable every five years at the option of Cablevision.
 
Share-based Compensation and Long-Term Incentive Plans Expenses
 
Cablevision allocates to the Company its proportionate share of expenses or benefits related to Cablevision's employee stock plans and Cablevision's long-term incentive plans.  Such amounts are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.  Liabilities related to the stock appreciation rights ("SARs") granted under the Cablevision employee stock plans are funded by Rainbow Media Holdings; therefore, similar to other allocated share-based compensation, the allocation to the Company of its proportionate share of the related expenses is reflected as capital contributions from Rainbow Media Holdings in the consolidated financial statements of the Company.  The long-term incentive plans are funded by the Company and aggregate liabilities of $17,639 and $18,996, related to these plans are included in accrued employee related costs and other long-term liabilities in the Company's consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  These liabilities include certain performance based awards for which the performance criteria had not been met as of December 31, 2009 as such awards are based on achievement of certain performance criteria through December 31, 2010 and 2011.  The Company has accrued the amount that it currently believes will ultimately be paid based upon the performance criteria established for these performance-based awards.  If it is subsequently determined that the performance criteria for such awards is not probable of being achieved, the Company would reverse the accrual in respect of such award at that time.
NOTE 10.
             
BENEFIT PLANS
 
Cablevision sponsors a non-contributory, qualified defined benefit cash balance pension plan, a non-contributory non-qualified defined benefit excess cash balance plan, a qualified defined contribution 401(k) savings plan and a non-qualified excess savings plan in which certain employees of the Company participate.  In connection with the cash balance plan and excess cash balance plan, the Company is charged by Cablevision for credits made into an account established for each participant.  Such credits are based upon a percentage of eligible base pay and a market-based rate of return.  The Company also makes matching contributions for a portion of employee voluntary contributions to the 401(k) savings and excess savings plan.  Total expense related to these plans was $2,120, $1,401 and $1,080 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company does not provide postretirement benefits for any of its employees.
 
NOTE 11.
             
INCOME TAXES
 
The Company is a single-member limited liability company, indirectly wholly-owned by Rainbow Media Enterprises, Inc. ("RME"), a taxable corporation.  RME, a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings, is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision.  As such, the Company is treated as a division of RME for income tax purposes and is included in the consolidated federal income tax return of Cablevision.  The income tax provision is determined on a stand-alone basis as if the Company filed separate consolidated income tax returns for the periods presented herein.
 
Income tax expense of the Company consists of the following components:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The income tax expense of the Company differs from the amount derived by applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income due principally to the effect of the following items:
 
The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of deferred tax assets or liabilities at December 31, 2009 and 2008 are as follows:
 
 
AMC LLC is treated as a partnership for income tax purposes.  Accordingly, the Company records deferred income taxes for the outside basis difference with regard to its investment in AMC LLC.
 
Deferred tax assets have resulted from the Company's future deductible temporary differences. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.  The Company's ability to realize its deferred tax assets depends upon the generation of sufficient future taxable income to allow for the realization of its deductible temporary differences.  If such estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets resulting in additional income tax expense in the Company's consolidated statement of income.  Management evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and the need for valuation allowances quarterly.  As of December 31, 2009, based on current facts and circumstances, management believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will fully realize the benefit associated with its gross deferred tax assets.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of the unrecognized tax benefit associated with uncertain tax positions (excluding associated deferred tax benefits and accrued interest) is as follows:
 
 
As of December 31, 2009, if all uncertain tax positions were sustained at the amounts reported or expected to be reported in the Company's tax returns, the Company's income tax expense attributable to continuing operations would decrease by $5,346, excluding the related interest.
 
Interest expense of $777, net of the associated deferred tax benefit of $431, has been recognized during the year ended December 31, 2009 and is included in income tax expense in the consolidated statement of income.  At December 31, 2009, accrued interest on uncertain tax positions of $811 and $1,232 are included in other accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities, respectively, in the consolidated balance sheet.
 
AMC and WE tv are presently under audit by the City of New York with regard to the unincorporated business tax for 2003 through 2005.
 
Management does not believe that the resolution of the ongoing income tax examinations will have a material adverse impact on the financial position of the Company or that it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefit will change significantly within twelve months of December 31, 2009.  Changes in the liabilities for uncertain tax positions will be recognized in the interim period in which the positions are effectively settled or there is a change in factual circumstances.
 
NOTE 12.
             
LEGAL MATTERS
 
Broadcast Music, Inc. Matter
 
Broadcast Music, Inc. ("BMI"), an organization that licenses the performance of musical compositions of its members, has alleged that certain of the Company's subsidiaries require a license to exhibit musical compositions in its catalog. BMI agreed to interim fees based on revenues covering certain periods for certain subsidiaries. These matters were submitted to a Federal Rate Court.  The interim fees paid to BMI remain subject to retroactive adjustment until such time as either a final decision is made by the Court or an agreement is reached by the parties.
Other Legal Matters
 
In addition to the matter discussed above, the Company is party to various lawsuits and claims in the ordinary course of business.  Although the outcome of these other matters cannot be predicted with certainty and the impact of the final resolution of these other matters on the Company's results of operations in a particular subsequent reporting period is not known, management does not believe that the resolution of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company or the ability of the Company to meet its financial obligations as they become due.
 
NOTE 13.
             
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
The Company classifies its business interests into two reportable segments: AMC Networks (which includes AMC and WE tv) and IFC.  These reportable segments are strategic business units that are managed separately.  The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment adjusted operating cash flow (defined as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense or benefit and restructuring expense or credits), a non-GAAP measure.  The Company has presented the components that reconcile adjusted operating cash flow to operating income, an accepted GAAP measure.  Information as to the operations of the Company's business segments is set forth below.
 
 
Reconciliation (by Segment and in Total) of Adjusted Operating Cash Flow to Operating Income
 
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment amounts to the Company's consolidated balances is as follows:
 
 
 
Substantially all revenues and assets of the Company's reportable segments are attributed to or located in the United States.
 
Concentrations of Credit Risk
 
Financial instruments that may potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade account receivables.  Cash is invested in money market funds and bank time deposits.  The Company monitors the financial institutions and money market funds where it invests its cash and cash equivalents with diversification among counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution.  The Company's
emphasis is primarily on safety of principal and liquidity and secondarily on maximizing the yield on its investments.
 
The following individual customers accounted for the following percentages of the AMC networks and IFC segments' net revenues for the years ended December 31,:
 
 
The following individual customers accounted for the following percentages of the AMC Networks and IFC segments' net trade receivable balances at December 31,:
 
 
NOTE 14.
             
INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
The following is a summary of the Company's selected quarterly financial data for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008:
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
This
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
for the year ended December 31, 2009 is separately furnished by Rainbow National Services LLC and its subsidiaries ("RNS" and collectively with its subsidiaries, the "Company", "we", "us" or "our").
 
This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationscontains statements that constitute forward looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  In this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, there are statements concerning our future operating and future financial performance.  Words such as "expects", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "may", "will", "should", "could", "potential", "continue", "intends", "plans" and similar words and terms used in the discussion of future operating and future financial performance identify forward-looking statements.
 
Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties and that actual results or developments may differ materially from the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.  Factors that may cause such differences to occur include, but are not limited to:
 
                 
the level of our revenues;
 
                 
the cost of programming and industry conditions;
 
                 
changes in the laws or regulations under which we operate;
 
                 
the outcome of litigation and other proceedings, including the matters described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements;
 
                 
general economic conditions in the areas in which we operate;
 
                 
the state of the market for debt securities and bank loans;
 
                 
demand for advertising inventory;
 
                 
our ability to obtain or produce content for our programming businesses;
 
                 
the level of our capital expenditures;
 
                 
the level of our expenses;
 
                 
future acquisitions and dispositions of assets;
 
                 
the demand for our programming among cable television system operators, direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators and telephone companies and our ability to maintain and renew affiliation agreements with cable television system operators, DBS operators and telephone companies;
                 
market demand for new programming services;
 
                 
whether pending uncompleted transactions, if any, are completed on the terms and at the times set forth (if at all);
 
                 
other risks and uncertainties inherent in our programming businesses;
 
                 
financial community and rating agency perceptions of our business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which we operate, and the additional factors described herein.
 
We disclaim any obligation to update or revise the forward looking statements contained herein, except as otherwise required by applicable federal securities laws.
 
Overview
 
All dollar amounts and per unit data, included in the following discussion are presented in thousands.
 
We provide television programming to cable television system operators, DBS operators
and telephone companies (collectively referred to as "operators")
primarily throughout the United States.  We own three nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment programming networks:  AMC, WE tv and IFC.
 
Our future performance is dependent, to a large extent, on
general economic conditions including the impact of direct competition, our ability to manage our businesses effectively, and our relative strength and leverage in the marketplace, both with suppliers and customers.
 
Continued capital and credit market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our products, such as lower levels of television advertising and increased incidence of our customer's inability to pay for the services we provide.  We have experienced some of the effects of this economic downturn.  Continuation of events such as these may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.
 
We earn revenues in two principal ways.  First, we receive affiliation payments from operators.  These revenues are generally earned on a per subscriber basis under multi-year contracts with those operators referred to as "affiliation agreements". The specific affiliation fee revenues we earn vary from period to period, operator to operator and also vary among our networks, but are generally based upon the number of each operator's subscribers who receive our programming, referred to as "viewing subscribers," or are a fixed contractual monthly fee.
 
The second principal source of revenues is from advertising.  Under our affiliation agreements, we have the right to sell a specific amount of national advertising time on our programming networks.  Our advertising revenues are more variable than affiliation fee revenues because most of our advertising is sold on a short-term basis, not under long-term contracts.  Also, most of our advertising revenues vary based upon the popularity of our programming as measured by rating services.
We seek to grow our revenues by increasing the number of operators that carry our services and the number of viewing subscribers.  We refer to this as our "penetration."  AMC, which is widely distributed, has less ability to increase its penetration than WE tv and IFC, which are not as widely distributed as AMC, a primarily analog service.  WE tv and IFC, although carried by many of the larger operators, have higher growth opportunities due to their current penetration levels with those operators.  IFC is currently carried primarily on digital tiers, while WE tv is carried on either analog expanded basic or digital tiers.  Therefore, WE tv and IFC penetration rates may increase if operators are successful in converting their analog subscribers to highly penetrated digital tiers of service. Our revenues may also increase over time through contractual rate increases stipulated in certain of our affiliation agreements.  In negotiating for increased or extended carriage, we may be subject to requests by operators to make upfront payments in exchange for additional subscribers or extended carriage, which we record as deferred carriage fees and which are amortized as a reduction to revenue over the period of the related affiliation agreements, or to waive for a specified period or accept lower per subscriber fees if certain additional subscribers are provided. We also may help fund the operators' efforts to market our channels. As we continue our efforts to add subscribers, our subscriber revenue may be negatively affected by subscriber acquisition fees (deferred carriage), discounted subscriber fees and other payments; however, we believe that these transactions generate a positive return on investment over the contract period.  We seek to increase our advertising revenues by increasing the number of minutes of national advertising sold and by increasing the rates we charge for such advertising, but, ultimately, the level of our advertising revenues, in most cases, is directly related to the overall distribution of our programming, penetration of our services and the popularity (including within desirable demographic groups) of our services as measured by rating services.
 
Our principal goals are to increase our affiliation fee revenues and our advertising revenues by increasing distribution and penetration of our services.  To do this, we must continue to contract for and produce high-quality, attractive programming.  One of our greatest challenges arises from the increasing concentration of subscribers in the hands of a few operators, creating disparate bargaining power between the largest operators and us.  This increased concentration could adversely affect our ability to increase the penetration of our services or even result in decreased penetration.  In addition, this concentration gives those operators greater leverage in negotiating the price and other terms of affiliation agreements.
 
The following individual customers accounted for the following percentages of the Company's net revenues for the years ended December 31,:
 
 
The following individual customers accounted for the following percentages of the Company's net trade receivable balances at December 31,:
 
As a result of this concentration, the potential impact of a loss of any one of our major affiliate relationships would have a significant adverse impact on our business.
 
The Company classifies its business interests into two reportable segments:  AMC Networks (which comprises AMC and WE tv) and IFC.
 
Critical Accounting Policies
 
In preparing its financial statements, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that it believes are reasonable based upon the information available.  These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented.  The significant accounting policies which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following:
 
Impairment of Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets:
 
The Company's long-lived and indefinite-lived assets at December 31, 2009 include goodwill of $51,309, other long-lived intangible assets of $171,946, property and equipment, net of $21,996 and long-term program rights of $503,411.  Such assets accounted for approximately 59% of the Company's consolidated total assets.  Goodwill is tested annually for impairment during the first quarter and at any time upon the occurrence of certain events or substantive changes in circumstances.
 
In accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standard Codification ("ASC") Topic 350-10, the Company is required to determine goodwill impairment using a two-step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be recognized in a business combination.  For the purpose of evaluating goodwill impairment, the Company has three reporting units.  These reporting units are the AMC, We tv and IFC reporting units.    Goodwill amounts at December 31, 2009 for AMC, Wetv and IFC are $32,513, $5,214 and $13,582, respectively.
 
For other long-lived assets, including intangible assets that are amortized, the Company evaluates assets for recoverability when there is an indicator of potential impairment. If the undiscounted cash flows from a group of assets being evaluated is less than the carrying value of that group of assets, the fair value of the asset group is determined and the carrying value of the asset group is written down to fair value.
 
In assessing the recoverability of the Company's goodwill and other long-lived assets, the Company must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether an impairment charge is recognized and also the magnitude of any
such charge.  Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant information.  These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgments and therefore cannot be determined with precision.  Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.  Estimates of fair value are primarily determined using discounted cash flows and comparable market transactions. These valuations are based on estimates and assumptions including projected future cash flows, discount rate, determination of appropriate market comparables and the determination of whether a premium or discount should be applied to comparables. These valuations also include assumptions for projected average rates per basic and viewing subscribers and growth in fixed price contractual arrangements used to determine affiliation fee revenues, access to program rights and the cost of such program rights, amount of programming time that is advertiser supported, number of advertising spots available and the sell through rates for those spots, average fee per advertising spot, and operating margins, among other assumptions. If these estimates or material related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges related to our long-lived assets.
 
Based on the Company's annual impairment test during the first quarter of 2009, the Company's reporting units had significant safety margins, representing the excess of the estimated fair value of each reporting unit over their respective carrying values (including goodwill allocated to each respective reporting unit).  In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the estimated fair value calculations of the Company's reporting units on the annual impairment calculation for goodwill, the Company applied a hypothetical 30% decrease to the estimated fair values of each reporting unit.  This hypothetical decrease would have no impact on the goodwill impairment analysis for any of the Company's reporting units.
 
Useful Lives of Finite-Lived Intangible Assets
 
The Company has recognized intangible assets for affiliation agreements and affiliate relationships, advertiser relationships and other identifiable intangible assets as a result of purchase accounting.  The Company has determined that such intangible assets have finite lives.  The estimated useful lives and net carrying values of these intangibles at December 31, 2009 are as follows:
 
 
The useful lives for the affiliation agreements and affiliate relationships were determined based upon an analysis of the weighted average remaining terms of existing agreements the Company had in place with its major customers at the time that purchase accounting was applied, plus an estimate for renewals of such agreements. The Company has been successful in renewing its major affiliation agreements and maintaining customer relationships in the past and believes it will be able to renew its major affiliation agreements and maintain those customer relationships in the future. However, it is possible that the Company will not successfully renew such agreements as they expire or that if it does, the net revenue earned may not equal or exceed the net revenue currently being earned, which could have a significant adverse impact on our
business. In light of these facts and circumstances, the Company has determined that an estimated useful life of 10 years for affiliation agreements and affiliate relationships is appropriate.
 
There have been periods when an existing affiliation agreement has expired and the parties have not finalized negotiations of either a renewal of that agreement or a new agreement for certain periods of time. In substantially all these instances, the affiliates continued to carry and pay for the service under oral or written interim agreements until execution of definitive replacement agreements or renewals.
 
If an affiliate were to cease carrying a service on an other than temporary basis, the Company would record an impairment charge for the then remaining carrying value of that affiliation agreement and affiliate relationship intangible asset. If the Company were to renew an affiliation agreement at rates that produced materially less net revenue compared to the net revenue produced under the previous agreement, the Company would evaluate the impact on its cash flows and, if necessary, would further evaluate such indication of potential impairment by following the policy described above under "Impairment of Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets" for the asset group containing that intangible asset. The Company also would evaluate whether the remaining useful life of the affiliation agreements and affiliate relationships remained appropriate. Based on December 31, 2009 carrying values, if the estimated life of all affiliation agreements and affiliate relationships were shortened by 10%, the effect on amortization for the year ending December 31, 2010 would be to increase our annual amortization expense by approximately $4,901.
 
Program Rights and Related Obligations
 
Rights to programming, including feature films and episodic series, acquired under license agreements along with the related obligations are recorded at the contract value when a license agreement is executed, unless there is uncertainty with respect to either cost, acceptability or availability.  If such uncertainty exists, those rights and obligations are recorded at the earlier of when the uncertainty is resolved or when the license period begins.  Costs are amortized to technical and operating expense on a straight-line basis over the respective license periods.
 
Owned original programming is produced for us by independent production companies.  Any owned original programming costs qualifying for capitalization as program rights are amortized to technical and operating expense over their estimated useful lives, commencing upon the first airing, based on attributable revenue for airings to date as a percentage of total projected attributable revenue.  Projected program usage is based on the historical performance of similar content.  Estimated cash flows can change based upon programming market acceptance, levels of affiliation fee revenues and advertising revenues, and program usage.  Accordingly, we periodically review revenue estimates and planned usage and revise our assumptions if necessary which could impact the timing of amortization expenses or result in an impairment charge.
 
We periodically review the programming usefulness of our program rights based on a series of factors, including ratings, type and quality of program material, standards and practices, and fitness for exhibition.  If it is determined that film or other program rights have no future programming usefulness, a write-off of the unamortized cost is recorded in technical and operating expense.  Impairment charges of $7,178 were recorded for the year ended December 
31, 2009.  There were no impairment charges recorded in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.
 
Cautionary Note Concerning Historical Financial Statements
 
Our financial information does not necessarily reflect what our results of operations and financial position would have been if we had operated as an entity separate from Cablevision Systems Corporation, our indirect parent, during the periods presented herein.
 
Results of Operations
 
The following table sets forth on a historical basis certain items related to operations as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DATA
 
 
The following is a reconciliation of operating income to Adjusted Operating Cash Flow ("AOCF"):
 
 
The following is a reconciliation of operating income to AOCF:
 
 
Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2009 Versus Year Ended December 31, 2008
 
Revenues, net
for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $73,931 (10%) as compared to revenues for the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
 
 
The increase in advertising revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the prior year at AMC Networks resulted principally from higher units sold at AMC and improved program ratings at WE tv.  The increase in sponsorship revenues at IFC is due to increased sponsorship driven by fourth quarter sponsorship sales.  The increase in affiliation fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the prior year is due to
increases in affiliation rates and increases in the number of our viewing subscribers (see table below).
 
 
The Company believes the WE tv and IFC programming services may benefit from increased distribution, especially on the digital tiers of cable television system operators as digital penetration increases, and increased advertising revenues as cable networks, including ad-supported niche programming networks (such as WE tv), attract a greater advertising market share.  These increases could potentially be offset by lower net effective rates per viewing subscriber for our programming services due to the consolidation of operators and limited opportunities for increases in distribution in the United States for our substantially fully penetrated AMC programming service.  Changes in the viewership ratings of our AMC and WE tv programming services may also significantly affect future advertising revenues.
 
Additionally, continued capital market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our services, such as lower levels of advertising and increased incidence of our advertising customer's inability to pay for the services we provide.
 
Technical and operating expenses
include primarily amortization of program rights, including those for feature films and non-film programming, and distribution and production related costs.  Depreciation and amortization expense of fixed assets and amortizable intangibles is not included in technical and operating expenses but is presented as a separate operating expense.
 
Technical and operating expenses for 2009 increased $35,793 (17%) compared to 2008.  The increase in technical and operating expenses is attributed to the following:
 
 
The increase in amortization of programming content costs and series development/original programming costs of $31,108 at AMC Networks for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in the prior year is due primarily to increased amortization of non-film program rights.  The increase of $2,859 at IFC is due primarily to increased amortization of film and non-film program rights, partially offset by a decrease in costs incurred related to development of original programming.  The increase in programming related costs at AMC Networks is due primarily to increased interstitial programming costs and high-definition formatting costs.
 
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses was 30% for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 28% for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
There may be significant changes in the level of our expenses from quarter to quarter and/or changes from year to year due to content acquisitions and/or original programming costs.  As additional competition for product increases from other programming services and alternate distribution technologies continue to develop in the industry, costs for content acquisitions and/or original programming may increase.
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses
include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs and costs of facilities. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $10,068 (5%) for 2009 as compared to 2008.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
 
 
The increase in sales and marketing costs at AMC Networks of $1,099 is primarily related to an increase in advertising sales related expenses due to increased advertising sales revenues in 2009 compared to 2008, partially offset by a decrease in spending for the marketing and promotion of original programming in 2009 compared to 2008.  The decrease in sales and marketing costs at IFC of $2,293 is primarily related to a decrease in marketing and promotion of original programming in 2009 compared to 2008.  The increase in other general and administrative costs at AMC Networks is due primarily to increased parent company allocations of $3,008 and rent related expenses of $860.  The increase in other general and administrative costs at IFC is due
 
primarily to increased parent company allocations of $1,064 and an increase in employee related costs of $970. Management fees increased due to the increased revenues of AMC Networks in 2009 compared to 2008. 
Pursuant to an agreement with CSC Holdings LLC
(formerly CSC Holdings, Inc.)
, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision,
American Movie Classics Company LLC ("AMC LLC") and WE: Women's Entertainment LLC ("WE LLC")
pay a management fee of 3.5% of their revenues (as defined under the terms of the agreement) to
CSC Holdings
on a monthly basis.
 
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 27% in 2009 compared to 28% in 2008.
 
Restructuring expense
of $92 for the year ended December 31, 2008 represents the allocation of severance charges from the Company's indirect parent resulting from the elimination of certain staff positions due to the consolidation and reorganization of certain departments at the parent company for which the costs of such departments are partially allocated to the Company.
 
Depreciation and amortization
decreased $1,731 (3%) for 2009 as compared to 2008 due to a decrease in amortization expense of $1,500 due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in the second quarter of 2009 in addition to a decrease in depreciation of $231 relating to certain fixed assets becoming fully depreciated.
 
Net interest expense
decreased $14,167 (16%) during 2009 compared to 2008. The net decrease was attributable to the following:
 
 
Loss on derivative contracts
was $(3,237) compared to $(2,843) for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  The interest rate swap contracts effectively fixed the borrowing rates on a substantial portion of the Company's floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates.  The loss on interest rate swap contracts resulted from a shift in the yield curve over the life of the swap contracts.  The interest rate swap contracts matured in November 2009.
 
Income tax expense
of $79,611 for the year ended December 31, 2009 resulted primarily from pretax income, the impact of state income taxes, non-deductible expenses, a tax expense of $3,316, including accrued interest and the related deferred tax benefits, relating to uncertain tax positions and tax benefit of $2,763 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to determine deferred taxes.
 
Income tax expense of $66,414 for the year ended December 31, 2008 resulted primarily from pretax income, the impact of state income taxes, non-deductible expenses, a tax expense of $1,706, including accrued interest and the related deferred tax benefits, relating to uncertain tax positions and tax expense of $522 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to determine deferred taxes.
 
Adjusted operating cash flow
increased $30,824 in 2009 compared to 2008 due to an increase in revenues, net of $73,931, partially offset by an increase in technical and operating expense of $35,793 and an increase in selling general and administrative expense of $7,314 in 2009 compared to 2008, excluding share-based compensation expense, as further discussed above.
 
Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2008 Versus Year Ended December 31, 2007
 
Revenues, net
for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased $72,711 (11%) as compared to revenues for the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
 
 
The increase in advertising revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the prior year at AMC Networks resulted principally from higher pricing and units sold.  The decrease at IFC is due to decreased sponsorship revenues related to decreased sponsorship sales.  The increase in affiliation fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the prior year is due to
an increase in viewing subscribers and per subscriber or fixed monthly rate increases.
 
 
Technical and operating expenses
include primarily amortization of program rights, including those for feature films, and distribution and production related costs.  Depreciation and amortization expense of fixed assets and amortizable intangibles is not included in technical and operating expenses but is presented as a separate operating expense.
 
Technical and operating expenses for 2008 increased $18,645 (10%) compared to 2007.  The increase in technical and operating expenses is attributed to the following:
 
 
The increase in amortization of programming content costs and series development/original programming costs of $6,506 at AMC Networks for the year ended December 31, 2008
 
 
 
compared to the same period in the prior year is due primarily to an increase in amortization of licensed and owned original programming costs, partially offset by a decrease in amortization of licensed film content and series development expenses.  The increase of $3,799 at IFC is due primarily to increased amortization of licensed film content and to a lesser extent owned original programming costs.  The increase in programming related costs is due primarily to increased non-film programming costs, broadband/video-on-demand related costs and other programming related costs.
 
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses was 28% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses
include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs and costs of facilities. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $30,041 (17%) for 2008 as compared to 2007.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
 
 
The increase in sales and marketing costs at AMC Networks of $17,545 is primarily related to the increase in costs for the marketing and promotion of original programming series premieres and an increase in advertising sales related expenses due to increased advertising sales revenues in 2008 compared to 2007.  The increase in other general and administrative costs at AMC Networks is primarily due to an increase in rent expense of $2,663, an increase in legal expenses of $795 and increased parent company allocations of $2,616.  The increase in other general and administrative costs at IFC is primarily due to an increase in rent expense of $582 and increased parent company allocations of $913.  Management fees increased due to the increased revenues of AMC Networks in 2008 compared to 2007.
 
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 28% in 2008 compared to 27% in 2007.
 
Restructuring expense
of $92 for the year ended December 31, 2008 represents the allocation of severance charges from the Company's indirect parent resulting from the elimination of certain staff positions due to the consolidation and reorganization of certain departments at the parent company for which the costs of such departments are partially allocated to the Company.
 
Depreciation and amortization
decreased $53 (less than 1%) for 2008 as compared to 2007 due to a decrease in amortization expense of $402 due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in the first quarter of 2007, partially offset by an increase in depreciation of $349 relating to fixed assets placed in service during 2008.
 
Net interest expense
decreased $20,374 (19%) during 2008 compared to 2007. The net decrease was attributable to the following:
 
 
Loss on derivative contracts
was $(2,843) for the year ended December 31, 2008.  As the underlying interest rate swap contracts were entered into in November 2008, there was no such loss for the year ended December 31, 2007.  The interest rate swap contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on a substantial portion of the Company's floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates.  The loss on interest rate swap contracts resulted from a shift in the yield curve over the life of the swap contracts.
 
Income tax expense
of $66,414 for the year ended December 31, 2008 resulted primarily from pretax income, the impact of state income taxes, non-deductible expenses, a tax expense of $1,706, including accrued interest and the related deferred tax benefits, relating to uncertain tax positions and tax expense of $522 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to determine deferred taxes.
 
Income tax expense of $42,978 for the year ended December 31, 2007 resulted primarily from pretax income, the impact of state taxes, non-deductible expenses, a tax expense of $1,628, including accrued interest and the related deferred tax benefits, relating to uncertain tax positions and tax expense of $1,066 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to determine deferred taxes.
 
Adjusted operating cash flow
increased $24,954 in 2008 compared to 2007 due to an increase in revenues, net of $72,711, partially offset by an increase in technical and operating expense of $18,645 and an increase in selling general and administrative expense of $29,112, excluding share-based compensation expense, in 2008 compared to 2007, as discussed above.
 
CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
 
Operating Activities
 
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $238,865 for the year ended
December 31
, 2009 compared to $122,518 for the year ended
December 31, 2008
.  The 2009 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $394,650 of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items and an increase in accounts payable to affiliates of $87,115, partially offset by t
he acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to program rights totaling $231,350, deferred carriage fee payments of $2,583 and an increase in net other assets totaling $8,967.
 
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $122,518 for the year ended
December 31
, 2008 compared to $126,625 for the year ended
December 31, 2007
.  The 2008 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $341,109 of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items and an increase in cash resulting from a decrease in net other assets totaling
 
$4,199, partially offset by t
he acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to program rights totaling $203,916 and deferred carriage fee payments of $18,874.
 
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $126,625 for the year ended
December 31
, 2007.  The 2007 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $305,231 of income before depreciation and amortization and other non-cash items,
an increase in accounts payable to affiliates, net of $48,290 and a decrease in net other assets totaling $13,652, partially offset by
a decrease in cash
resulting primarily from the acquisition and payment of obligations relating to program rights totaling $178,665, an increase in accounts receivable, trade of $21,371 due primarily to an increase in affiliate trade receivables, deferred carriage fee payments of $28,683, and a decrease in accrued interest of $11,829 due primarily to a decrease in outstanding debt following the early redemption of a portion of our senior subordinated notes in August 2007
.
 
Investing Activities
 
Net cash used in investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $3,004, $5,119 and $6,968, respectively, which consisted primarily of capital expenditures for the purchase of technical equipment for the transmission of our networks in high-definition.
 
Financing Activities
 
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $224,688 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $155,889 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  In 2009, financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $104,000, repayment of bank debt of $120,000 and principal payments on capital leases of $688.
 
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $155,889 for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to $75,584 for the year ended December 31, 2007.  In 2008, financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $352,250, repayment of bank debt of $76,000, payment of financing costs of $2,941 associated with a new incremental revolver supplement entered into in June 2008 and principal payments on capital leases of $698, partially offset by proceeds from bank debt of $276,000 (as described below).
 
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $75,584 for the year ended December 31, 2007.  In 2007, financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $74,820, $193,158 for the partial redemption of $175,000 of our senior subordinated notes including a redemption premium of $18,158, repayment of bank debt of $33,000, and principal payments on capital leases of $606, partially offset by proceeds from bank debt of $23,000 and a cash contribution from our parent of $203,000.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
Overview
 
The operations of the businesses that are included in our consolidated financial statements collectively have historically generated positive cash flow from operating activities.  However, each of our programming businesses has substantial programming, acquisition and development expenditure requirements.
 
We generated positive net cash from operating activities for each of the three years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.  Sources of cash include primarily cash flow from the operations of our businesses and borrowings under our revolving credit facilities.  Our principal uses of cash include:  our debt service and
the net funding and investment requirements of other programming services that we do not own, including
Rainbow's regional news networks ("News 12 Networks"), MSG Varsity,
and the continuing international operations of the
VOOM HD Networks.  We currently expect our net funding and investment requirements for the next twelve months, including term loan repayments aggregating $25,000, will be met with one or more of the following:  our cash on hand, cash generated by our operating activities and available borrowings under our bank credit facilities.  Our decision as to the use of cash on hand, cash generated from operating activities and borrowings under our bank credit facilities will be based upon an ongoing review of the funding needs of the business, the optimal allocation of cash resources, the timing of cash flow generation and the cost of borrowing under our bank credit facilities.  Moreover, we will monitor the credit markets and may seek opportunities to issue debt, the proceeds of which could be used to fund cash requirements or make distributions to CSC Holdings or other Rainbow businesses that we do not own. 
We have accessed the debt markets for significant amounts of capital in the past and may do so in the future. 
During the year ended December 31, 2009, we distributed $104,000 to Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC ("RPH"), our direct parent, to, among other things, fund certain other programming services, including News 12 Networks, MSG Varsity and VOOM HD Networks.
 
We have assessed the implications of the recent distress in the capital and credit markets on our ability to meet our net funding and investment requirements over the next twelve months and we believe that a combination of cash-on-hand, cash generated from operating activities and availability under our revolving credit facilities should provide us with sufficient liquidity. However, additional market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our services, such as lower levels of advertising.  These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.  Although we currently believe that amounts available under our revolving credit facilities will be available when, and if needed, we can provide no assurance that access to such funds will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. The obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facilities are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others.
 
The following table summarizes our outstanding debt, including capital lease obligations, interest expense and capital expenditures as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009:
 
 
Total amounts payable by the Company in connection with its outstanding obligations during the five years subsequent to December 31, 2009 and thereafter, including capital leases with affiliates and non-affiliates and related interest, as of December 31, 2009 are as follows:
 
 
Debt Financing Agreements
 
We have an $800,000 senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility"), which consists of a $500,000 term A loan facility and a $300,000 revolving credit facility.  The term A loan facility matures June 30, 2013 and the revolving credit facility matures June 30, 2012.  The Credit Facility allows us to utilize up to $50,000 of the revolving credit facility for letters of credit and up to $5,000 for a swing loan.  Further, the Credit Facility provides for an incremental facility of up to $925,000, provided that it be for a minimum amount of $100,000.  On June 3, 2008, we entered into an Incremental Revolver Supplement ("Incremental Revolver") whereby we received commitments from lenders in the amount of $280,000.  The interest rate under the Incremental Revolver is 2.0% over the Eurodollar rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and 1.0% over the Base Rate for Base Rate borrowings (as defined in the Incremental Revolver).  The Incremental Revolver matures on June 30, 2012 and the terms and conditions of the Incremental Revolver are no more restrictive than those of our Credit Facility.  Borrowings under the Incremental Revolver may be repaid without penalty at any time.  There were no borrowings outstanding under the Incremental Revolver facility at December 31, 2009.
 
Outstanding borrowings under our term A loan facility and the original revolving credit facility were $450,000 and $130,000, respectively, at December 31, 2009.  At December 31, 2009, the weighted average interest rate on both the term A loan facility and amounts drawn under the original revolving credit facility was 1.25%.  As of December 31, 2009, $130,000 of the revolving credit facility was drawn and we had $450,000 in total undrawn revolver commitments consisting of $170,000 under our original revolver and $280,000 under the Incremental Revolver, which undrawn amounts were available to be drawn to meet our net funding and investment requirements.  The borrowings under the Credit Facility may be repaid without penalty at any time.  We are obligated to pay fees of 0.375% per annum on any undrawn revolver commitment.
 
Borrowings under the Credit Facility are our direct obligations which are guaranteed jointly and severally by substantially all of our subsidiaries and by RPH, our direct parent.  Such borrowings are secured by the pledge of our stock and the stock of substantially all of our subsidiaries and all of our other assets and the assets of substantially all of our subsidiaries (subject to certain limited exceptions).  The term A loan requires quarterly repayments of $6,250 in 2010, $12,500 in 2011 and 2012 and $162,500 on March 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013, the maturity of the term A loan.  Any amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facilities are due at maturity on June 30, 2012.
 
The Credit Facility contains various financial and other covenants.  As defined in the Credit Facility, the financial covenants consist of (i) a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to total interest expense for each quarter of 1.75 to 1, (ii) a maximum cash flow ratio of total indebtedness to operating cash flow of 6.25 to 1, and (iii) a maximum senior secured leverage ratio of senior secured debt to operating cash flow of 5.50 to 1.  Additional covenants include restrictions on indebtedness, guarantees, liens, investments, dividends and distributions and transactions with affiliates.
 
We were in compliance with all of our financial covenants under our Credit Facility and our Incremental Revolver as of December 31, 2009.
 
As of December 31, 2009, we also have outstanding $300,000 principal amount of 8 3/4% senior notes
due September 1, 2012 and
$325,000 principal amount of 10 3/8% senior subordinated notes
due September 1, 2014
. 
These notes are guaranteed by substantially all of our subsidiaries.
 
The indentures under which the senior notes and the senior subordinated notes were issued contain various other covenants, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the Credit Facility.
 
Future access to the debt markets and the cost of any future debt issuances are also influenced by our credit ratings, which are provided by Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") and Standard & Poor's.  Key factors in the assessment of our credit ratings include our free cash flow generating capacity, fiscal strategy, enterprise value and industry risk.  Our corporate credit rating is Ba2 by Moody's with a stable outlook and BB by Standard & Poor's with a negative outlook.  Any future downgrade to our credit ratings by either rating agency could increase the interest rate on future debt issuances and could adversely impact our ability to raise additional funds.
 
In November 2008, we entered into interest rate swap contracts with a notional amount of $450,000 to effectively fix borrowing rates on a substantial portion of our floating rate debt.  These contracts were not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  In November 2009, these contracts matured.
 
Rainbow Media Holdings Promissory Note
 
As of December 31, 2009, Madison Square Garden, L.P., a subsidiary of Madison Square Garden, Inc., which Cablevision distributed to its stockholders on February 9, 2010, had extended intercompany loans aggregating $190,000 to Rainbow Media Holdings, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision and our indirect parent.  On January 28, 2010, the intercompany loans were replaced with a promissory note from Rainbow Media Holdings to Madison Square Garden, L.P. having a principal amount of $190,000.  The note will accrue interest at a rate of 3.25% per annum.  The note is non-amortizing and has a maturity date of June 30, 2010 with prepayment without penalty at Rainbow Media Holdings' option.  Rainbow Media Holdings expects to be able to repay the promissory note through the use of one or more of the following: cash on hand, cash generated by operating activities and available borrowings under Cablevision's or our credit facilities.
 
Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Commitments
 
The Company's contractual obligations to affiliates and non-affiliates as of December 31, 2009, which consist primarily of our debt obligations, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods, are summarized in the following table:
 
 
See note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our long-term debt.  See note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our leases.  See note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our program rights obligations.
 
(1)
                     
Purchase obligation amounts not reflected on the balance sheet consist primarily of (i) long-term program rights obligations and (ii) long-term transmission service commitments.
(2)
                     
Operating lease commitments represent future minimum payment obligations on various long-term, noncancelable leases for office space and office equipment.
(3)
                     
Includes future payments due on the Company's (i) bank debt, (ii) senior notes, and (iii) senior subordinated notes (excludes interest payments).
(4)
                     
Amount above reflects the face amount of capital lease obligations, including related interest.
(5)
                     
This amount represents primarily long-term program rights obligations to affiliates and additional annual required payments relating to the acquisitions of film web site businesses in 2008 and 2009.
(6)
                    
This amount represents tax liabilities, including accrued interest, relating to uncertain tax positions.
 
Interest Rate Risk
 
To manage interest rate risk, we enter into interest rate swap contracts from time to time to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable interest rates.  Such contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates.  We do not enter into interest rate swap contracts for speculative or trading purposes.  We monitor the financial institutions that are counterparties to our interest rate swap contracts and we only enter into interest rate swap contracts with financial institutions that are rated investment grade.  We
 
diversify our swap contracts among various counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution.
 
Interest rate risk is primarily a result of exposures to changes in the level, slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates and credit spreads.
 
All interest rate swap contracts are carried at their fair values on our consolidated balance sheets, with changes in value reflected in the consolidated statements of income.  As noted above, our interest rate swap contracts matured in November 2009.
 
As of December 31, 2009, we have $1,203,100 of debt outstanding, of which $580,000 outstanding under our Credit Facility is subject to variable interest rates.  The effect of a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates prevailing at December 31, 2009 could have an adverse affect on our annual interest expense of approximately $6,000.
 
Fair Value of Debt
 
Based on the level of interest rates prevailing at December 31, 2009, the fair value of our fixed rate debt of $648,515 was more that its carrying value of $623,100 by $25,415.  The fair value of these financial instruments is estimated based on reference to quoted market prices for these or comparable securities.  The effect of a hypothetical 100 basis point decrease in interest rates prevailing at December 31, 2009 would increase the estimated fair value of our fixed rate debt by
$1,708 to $650,223.  This estimate is based on the assumption of an immediate and parallel shift in interest rates across all maturities.
 
Our floating rate borrowings bear interest in reference to current LIBOR-based market rates and thus their carrying values approximate fair value.
 
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
 
In January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements  ASU No. 2010-06 outlines certain new disclosures and clarifies some existing disclosure requirements about fair value measurement as set forth in the Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 820-10.  ASU No. 2010-06 amends ASC Topic 820-10 to now require that (a) a reporting entity should disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and describe the reasons for the transfers; and (b) in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs, a reporting entity should present separately information about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements.  In addition, ASU No. 2010-06 clarifies existing disclosures on (a) how a reporting entity should provide fair value measurement disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities, and (b) how a reporting entity should provide disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements.  ASU No. 2010-06 is effective for the Company in the fourth quarter of 2010, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements. These disclosures will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2011.  Early adoption is permitted.
.
 
In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-13, Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which provides amendments that (a) update the criteria for separating consideration in multiple-deliverable arrangements, (b) establish a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable, and (c) replace the term "fair value" in the revenue allocation guidance with the term "selling price" to clarify that the allocation of revenue is based on entity-specific assumptions.  ASU No. 2009-13 eliminates the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration to deliverables, requires the use of the relative selling price method and requires that a vendor determine its best estimate of selling price in a manner consistent with that used to determine the price to sell the deliverable on a standalone basis.  ASU No. 2009-13 requires a vendor to significantly expand the disclosures related to multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements with the objective to provide information about the significant judgments made and changes to those judgments and how the application of the relative selling-price method affects the timing or amount of revenue recognition.  ASU No. 2009-13 is required to be adopted on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010.  Early adoption is permitted.
 
 
*  Amounts in 2009 represent primarily the provision for certain pre-petition advertising payments following the filing of bankruptcy of certain advertisers recorded in other accrued expenses and the write-off of trade receivables primarily from those same advertisers following the filing of bankruptcy.  Amounts in 2008 represent primarily the write-off of trade receivables from a cable system operator that had previously been fully reserved and the write-off of certain uncollectible advertising receivables.  Amounts in 2007 represent primarily the write-off of trade receivables from a cable system operator that had previously been fully reserved.


