FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20110526165710.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On May 24, 2011, Cablevision held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders at which (i) the holders of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock ("Class A shareholders") voted upon the election of Zachary W. Carter, Thomas V. Reifenheiser, John R. Ryan, Vincent Tese and Leonard Tow to Cablevision's Board of Directors ("Board") for one-year terms, (ii) the holders of Cablevision NY Group Class B common stock ("Class B shareholders") voted upon the election of Rand V. Araskog, Edward C. Atwood, Frank J. Biondi, Charles F. Dolan, James L. Dolan, Kathleen M. Dolan, Kristin A. Dolan, Patrick F. Dolan, Thomas C. Dolan, Deborah Dolan-Sweeney, Brian G. Sweeney and Marianne Dolan Weber to the Board for one-year terms, (iii) the Class A shareholders and the Class B shareholders, voting together as a single class, voted upon the ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as Cablevision's independent registered public accounting firm for the 2010 fiscal year, (iv) the Class A shareholders and the Class B shareholders, voting together as a single class, voted to approve the Cablevision Systems Corporation 2011 Cash Incentive Plan, (v) the Class A shareholders and the Class B shareholders, voting together as a single class, voted upon the proposal regarding an advisory vote on the compensation of executive officers, and (vi) the Class A shareholders and the Class B shareholders, voting together as a single class, voted upon the proposal regarding an advisory vote on the frequency of the advisory vote on the compensation of the executive officers.
The Class A shareholders elected all five director nominees on which they voted, the Class B shareholders elected all twelve director nominees on which they voted, the Class A shareholders and Class B shareholders approved the ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as Cablevision's independent registered public accounting firm for the 2010 fiscal year, the Class A shareholders and Class B shareholders approved the Cablevision Systems Corporation 2011 Cash Incentive Plan, the Class A shareholders and Class B shareholders approved the advisory vote on the compensation of executive officers, and the Class A shareholders and Class B shareholders approved the advisory vote for a three-year frequency for the advisory vote on the compensation of executive officers. The number of votes cast for, withheld or against and the number of abstentions and broker non-votes with respect to each matter voted upon, as applicable, are set forth below. In accordance with Cablevision's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Class A shareholders have one vote per share and Class B shareholders have ten votes per share with respect to matters on which both classes of shares vote together as a single class. Accordingly, the vote counts for the shareholder vote on the ratification of the appointment of our independent registered accounting firm for the 2011 fiscal year, the approval of the Cash Incentive Plan, the advisory vote on the compensation of executive officers, and the advisory vote on the three-year frequency for the advisory vote on the compensation of executive officers reflects ten votes with respect to each share of Cablevision NY Group Class B common stock.
Election of Directors by Class B shareholders:
 
Deborah Dolan-Sweeney Brian G. Sweeney Marianne Dolan-Weber
Each of the above nominees for election by the Class B shareholders received the same vote as indicated above.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 26, 2011
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 26, 2011


