FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20110810164923.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 9, 2011, the Registrants announced their financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.  A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
Earnings Press Release dated August 9, 2011.
99.1
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  August 10, 2011
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:  August 10, 2011
 
 
3
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
- Cablevision Systems Corporation (NYSE:CVC) today reported financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2011.  Historical financial results of AMC Networks Inc. are reflected in discontinued operations for all periods presented through June 30, 2011, the AMC Networks Distribution date.
Bethpage, N.Y., August 9, 2011
Second quarter consolidated net revenues grew 9.1% to $1.689 billion compared to the prior year period, consolidated adjusted operating cash flow (AOCF)grew 2.3% to $573.5 million and consolidated operating income decreased 5.0% to $312.4 million, all compared to the prior year period.  Second quarter 2011 results reflect the Bresnan properties acquired on December 14, 2010.  In addition, second quarter 2010 AOCF and operating income include a $23.0 million non-recurring favorable programming cost adjustment.  If both of these items were excluded, revenue, AOCF and operating income growth for the quarter compared to the prior year period would have been 1.5%, 0.3% and 3.1%, respectively.
1
Operating highlights for the second quarter 2011 include:
 
Cablevision President and CEO James L. Dolan commented:  "With the successful completion of the AMC Networks spin-off, Cablevision's consolidated results are now primarily driven by our telecommunications operations, which experienced solid revenue growth in the second quarter due largely to our Bresnan properties.  The company also continued to generate healthy free cash flow.  Moving forward, as we roll out new innovations like our iPad app and DVR Plus, Cablevision is more focused than ever on the strength of our telecommunications business and on creating additional value for our customers and shareholders," concluded Mr. Dolan.
 
 
 
Page 1 of 11
 
 
Telecommunications Services  Cable Television and Lightpath
Telecommunications Services includes Cable Television  Cablevisions video, high-speed data, and voice residential and commercial services offered over its cable infrastructure -- and its Optimum Lightpath branded commercial data and voice services.   Second quarter 2011 Telecommunications and Cable Television results below reflect the Bresnan properties acquired on December 14, 2010.
Telecommunications Services net revenues for the second quarter 2011 rose 9.8% to $1.578 billion, AOCF grew 1.8% to $625.4 million and operating income decreased 4.3% to $383.7 million, all compared to the prior year period.  Second quarter 2010 AOCF and operating income results included a non-recurring, favorable programming cost adjustment of $23.0 million.  Revenue, AOCF and operating income growth compared to the prior year period would have been 1.7%, 0.0% and 2.4%, respectively, if the 2010 programming cost adjustment and the 2011 Bresnan results were excluded.
The following table illustrates the change in the Telecommunications Services customer base during the second quarter of 2011:
Customer Data
 
 
Cable Television
Cable Television second quarter 2011 net revenues increased 9.8% to $1.506 billion, AOCF increased 1.1% to $592.7 million and operating income decreased 5.4% to $373.2 million, all compared to the prior year period.  The increase in revenue compared to the prior year period was due primarily to the addition of Bresnan in the results for the second quarter 2011.  Excluding Bresnan, revenue growth would have been 1.3%, compared to the prior year period.  Second quarter 2010 AOCF and operating income results included a favorable programming cost adjustment of $23.0 million.  Second quarter 2011 AOCF would have been down 0.9% and operating income would have grown 1.2%, both compared to the prior year period, if the 2010 programming cost adjustment and the second quarter 2011 Bresnan results were excluded.
Optimum Lightpath
For second quarter 2011, Lightpath net revenues increased 9.0% to $77.1 million, AOCF increased 17.0% to $32.7 million and operating income increased 73.5% to $10.6 million, each as compared to the prior year period.  The improved results were driven primarily by a 22.9% increase in revenue from Ethernet services, offset in part by higher operating expenses to support the increase in Ethernet installations.
 
 
Page 2 of 11
 
 
Other
Other primarily consists of Newsday, News 12 Networks, MSG Varsity, Clearview Cinemas, Cablevision Media Sales Corporation (previously known as Rainbow Advertising Sales Corporation (RASCO)) and unallocated corporate general and administrative costs.
Second quarter 2011 net revenues were essentially flat (down 0.6%) at $116.4 million, AOCF deficit improved 2.9% to a deficit of $51.9 million and operating loss was essentially flat (up 0.7%) at a loss of $71.3 million all compared to the prior year period.  Revenue growth at News 12, Clearview Cinemas and Cablevision Media Sales offset the continued decline of advertising revenues at Newsday.  The AOCF deficit improved as lower corporate costs more than offset the impact to AOCF of the revenue decline at Newsday discussed above.
Other Matters
AMC NETWORKS DISTRIBUTION
On June 30, 2011, Cablevision distributed to its stockholders all of the outstanding common stock of AMC Networks Inc. ("AMC Networks" formerly Rainbow Media Holdings LLC), a company which consists principally of national programming networks, including AMC, WE tv, IFC and Sundance Channel, previously owned and operated by the Company's Rainbow segment (the "AMC Networks Distribution").  The AMC Networks Distribution took the form of a distribution by Cablevision of one share of AMC Networks Class A Common Stock for every four shares of Cablevision NY Group ("CNYG") Class A Common Stock held of record on June 16, 2011 (the "AMC Networks Distribution Record Date") and one share of AMC Networks Class B Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class B Common Stock held of record on the AMC Networks Distribution Record Date.
As a result of the AMC Networks Distribution, the Company no longer consolidates the financial results of AMC Networks for the purpose of its own financial reporting and the historical financial results of AMC Networks have been reflected in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the AMC Networks Distribution date.
RETURN OF CAPITAL
During the second quarter of 2011, Cablevision repurchased approximately 4.2 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $143.9 million.
On August 5, 2011, the Board of Directors of Cablevision declared a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share on each outstanding share of both its Cablevision NY Group Class A Stock and its Cablevision NY Group Class B Stock.  This quarterly dividend is payable on September 9, 2011 to shareholders of record at the close of business on August 19, 2011.
 
 
Page 3 of 11
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We define adjusted operating cash flow (AOCF), which is a non-GAAP financial measure, as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), excluding share-based compensation expense or benefit and restructuring charges or credits.  Because it is based upon operating income (loss), AOCF also excludes interest expense (including cash interest expense) and other non-operating income and expense items.  We believe that the exclusion of share-based compensation expense or benefit allows investors to better track the performance of the various operating units of our business without regard to the distortive effects of fluctuating stock prices in the case of stock appreciation rights and, in the case of restricted shares and stock options, the settlement of an obligation that is not expected to be made in cash.
We present AOCF as a measure of our ability to service our debt and make continuing investments, including in our capital infrastructure.  We believe AOCF is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of our business segments and the company on a consolidated basis.  AOCF and similar measures with similar titles are common performance measures used by investors, analysts and peers to compare performance in our industry.  Internally, we use net revenues and AOCF measures as the most important indicators of our business performance, and evaluate managements effectiveness with specific reference to these indicators.  AOCF should be viewed as a supplement to and not a substitute for operating income (loss), net income (loss), cash flows from operating activities, and other measures of performance and/or liquidity presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP").  Since AOCF is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP, this measure may not be comparable to similar measures with similar titles used by other companies.  For a reconciliation of AOCF to operating income (loss), please see page 5 of this release.
We define Consolidated Free Cash Flow from Continuing Operations, (Free Cash Flow), which is a non-GAAP financial measure, as net cash from operating activities (continuing operations) less capital expenditures (continuing operations), both of which are reported in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  Net cash from operating activities excludes net cash from operating activities of our discontinued operations.  We believe the most comparable GAAP financial measure of our liquidity is net cash from operating activities.  We believe that Free Cash Flow is useful as an indicator of our overall liquidity, as the amount of Free Cash Flow generated in any period is representative of cash that is available for debt repayment and other discretionary and non-discretionary cash uses.  It is also one of several indicators of our ability to make investments and/or return capital to our shareholders. We also believe that Free Cash Flow is one of several benchmarks used by analysts and investors who follow our industry for comparison of our liquidity with other companies in our industry, although our measure of Free Cash Flow may not be directly comparableto similar measures reported by other companies.
 
COMPANY DESCRIPTION
Cablevision Systems Corporation is one of the nation's leading media and telecommunications companies. In addition to delivering its Optimum-branded cable, Internet, and voice offerings throughout the New York area, the company owns and operates cable systems serving homes in four Western states.  Cablevisions local media properties include News 12 Networks, MSG Varsity and Newsday Media Group.  Cablevision also owns and operates Clearview Cinemas.  Additional information about Cablevision is available on the Web at .
www.cablevision.com
This earnings release may contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including financial community and rating agency perceptions of the company and its business, operations, financial condition and the industries in which it operates and the factors described in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained therein.  The company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained herein.
Cablevisions Web site:  
www.cablevision.com
The conference call will be Webcast live today at 10:00 a.m. ET
Conference call dial-in number is (888) 694-4641/ Conference ID Number 88555713
Conference call replay number (855) 859-2056/ Conference ID Number 88555713 until August 16, 2011
 
 
Page 4 of 11
 
 
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11
 
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
The following is a description of the adjustments to operating income (loss) in arriving at adjusted operating cash flow included in this earnings release:
 
Page 6 of 11
 
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
REVENUES, NET
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 11
 
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
ADJUSTED OPERATING CASH FLOW AND OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 11
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 11
 
 
CAPITALIZATION
LEVERAGE
 
Page 10 of 11
 
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11


