FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20110331164124.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Employment Agreement
On March 29, 2011, Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") entered into a new employment agreement (the "Employment Agreement") with Gregg G. Seibert, its Executive Vice President. The Employment Agreement replaces Mr. Seibert's prior employment agreement that was set to expire on January 20, 2012, and the new agreement will terminate on December 31, 2016 (the "Scheduled Expiration Date").
The Employment Agreement provides for a minimum annual base salary of $1,500,000, subject to annual review and potential increase in the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Cablevision (the "Committee"). Mr. Seibert is also eligible to participate in Cablevision's discretionary annual bonus program with an annual target bonus opportunity equal to 150% of salary. The decision of whether or not to pay a bonus, and the amount of that bonus, if any, is made by the Committee in its sole discretion. Mr. Seibert is also eligible to participate in such equity and other long-term incentive programs that are made available to similarly situated executives at Cablevision. For example, in calendar year 2011, Mr. Seibert will be entitled to receive one or more long-term cash and/or equity awards with an aggregate target value of $5,000,000, as determined by the Committee in its discretion. Both types of awards are expected to be subject to three year cliff vesting. Any such awards would be subject to actual grant to Mr. Seibert by the Committee, would be pursuant to the applicable plan document and would be subject to terms and conditions established by the Committee at its sole discretion. Mr. Seibert remains eligible for Cablevision's standard benefit programs subject to meeting the relevant eligibility requirements, payment of required premiums and the terms of the plans.
If, prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date, Mr. Seibert's employment with Cablevision is terminated (i) by Cablevision (other than for Cause (as defined in the Employment Agreement)) or (ii) by Mr. Seibert for Good Reason (as defined in the Employment Agreement) (other than if Cause then exists) then, subject to Mr. Seibert's execution of a separation agreement (including, without limitation, non-compete (limited to one year), non-disparagement, non-solicitation, confidentiality, and further cooperation obligations and restrictions on Mr. Seibert as well as a general release by Mr. Seibert of Cablevision and its affiliates) (a "Separation Agreement"), Cablevision will provide Mr. Seibert with the following benefits and rights:
 
If Mr. Seibert ceases to be an employee of Cablevision prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date as a result of his death or physical or mental disability and at the time of any such termination, Cause does not exist, then, subject to (except in the case of his death) his execution of the Separation Agreement, Mr. Seibert or his estate or beneficiary, as the case may be, will be provided with the benefits and rights set forth in (b), (d) and (e) in the preceding paragraph, and each of his outstanding long-term cash awards will immediately vest in full and will be payable on the 90th day after the termination of employment.
If after the Scheduled Expiration Date, Mr. Seibert's employment with Cablevision is terminated for any reason by him on at least twelve months prior written notice to Cablevision and at the time of any such termination, Cause does not exist, then, subject to his execution of the Separation Agreement, Mr. Seibert will be provided with the benefits and rights set forth above in (b) through (e) of the next preceding paragraph.
Upon the termination of Mr. Seibert's employment with Cablevision, except as otherwise specifically provided in the Employment Agreement, any outstanding equity or cash incentive awards will be treated in accordance with their terms.
The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Employment Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference.
 
Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement
Also on March 29, 2011, Mr. Seibert entered into an aircraft time sharing agreement with a subsidiary company of Cablevision that holds Cablevision's interest in the aircraft, pursuant to which Mr. Seibert may lease the aircraft from such subsidiary company for personal use. Mr. Seibert will pay for identified actual expenses of each flight conducted under the aircraft time sharing agreement in an amount not to exceed the maximum amount legally payable under Federal Aviation Administration rules.
A copy of the aircraft time sharing agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference.
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 31, 2011
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 31, 2011

Exhibit 10.1
March 29, 2011
Mr. Gregg G. Seibert Cablevision Systems Corporation 1111 Stewart Avenue Bethpage, NY 11714
Dear Gregg:
This letter agreement (the "Agreement"), effective on the date hereof, will confirm the terms of your continued employment by Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "Company").
1. Your title continues to be Executive Vice President and you will report to James Dolan (or if James Dolan is no longer the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, to the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company). You agree to continue to devote your business time and attention to the business and affairs of the Company and to perform your duties in a diligent, competent, professional and skillful manner and in accordance with applicable law.
2. Your base salary will be $1,500,000 annually, paid bi-weekly, subject to annual review and potential increase by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Compensation Committee") in its discretion.
3. You will also continue to participate in our discretionary annual bonus program with an annual target bonus opportunity equal to 150% of your annual base salary. Bonus payments are based on actual salary dollars paid during the year and depend on a number of factors including Company, unit and individual performance. However, the decision of whether or not to pay a bonus, and the amount of that bonus, if any, is made by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion. Bonuses are typically paid early in the subsequent calendar year. Except as otherwise provided herein, in order to receive a bonus, you must be employed by the Company at the time bonuses are being paid.
4. You will also continue to be eligible, subject to your continued employment by the Company and actual grant by the Compensation Committee, to participate in such equity and other long-term incentive programs that are made available in the future to similarly situated executives at the Company. In calendar year 2011, for example, you will be entitled to receive one or more long-term cash and/or equity awards with an aggregate target value of $5,000,000, all as determined by the Compensation Committee in its discretion. Both types of awards are expected to be subject to three year cliff vesting. Any such awards, in addition to being subject to actual grant by the Compensation Committee, would be pursuant to the applicable plan document and would be subject to any terms and conditions established by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion that would be detailed in separate agreements you would receive after any award is actually made.
 
Mr. Gregg G. Seibert Page 2
5. With respect to the shares of Class A Common Stock of the Company which you purchased pursuant to that certain letter agreement dated as of January 12, 2009 (the "Original Agreement") by and between you and the Company (the "Required Shares"), you agree to continue to own the Required Shares (or such other number that may result from any stock split, reverse stock split or similar action, as determined by the Company) and not to hedge, incur any lien or margin on or otherwise transfer, directly or indirectly, any of the Required Shares or any of the economic risks or benefits of ownership of such shares, until the earlier of (i) January 20, 2014 and (ii) the date you are no longer an employee of the Company. You agree to provide the Company with verification of such continued ownership of the Required Shares from time to time upon request. The Company's sole remedy, however, for any breach by you of the obligations of this paragraph shall be the immediate automatic forfeiture of the stock options granted to you by the Compensation Committee on January 20, 2009 to the extent outstanding and not yet vested at the time of such breach ("Options Forfeiture").
6. You will also continue to be eligible to participate in our standard benefits program, subject to meeting the relevant eligibility requirements, payment of the required premiums, and the terms of the plans themselves. We currently offer medical, dental, vision, life, and accidental death and dismemberment insurance; short- and long-term disability insurance; a savings and retirement program; and ten paid holidays. You will also continue to be eligible for four (4) weeks of vacation to be accrued and used in accordance with Company policy.
7. If your employment with the Company is terminated prior to December 31, 2016 (the "Scheduled Expiration Date") (i) by the Company (other than for "Cause"); or (ii) by you for "Good Reason" (other than if "Cause" then exists); then, subject to your execution and delivery, within 60 days after the date of termination of your employment, and non-revocation (within any applicable revocation period) of the Separation Agreement (as defined below), the Company will provide you with the following:
 
Mr. Gregg G. Seibert Page 3
 
Mr. Gregg G. Seibert Page 4
If you die after a termination of your employment that is subject to this Paragraph 7, your estate or beneficiaries will be provided with any remaining benefits and rights under this Paragraph 7.
8. If after the Scheduled Expiration Date, your employment with the Company is terminated by you for any reason on at least 12 months prior written notice by you to the Company of your intention to so terminate, such termination to be effective no earlier than the first day after the Scheduled Expiration Date, and at the time of such termination Cause does not exist, then, subject to your execution and delivery, within 60 days after the date of termination of your employment, and non-revocation (within any applicable revocation period) of the Separation Agreement, you will be provided with the benefits and rights set forth in Paragraphs 7(b) through (e) above.
9. If you cease to be an employee of the Company prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date as a result of your death or your physical or mental disability, and at such time Cause does not exist then, subject (other than in the case of death) to your execution and delivery, within 60 days after the date of termination of your employment, and non-revocation (within any applicable revocation period) of the Separation Agreement, you or your estate or beneficiary shall be provided with the benefits and rights set forth in Paragraphs 7(b), (d) and (e) above, and each of your outstanding long-term cash awards granted under the plans of the Company shall immediately vest in full, whether or not subject to performance criteria and shall be payable on the 90 day after the termination of your employment; provided, that (A) if any such award is subject to any performance criteria, then (i) if the measurement period for such performance criteria has not yet been fully completed, then the payment amount shall be at the target amount for such award and (ii) if the measurement period for such performance criteria has already been fully completed, then the payment of such award shall be at the same time and to the extent that other similarly situated executives receive payment as determined by the Compensation Committee (subject to satisfaction of the applicable performance criteria); and (B) to the extent that (i) any such awards constitute "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and any regulations and guidelines promulgated thereunder (collectively, "Section 409A"); (ii) such physical or mental disability does not constitute a "disability" under Section 409A; and (iii) accelerated payout is not permitted by Section 409A, such awards shall be payable to you at the same time as such awards are paid to other active employees of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if provided for in the applicable stock option, restricted stock or restricted stock unit award agreement, your stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards will vest in full (and shares subject to restricted stock units will be distributed) at the time of your death.
th
 
Mr. Gregg G. Seibert Page 5
10. For purposes hereof, "Separation Agreement" shall mean the Company's standard severance agreement (modified to reflect the terms of this Agreement) which will include, without limitation, the provisions set forth in Annex A hereto regarding non-compete (limited to one year), non-disparagement, non-solicitation, confidentiality and further cooperation obligations and restrictions on you (with Company reimbursement of your associated expenses in connection with any required post-employment cooperation) as well as a general release by you of the Company and its affiliates (and their respective directors and officers).
11. Except as otherwise set forth in Paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 hereof, in connection with any termination of your employment, your then outstanding equity and cash incentive awards shall be treated in accordance with their terms and, other than as provided in this Agreement, you shall not be eligible for severance benefits under any other plan, program or policy of the Company.
12. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means your (i) commission of an act of fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, willful misconduct, gross negligence or breach of fiduciary duty against the Company or an affiliate thereof, or (ii) commission of any act or omission that results in a conviction, plea of no contest, plea of , or imposition of unadjudicated probation for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
Cause
nolo contendere
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means that (1) without your written consent, (A) your base salary or annual target bonus (as each may be increased from time to time in the Company's sole discretion) is reduced, (B) your title (as in effect from time to time) is diminished, (C) you report directly to someone other than James Dolan (or if James Dolan is no longer the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, to someone other than the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company), (D) the Company requires that your principal office be located outside of Nassau County or the Borough of Manhattan, (E) the Company materially breaches its obligations to you under this Agreement; or (F) your responsibilities as in effect immediately after the date hereof, taken together with any additional material responsibilities which are hereafter assigned to you and which are intended to continue at least through the Scheduled Expiration Date, are thereafter materially diminished, (2) you have given the Company written notice, referring specifically to this Agreement and definition, that you do not consent to such action, (3) the Company has not corrected such action within 15 days of receiving such notice, (4) you voluntarily terminate your employment with the Company within 90 days following the happening of the action described in subsection (1) above.
Good Reason
and
13. This Agreement does not constitute a guarantee of employment for any definite period. Your employment is at will and may be terminated by you or the Company at any time, with or without notice or reason.
14. The Company may withhold from any payment due to you any taxes required to be withheld under any law, rule or regulation. If any payment otherwise due to you hereunder would result in the imposition of the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, the
 
Mr. Gregg G. Seibert Page 6
Company will instead pay you either (i) such amount or (ii) the maximum amount that could be paid to you without the imposition of the excise tax, depending on whichever amount results in your receiving the greater amount of after-tax proceeds. In the event that the payments and benefits payable to you would be reduced as provided in the previous sentence, then such reduction will be determined in a manner which has the least economic cost to you and, to the extent the economic cost is equivalent, such payments or benefits will be reduced in the inverse order of when the payments or benefits would have been made to you (later payments will be reduced first) until the reduction specified is achieved.
i.e.
15. It is intended that this Agreement will comply with Section 409A of the Code and Section 409A to the extent the Agreement is subject thereto, and the Agreement shall be interpreted on a basis consistent with such intent. If and to the extent that any payment or benefit under this Agreement, or any plan, award or arrangement of the Company or its affiliates, constitutes "non-qualified deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A and is payable to you by reason of your termination of employment, then (a) such payment or benefit shall be made or provided to you only upon a "separation from service" as defined for purposes of Section 409A under applicable regulations and (b) if you are a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A as determined by the Company), such payment or benefit shall not be made or provided before the date that is six months after the date of your separation from service (or your earlier death). Any amount not paid or benefit not provided in respect of the six month period specified in the preceding sentence will be paid to you, together with interest on such delayed amount at a rate equal to the average of the one-year LIBOR fixed rate equivalent for the ten business days prior to the date of your employment termination, in a lump sum or provided to you as soon as practicable after the expiration of such six month period. Any such payment or benefit shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of Section 409A to the extent Section 409A applies to such payments.
16. To the extent you are entitled to any expense reimbursement from the Company that is subject to Section 409A, (i) the amount of any such expenses eligible for reimbursement in one calendar year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other taxable year (except under any lifetime limit applicable to expenses for medical care), (ii) in no event shall any such expense be reimbursed after the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which you incurred such expense, and (iii) in no event shall any right to reimbursement be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
17. The Company will not take any action, or omit to take any action, that would expose any payment or benefit to you to the additional tax of Section 409A, unless (i) the Company is obligated to take the action under an agreement, plan or arrangement to which you are a party, (ii) you request the action, (iii) the Company advises you in writing that the action may result in the imposition of the additional tax and (iv) you subsequently request the action in a writing that acknowledges you will be responsible for any effect of the action under Section 409A. The
 
Mr. Gregg G. Seibert Page 7
Company will hold you harmless for any action it may take or omission in violation of this Paragraph 17, including any attorney's fees you may incur in enforcing your rights.
18. It is our intention that the benefits and rights to which you could become entitled in connection with termination of employment comply with Section 409A. If you or the Company believes, at any time, that any of such benefit or right does not comply, it will promptly advise the other and will negotiate reasonably and in good faith to amend the terms of such arrangement such that it complies (with the most limited possible economic effect on you and on the Company).
19. This Agreement is personal to you and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by you. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by your legal representatives. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
20.
To the extent permitted by law, you and the Company waive any and all rights to a jury trial with respect to any matter relating to this Agreement (including the covenants set forth in Annex A hereof). This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within that State.
21. Both the Company and you hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the federal courts of the United States of America in each case located in the City of New York, Borough of Manhattan, solely in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement, and each party hereby waives, and agrees not to assert, as a defense that either party, as appropriate, is not subject thereto or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate. You and the Company each agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in any manner as may be permitted by law shall be valid and sufficient service thereof.
22. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement. It is the parties' intention that this Agreement not be construed more strictly with regard to you or the Company.
23. You agree to keep this Agreement and its terms strictly confidential (unless it is made public by the Company); that (1) you are authorized to make any disclosure required of you by any federal, state or local laws or judicial proceedings, after providing the Company with prior written notice and an opportunity to respond to such disclosure (unless such notice is prohibited by law) and (2) you are authorized to disclose this Agreement and its terms to your legal,
provided
 
Mr. Gregg G. Seibert Page 8
financial and tax advisors so long as such advisors agree to maintain the confidentiality of this Agreement.
24. This Agreement reflects the entire understanding and agreement of you and the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior understandings or agreements relating thereto, including the Original Agreement which shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect upon the execution hereof: provided, however, that you shall continue to be entitled to any compensation, payments or other benefits to which you became entitled prior to the date hereof pursuant to the Original Agreement which have not been paid or delivered to you as of the date hereof (without duplication of any compensation, payment or other benefit payable to you pursuant to this Agreement).
25. This Agreement will automatically terminate, and be of no further force or effect, on December 31, 2016; provided, however, that the provisions of Paragraphs 7 through 11, 14 through 26 and Annex A shall survive the termination of the Agreement and remain binding on you and the Company in accordance with their terms.
26. The Company shall promptly pay or reimburse you for reasonable legal fees incurred by you in connection with the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement, up to a maximum amount of $25,000.
 
Mr. Gregg G. Seibert Page 9
Accepted and Agreed:
 
Mr. Gregg G. Seibert Page 10
You agree to comply with the following covenants in addition to those set forth in the Agreement.
1. CONFIDENTIALITY
You agree to retain in strict confidence and not divulge, disseminate, copy or disclose to any third party any Confidential Information, other than for legitimate business purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. As used herein, "Confidential Information" means any non-public information that is material or of a confidential, proprietary, commercially sensitive or personal nature of, or regarding, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any current or former director, officer or member of senior management of any of the foregoing (collectively "Covered Parties"). The term Confidential Information includes information in written, digital, oral or any other format and includes, but is not limited to (i) information designated or treated as confidential; (ii) budgets, plans, forecasts or other financial or accounting data; (iii) subscriber, customer, fan, vendor or shareholder lists or data; (iv) technical or strategic information regarding the Covered Parties', cable, data, telephone, programming, advertising, film production, motion picture exhibition, newspaper, multichannel video data and distribution services or other businesses; (v) advertising, business, sales or marketing tactics and strategies; (vi) policies, practices, procedures or techniques; (vii) trade secrets or other intellectual property; (viii) information, theories or strategies relating to litigation, arbitration, mediation, investigations or matters relating to governmental authorities; (ix) terms of agreements with third parties and third party trade secrets; (x) information regarding employees, agents, consultants, advisors or representatives, including their compensation or other human resources policies and procedures; and (xi) any other information the disclosure of which may have an adverse effect on the Covered Parties' business reputation, operations or competitive position, reputation or standing in the community.
If disclosed, Confidential Information or Other Information could have an adverse effect on the Company's standing in the community, its business reputation, operations or competitive position or the standing, reputation, operations or competitive position of any of its affiliates (other than MSG and its subsidiaries) subsidiaries, officers, directors, employees, teams, players, coaches, consultants or agents or any of the Covered Parties.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of this section, other than with respect to subscriber information, shall not apply to Confidential Information which is:
a) already in the public domain;
 
Mr. Gregg G. Seibert Page 11
b) disclosed to you by a third party with the right to disclose it in good faith; or
c) specifically exempted in writing by the Company from the applicability of this Agreement.
Notwithstanding anything elsewhere in this Agreement, you are authorized to make any disclosure required of you by any federal, state and local laws or judicial, arbitral or governmental agency proceedings, after providing the Company with prior written notice and an opportunity to respond prior to such disclosure. In addition, this Agreement in no way restricts or prevents you from providing truthful testimony concerning the Company to judicial, administrative, regulatory or other governmental authorities.
2. NON-COMPETE
You acknowledge that due to your executive position in the Company and your knowledge of the Company's confidential and proprietary information, your employment or affiliation with certain entities would be detrimental to the Company. You agree that, without the prior written consent of the Company, you will not represent, become employed by, consult to, advise in any manner or have any material interest in any business directly or indirectly in any Competitive Entity (as defined below). A "Competitive Entity" shall mean (1) any person or entity that competes with any of the Company's or its affiliates cable television, telephone, on-line data, on-line content, or newspaper businesses or that competes with any of the Company's or its affiliates' programming businesses, nationally or regionally or that competes with any other business of the Company or its affiliates that produced greater than 10% of the Company's revenues in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which the determination is made; or (2) any trade or professional association representing any of the companies covered by this paragraph, other than the National Cable Television Association and any state cable television association. For purposes of this paragraph 2, an affiliate of the Company shall mean an entity that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or under common control with, the Company. An entity shall be deemed to compete with the on-line content business of the Company, or any of its affiliates only if the entity directly competes against the on-line content business of the Company, or its affiliate; provided, however, that an entity's business shall not be deemed to directly compete merely by the fact that the business sells ads on-line, unless the business specifically targets such ads to the same customers or potential customers as being targeted by the on-line content business of the Company, its subsidiary or affiliate. Ownership of not more than 1% of the outstanding stock of any publicly traded company shall not be a violation of this paragraph. This agreement not to compete will expire upon the one year anniversary of the date of your termination of employment with the Company.
 
Mr. Gregg G. Seibert Page 12
3. ADDITIONAL UNDERSTANDINGS
You agree, for yourself and others acting on your behalf, that you (and they) have not disparaged and will not disparage, make negative statements about or act in any manner which is intended to or does damage to the good will of, or the business or personal reputations of the Company or any of its incumbent or former officers, directors, agents, consultants, employees, successors and assigns or any of the Covered Parties.
Unless the Company determines in good faith that you have committed any malfeasance during your employment by the Company, the Company agrees that its corporate officers and directors, employees in its public relations department or third party public relations representatives retained by the Company will not disparage you or make negative statements in the press or other media which are damaging to your business or personal reputation. In the event that the Company so disparages you or makes such negative statements, then notwithstanding the "Additional Understandings" provision to the contrary, you may make a proportional response thereto.
In addition, you agree that the Company is the owner of all rights, title and interest in and to all documents, tapes, videos, designs, plans, formulas, models, processes, computer programs, inventions (whether patentable or not), schematics, music, lyrics and other technical, business, financial, advertising, sales, marketing, customer or product development plans, forecasts, strategies, information and materials (in any medium whatsoever) developed or prepared by you or with your cooperation during the course of your employment by the Company (the "Materials"). The Company will have the sole and exclusive authority to use the Materials in any manner that it deems appropriate, in perpetuity, without additional payment to you.
4. FURTHER COOPERATION
Following the date of termination of your employment with the Company (the "Expiration Date"), you will no longer provide any regular services to the Company or represent yourself as a Company agent. If, however, the Company so requests, you agree to cooperate fully with the Company in connection with any matter with which you were involved prior to the Expiration Date, or in any litigation or administrative proceedings or appeals (including any preparation therefore) where the Company believes that your personal knowledge, attendance and participation could be beneficial to the Company. This cooperation includes, without limitation, participation on behalf of the Company in any litigation or administrative proceeding brought by any former or existing Company employees, teams, players, coaches, guests, representatives, agents or vendors. The Company will pay you for your services rendered under this provision at the rate of $6,800 per day for each day or part thereof, within 30 days of approved invoice therefor.
The Company will provide you with reasonable notice in connection with any cooperation it requires in accordance with this section and will take reasonable steps to schedule your cooperation in any such matters so as not to materially interfere with your other professional and
 
Mr. Gregg G. Seibert Page 13
personal commitments. The Company will reimburse you for any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses you reasonably incur in connection with the cooperation you provide hereunder as soon as practicable after you present appropriate documentation evidencing such expenses. You agree to provide the Company with an estimate of such expense before you incur the same.
5. NON-HIRE OR SOLICIT
You agree not to hire, seek to hire, or cause any person or entity to hire or seek to hire (without the prior written consent of the Company), directly or indirectly (whether for your own interest or any other person or entity's interest) any then current employee of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (other than MSG and its subsidiaries), until the first anniversary of the date of your termination of employment with the Company. This restriction does not apply to any employee who was discharged by the Company. In addition, this restriction will not prevent you from providing references.
6. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
You acknowledge that the restrictions contained in this Annex A, in light of the nature of the Company's business and your position and responsibilities, are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company. You acknowledge that the Company has no adequate remedy at law and would be irreparably harmed if you breach or threaten to breach the provisions of this Annex A, and therefore agree that the Company shall be entitled to injunctive relief, to prevent any breach or threatened breach of any of those provisions and to specific performance of the terms of each of such provisions in addition to any other legal or equitable remedy it may have. You further agree that you will not, in any equity proceeding relating to the enforcement of the provisions of this Annex A, raise the defense that the Company has an adequate remedy at law. Nothing in this Annex A shall be construed as prohibiting the Company from pursuing any other remedies at law or in equity that it may have or any other rights that it may have under any other agreement. If it is determined that any of the provisions of this Annex A or any part thereof, is unenforceable because of the duration or scope (geographic or otherwise) of such provision, it is the intention of the parties that the duration or scope of such provision, as the case may be, shall be reduced so that such provision becomes enforceable and, in its reduced form, such provision shall then be enforceable and shall be enforced.
7. SURVIVAL
The provisions of this Annex A shall survive any termination of your employment by the Company or the expiration of the Agreement.

Exhibit 10.2
          THIS TIME SHARING AGREEMENT is entered into effective as of the 29th day of March, 2011, by and between CSC TRANSPORT IV, INC. ("CSC"), a Delaware corporation with a place of business at 8000 Republic Airport Hangar 5, Farmingdale, New York 11735 ("Lessor"), and GREGG G. SEIBERT, with a mailing address at 1111 Stewart Avenue, Bethpage, NY 11714 ("Lessee").
          WHEREAS, CSC is the lessee and the operator of a Gulfstream Aerospace G-V aircraft, manufacturer's serial number 639, United States registration N501CV (the "Aircraft"); and
          WHEREAS, Lessor employs a fully-qualified and credentialed flight crew to operate the Aircraft; and
          WHEREAS, Lessor has agreed to lease the Aircraft, with flight crew, to Lessee on a "time sharing" basis as defined in Section 91.501(c)(1) of the Federal Aviation Regulations ("FAR") upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein;
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises, and the covenants and agreements set forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are acknowledged, Lessor and Lessee, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
          1. . Lessor agrees to lease the Aircraft to Lessee pursuant to the provisions of FAR Section 91.501(b)(6) and Section 91.501(c)(1) and this Agreement, and to provide a fully-qualified and credentialed flight crew for all flights to be conducted hereunder during the Term (as defined in Section 13) hereof. The parties acknowledge and agree that this Agreement did not result in any way from any direct or indirect advertising, holding out or soliciting on the part of Lessor or any person purportedly acting on behalf of Lessor. Lessor and Lessee intend that the lease of the Aircraft effected by this Agreement shall be treated as a "wet lease" pursuant to which Lessor provides transportation services to Lessee in accordance with FAR Section 91.501(b)(6) and Section 91.501(c)(1).
Lease of Aircraft
          2. . Lessee shall pay Lessor the following actual expenses of each flight conducted under this Agreement (i.e. non-business flights for which reimbursement is required in accordance with Lessor's policies), not to exceed the maximum amount legally payable for such flight under FAR Section 91.501(d)(1)-(10):
Payment for Use of Aircraft
               (a) fuel, oil, lubricants and other additives;
 
               (b) travel expenses of crew, including food, lodging and ground transportation;
               (c) hangar and tie-down costs away from the Aircraft's base of operation;
               (d) additional insurance obtained for the specific flight at the request of Lessee;
               (e) landing fees, airport taxes and similar assessments;
               (f) customs, foreign permit and similar fees directly related to the flight;
               (g) in-flight food and beverages;
               (h) in-flight telecommunication expenses;
               (i) passenger ground transportation; and
               (j) flight planning and weather contract services.
          3. . Lessor and Lessee intend and agree that on all flights conducted under this Agreement, Lessor shall have complete and exclusive operational control over the Aircraft, its flight crews and maintenance, and complete and exclusive possession, command and control of the Aircraft. Lessor shall have complete and exclusive responsibility for scheduling, dispatching and flight following of the Aircraft on all flights conducted under this Agreement, which responsibility includes the sole and exclusive right over initiating, conducting and terminating such flights. Lessee shall have no responsibility for scheduling, dispatching or flight following on any flight conducted under this Agreement, nor any right over initiating, conducting or terminating any such flight. Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed so as to convey to Lessee any operational control over, or possession, command and control of, the Aircraft, all of which are expressly retained by Lessor.
Operational Control of Aircraft
          4. .
Scheduling
          (a) Lessee will provide Lessor with requests for flight time and proposed flight schedules as far in advance of any given flight as possible. Lessee or the designated authorized representative(s) of Lessee shall submit scheduling requests under this Agreement to the designated authorized representative(s) of Lessor. Requests for flight time shall be in such form (whether oral or written) mutually convenient to, and agreed upon by, the parties. In
 
addition to proposed schedules and flight times, Lessee shall upon request provide Lessor with the following information for each proposed flight prior to scheduled departure: (i) proposed departure point; (ii) destination; (iii) date and time of flight; (iv) the number of anticipated passengers; (v) the nature and extent of luggage to be carried; (vi) the date and time of a return flight, if any; and (vii) any other pertinent information concerning the proposed flight that Lessor or the flight crew may request.
          (b) Subject to Aircraft and crew availability and to any usage limitations established by Lessor, Lessor shall use its good faith efforts, consistent with Lessor's approved policies, in order to accommodate the needs of Lessee, to avoid conflicts in scheduling, and to enable Lessee to enjoy the benefits of this Agreement; however, Lessee acknowledges and agrees that notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, (i) Lessor shall have sole and exclusive final authority over the scheduling of the Aircraft; and (ii) the needs of Lessor for the Aircraft shall take precedence over Lessee's rights and Lessor's obligations under this Agreement.
          (c) Although every good faith effort shall be made to avoid its occurrence, any flight scheduled under this Agreement is subject to cancellation by either party without incurring liability to the other party. In the event that cancellation is necessary, the canceling party shall provide the maximum notice practicable.
          5. . Lessor shall pay all expenses relating to the operation of the Aircraft under this Agreement (in accordance with Section 2 hereof) on a monthly basis. As soon as possible after the end of each monthly period during the Term, Lessor shall provide to Lessee an invoice showing all use of the Aircraft by Lessee under this Agreement during that month and a complete accounting detailing all amounts payable by Lessee pursuant to Section 2 for that month, including such detail supporting all expenses paid or incurred by Lessor for which reimbursement is sought as Lessee may reasonably request. Lessee shall pay all amounts due to Lessor under this Section 5 not later than 30 days after receipt of the invoice therefor.
Billing
          6. . Lessor shall be solely responsible for securing maintenance, preventive maintenance and inspections of the Aircraft (utilizing an inspection program listed in FAR Section 91.409(f)), and shall take such requirements into account in scheduling the Aircraft hereunder.
Maintenance of Aircraft
          7. .
Flight Crew
          (a) Lessor shall employ or engage and pay all salaries, benefits and/or compensation for a fully-qualified flight crew with appropriate credentials to conduct each flight undertaken under this Agreement. Lessor may use temporary flight crewmembers for a flight under this Agreement only if any such temporary crewmember is FlightSafety (or SimuFlite) trained, is current on the Aircraft and satisfies all of the requirements and conditions under the insurance coverage for the Aircraft. All flight crewmembers shall be included on any insurance policies that Lessor is required to maintain hereunder.
 
          (b) The qualified flight crew provided by Lessor shall exercise all of its duties and responsibilities with regard to the safety of each flight conducted hereunder in accordance with applicable FAR's. The Aircraft shall be operated under the standards and policies established by Lessor. Final authority to initiate or terminate each flight, and otherwise to decide all matters relating to the safety of any given flight or requested flight, shall rest with the pilot-in-command of that flight. The flight crew may, in its sole discretion, terminate any flight, refuse to commence any flight, or take any other action that, in the judgment of the pilot-in-command, is necessitated by considerations of safety. No such termination or refusal to commence by the pilot-in-command shall create or support any liability for loss, injury, damage or delay in favor of Lessee or any other person. Lessor shall not be liable to Lessee or any other person for loss, injury or damage occasioned by the delay or failure to furnish the Aircraft and flight crew pursuant to this Agreement for any reason.
          8. .
Insurance
          (a) At all times during the Term of this Agreement, Lessor shall maintain at its sole cost and expense (i) comprehensive aircraft and liability insurance against bodily injury and property damage claims, including, without limitation, contractual liability, premises damage, personal property liability, personal injury liability, death and property damage liability, public and passenger legal liability coverage, in an amount not less than $100,000,000 for each single occurrence and (ii) hull insurance for the full replacement cost of the aircraft.
          (b) Any policies of aircraft and liability insurance carried in accordance with this Section 8 and any policies taken out in substitution or replacement of any such policies (i) shall name Lessee and his employees, agents, licensees, servants and guests as additional insured; (ii) shall provide for 30 days written notice to Lessee by such insurer of cancellation, change, non-renewal or reduction (seven days in the case of war risk and allied perils coverage or such shorter period as is customarily available in the industry); (iii) shall provide that in respect of the interests of Lessee in such policies, the insurance shall not be invalidated by any action or inaction of Lessor regardless of any breach or violation of any warranties, declarations or conditions contained in such policies by or binding upon Lessor; and (iv) shall permit the use of the Aircraft by Lessor for compensation or hire to the extent permitted under applicable law. Each such policy shall be primary insurance, not subject to any co-insurance clause and shall be without right of contribution from any other insurance.
          (c) Lessor shall use reasonable commercial efforts to provide such additional insurance coverage for specific flights under this Agreement, if any, as Lessee may request in writing. Lessee also acknowledges that any trips scheduled to the European Union may require Lessor to purchase additional insurance to comply with local regulations. The cost of all additional flight-specific insurance shall be borne by Lessee as set forth in Section 2(d) hereof.
          (d) Each party agrees that it will not do any act or voluntarily suffer or permit any act to be done whereby any insurance required hereunder shall or may be suspended,
 
impaired or defeated. In no event shall Lessor suffer or permit the Aircraft to be used or operated under this Agreement without such insurance being fully in effect.
          (e) Lessor shall ensure that worker's compensation insurance with all-states coverage is provided for the Aircraft's crew and maintenance personnel.
          (f) Lessor shall deliver certificates of insurance to Lessee with respect to the insurance required or permitted to be provided by it hereunder not later than the first flight of the Aircraft under this Agreement and upon the renewal date of each policy.
     9. . Lessee shall be responsible for paying, and Lessor shall be responsible for collecting from Lessee and paying over to the appropriate authorities, all applicable Federal transportation taxes and sales, use or other excise taxes imposed by any governmental authority in connection with any use of the Aircraft by Lessee hereunder. Each party shall indemnify the other party against any and all claims, liabilities, costs and expenses (including attorney's fees as and when incurred) arising out of its breach of this undertaking.
Taxes
     10. . Lessee represents and warrants that:
Lessee's Representations and Warranties
          (a) He will not use the Aircraft for the purposes of providing transportation of passengers or cargo in air commerce for compensation or hire or for common carriage.
          (b) He shall refrain from incurring any mechanic's or other liens in connection with inspection, preventive maintenance, maintenance or storage of the Aircraft, and shall not attempt to convey, mortgage, assign, lease or in any way alienate the Aircraft or create any kind of lien or security interest involving the Aircraft or do anything or take any action that might mature into such a lien.
          (c) He shall not lien or otherwise encumber or create or place any lien or other encumbrance of any kind whatsoever, on or against the Aircraft for any reason. He also will ensure that no liens or encumbrances of any kind whatsoever are created or placed against the Aircraft for claims against Lessee or by Lessee.
          (d) He will abide by and conform to all laws, governmental and airport orders, rules and regulations, as shall be imposed upon the lessee of an aircraft under a time sharing agreement, and applicable company policies of Lessor.
          11. . Lessor represents and warrants that it will abide by and conform to all such laws, governmental and airport orders, rules and regulations, as shall from time to time be in effect relating in any way to the operation and use of the Aircraft pursuant to this Agreement.
Lessor's Representations and Warranties
 
          12. . EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, LESSOR HAS MADE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WITH RESPECT TO THE AIRCRAFT, INCLUDING ANY WITH RESPECT TO ITS CONDITION, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IN NO EVENT SHALL EITHER PARTY BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY OR TO ANY OTHER PERSON FOR ANY INCIDENTIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR SPECIAL DAMAGES, HOWEVER ARISING.
Disclaimer of Warranties
          13.  The term of this Agreement (the "Term") shall commence on the effective date hereof and, unless terminated in accordance with the provisions hereof, shall remain in full force in effect for an initial term ending on December 31, 2011 and thereafter shall automatically renew for successive one-year terms. Notwithstanding the foregoing, either party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement for any reason or no reason by written notice given to the other party not less than 30 days prior to the proposed termination date.
Term.
          14. . Lessee, for himself and on behalf of his agents, guests, invitees, licensees, servants and employees, covenants and agrees that the insurance described in Section 8 hereof shall be the sole recourse for any and all liabilities, claims, demands, suits, causes of action, losses, penalties, fines, expenses or damages, including attorneys fees, court costs and witness fees, attributable to the use, operation or maintenance of the Aircraft pursuant to this Agreement or performance of or failure to perform any obligation under this Agreement.
Limitation of Liability
          15. . Lessor is strictly an independent contractor lessor/provider of transportation services with respect to Lessee. Nothing in this Agreement is intended, nor shall it be construed so as, to constitute the parties as partners or joint venturers or principal and agent. All persons furnished by Lessor for the performance of the operations and activities contemplated by this Agreement shall at all times and for all purposes be considered Lessor's employees or agents.
Relationship of Parties
          16. . This Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its choice of law rules. If any provision of this Agreement conflicts with any statute or rule of law of the State of New York, or is otherwise unenforceable, such provision shall be deemed null and void only the extent of such conflict or unenforceability, and shall be deemed separate from, and shall not invalidate, any other provision of this Agreement.
Governing Law; Severability
          17. . This Agreement may not be amended, supplemented, modified or terminated, or any of its terms varied, except by an agreement in writing signed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendment
          18. . This Time Sharing Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall, for all purposes, be deemed an original and all such
Counterparts
 
counterparts, taken together, shall constitute one and the same agreement, even though all parties may not have executed the same counterpart. Each party may transmit its signature by facsimile, and such faxed signature shall have the same force and effect as an original signature.
          19. . This Time Sharing Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto, and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, other legal representatives, successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto, and, except as otherwise provided herein, to their respective heirs, executors, administrators, other legal representatives, successors and permitted assigns. Lessee agrees that he shall not directly or indirectly sublease, assign, transfer, pledge or hypothecate this Agreement or any part hereof (including any assignment or transfer pursuant to the laws of intestacy) without the prior written consent of Lessor, which may be given or withheld by Lessor in its sole and absolute discretion.
Successors and Assigns
          20. . All notices or other communications delivered or given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if hand-delivered, sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or nationally-utilized overnight delivery service, or confirmed facsimile transmission, as the case may be. Such notices shall be addressed to the parties at the addresses set forth above, or to such other address as may be designated by any party in a writing delivered to the other in the manner set forth in this Section 20. In the case of notices to Lessor, a copy of each such notice shall be sent to Cablevision Systems Corporation, 1111 Stewart Avenue, Bethpage, New York 11714, attention: General Counsel. Notices sent by certified or registered mail shall be deemed received three business days after being mailed. All other notices shall be deemed received on the date delivered. Routine communications may be made by e-mail or fax to the addresses set forth therein.
Notices
          21. . Lessor, on behalf of the Lessee, shall (i) mail a copy of this Agreement to the Aircraft Registration Branch, Technical Section, of the FAA in Oklahoma City within 24 hours of its execution; (ii) notify the Farmingdale Flight Standards District Office at least 48 hours prior to the first flight by Lessor under this Agreement of the registration number of the Aircraft, and the location of the airport of departure and departure time of the first flight; and (iii) carry a copy of this Agreement onboard the Aircraft at all times when the Aircraft is being operated under this Agreement.
Truth-in-Leasing Compliance
          22. :
TRUTH IN LEASING STATEMENT UNDER FAR SECTION 91.23
          (A) LESSOR HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT THE AIRCRAFT HAS BEEN MAINTAINED AND INSPECTED UNDER FAR PART 91 DURING THE 12-MONTH PERIOD PRECEDING THE DATE OF EXECUTION OF THIS AGREEMENT. THE AIRCRAFT WILL BE MAINTAINED AND INSPECTED IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS OF FAR PART 91 FOR ALL OPERATIONS TO BE CONDUCTED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.
          (B) CSC TRANSPORT IV, INC., 8000 REPUBLIC AIRPORT, HANGAR 5,
 
FARMINGDALE, NEW YORK 11735, HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT IT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR OPERATIONAL CONTROL OF THE AIRCRAFT FOR ALL OPERATIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.
          (C) EACH PARTY HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT IT UNDERSTANDS ITS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS.
          (D) THE PARTIES UNDERSTAND THAT AN EXPLANATION OF THE FACTORS BEARING ON OPERATIONAL CONTROL AND THE PERTINENT FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE NEAREST FAA FLIGHT STANDARDS DISTRICT OFFICE.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Lessor and Lessee have executed this Time Sharing Agreement effective as of the date first above written.


