FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20110505174934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
FORM 8-K
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item  2.02Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On May 5, 2011, the Registrants announced their financial results for ended March 31, 2011.  A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
the quarter
 
Item  9.01Financial Statement and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
Earnings Press Release dated May 5, 2011.
99.1
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
3

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
- Cablevision Systems Corporation (NYSE:CVC) today reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011.
Bethpage, N.Y., May 5, 2011
First quarter consolidated net revenues grew 9.7% to $1.922 billion compared to the prior year period, reflecting solid revenue growth in Telecommunications Services and Rainbow.  Consolidated adjusted operating cash flow (AOCF)grew 8.3% to $661.1 million and consolidated operating income grew 5.8% to $375.7 million, both compared to the prior year period.  First quarter 2011 results reflect the Bresnan properties acquired on December 14, 2010 as well as transaction costs of $8.0 million related to the proposed Rainbow distribution.  Revenue, AOCF and operating income growth compared to the prior year period would have been 3.1%, 3.7% and 7.7%, respectively, if these items were excluded.
1
Operating highlights for the first quarter 2011 include:
 
Cablevision President and CEO James L. Dolan commented:  For the first quarter of 2011, Cablevision generated strong increases in revenue and AOCF.  This performance was driven by steady growth in our Rainbow business as well as our cable business, which this quarter included a solid showing from the recently acquired Bresnan properties.  The company generated more than $290 million in free cash flow for the quarter and we have increased the dividend by 20 percent, enabling us to provide Cablevision shareholders with even more value.  Lastly, we remain on track with our planned spin-off of Rainbow, which we continue to believe will also be beneficial for shareholders, concluded Mr. Dolan.
 
Results from Continuing Operations
2
Segment results for the quarters ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows:
 
 
 
Page 1 of 10
 
 
Telecommunications Services  Cable Television and Lightpath
Telecommunications Services includes Cable Television  Cablevisions video, high-speed data, and voice residential and commercial services offered over its cable infrastructure -- and its Optimum Lightpath branded commercial data and voice services.   First quarter 2011 Telecommunications and Cable Television results below reflect the Bresnan properties acquired on December 14, 2010.
Telecommunications Services net revenues for the first quarter 2011 rose 10.9% to $1.559 billion, AOCF grew 10.0% to $621.1 million and operating income increased 8.0% to $383.0 million, all compared to the prior year period.  Revenue, AOCF and operating income growth compared to the prior year period would have been 2.7%, 3.6% and 7.6%, respectively, if Bresnan results were excluded.
The following table illustrates the change in the Telecommunications Services customer base during the first quarter of 2011:
 
Customer Data
 
 
Cable Television
Cable Television first quarter 2011 net revenues increased 10.7% to $1.487 billion, AOCF increased 9.2% to $588.6 million and operating income increased 6.4% to $372.1 million, each compared to the prior year period.  The increase in revenue, AOCF and operating income compared to the prior year period was due primarily to the addition of Bresnan in the first quarter 2011 results.    Excluding Bresnan, growth in revenue, AOCF and operating income would have been 2.1%, 2.5% and 6.0%, respectively.
Optimum Lightpath
For first quarter 2011, Lightpath net revenues increased 13.4% to $77.3 million, AOCF increased 25.7% to $32.5 million and operating income increased 119.7% to $10.9 million, each as compared to the prior year period.  The improved results were driven primarily by a 27.9% increase in revenue from Ethernet services, offset in part by higher operating expenses to support the increase in Ethernet installations.
 
Page 2 of 10
 
Rainbow
Rainbow consists of the National Networks:  AMC, WE tv, IFC and Sundance Channel as well as other Rainbow businesses including its international programming business, IFC Entertainment and Rainbow Network Communications.
Rainbow net revenues for the first quarter of 2011 increased 9.9% to $272.9 million, AOCF rose 8.3% to $99.5 million, and operating income grew 14.8% to $70.7 million, all compared to the prior year period.
The first quarter 2011 Rainbow AOCF results reflect:
 
 
Other
Other primarily consists of Newsday, News 12 Networks, MSG Varsity, Clearview Cinemas, Rainbow Advertising Sales Corporation (RASCO) and unallocated corporate general and administrative costs.
First quarter 2011 net revenues decreased 7.4% to $101.6 million, AOCF deficit increased 28.8% to a deficit of $59.6 million and operating loss increased 27.4% to a loss of $77.9 million, all compared to the prior year period.  The revenue decline was primarily driven by decreases in advertising revenues at Newsday.  The AOCF decline was driven by the decrease in revenue as well as transaction costs of $8.0 million related to the proposed Rainbow distribution.
 
Other Matters
During the first quarter of 2011, Cablevision repurchased 6.7 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $234.4 million.
On May 4, 2011, the Board of Directors of Cablevision declared a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share on each outstanding share of both its Cablevision NY Group Class A Stock and its Cablevision NY Group Class B Stock.  This quarterly dividend is payable on June 6, 2011 to shareholders of record at the close of business on May 16, 2011.
 
Page 3 of 10
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We define adjusted operating cash flow (AOCF), which is a non-GAAP financial measure, as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), excluding share-based compensation expense or benefit and restructuring charges or credits.  Because it is based upon operating income (loss), AOCF also excludes interest expense (including cash interest expense) and other non-operating income and expense items.  We believe that the exclusion of share-based compensation expense or benefit allows investors to better track the performance of the various operating units of our business without regard to the distortive effects of fluctuating stock prices in the case of stock appreciation rights and, in the case of restricted shares and stock options, the settlement of an obligation that is not expected to be made in cash.
We present AOCF as a measure of our ability to service our debt and make continuing investments, including in our capital infrastructure.  We believe AOCF is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of our business segments and the company on a consolidated basis.  AOCF and similar measures with similar titles are common performance measures used by investors, analysts and peers to compare performance in our industry.  Internally, we use net revenues and AOCF measures as the most important indicators of our business performance, and evaluate managements effectiveness with specific reference to these indicators.  AOCF should be viewed as a supplement to and not a substitute for operating income (loss), net income (loss), cash flows from operating activities, and other measures of performance and/or liquidity presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP").  Since AOCF is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP, this measure may not be comparable to similar measures with similar titles used by other companies.  For a reconciliation of AOCF to operating income (loss), please see page 5 of this release.
We define Consolidated Free Cash Flow from Continuing Operations, (Free Cash Flow), which is a non-GAAP financial measure, as net cash from operating activities (continuing operations) less capital expenditures (continuing operations), both of which are reported in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  Net cash from operating activities excludes net cash from operating activities of our discontinued operations.  We believe the most comparable GAAP financial measure of our liquidity is net cash from operating activities.  We believe that Free Cash Flow is useful as an indicator of our overall liquidity, as the amount of Free Cash Flow generated in any period is representative of cash that is available for debt repayment and other discretionary and non-discretionary cash uses.  It is also one of several indicators of our ability to make investments and/or return capital to our shareholders. We also believe that Free Cash Flow is one of several benchmarks used by analysts and investors who follow our industry for comparison of our liquidity with other companies in our industry, although our measure of Free Cash Flow may not be directly comparableto similar measures reported by other companies.
 
COMPANY DESCRIPTION
Cablevision Systems Corporation is one of the nation's leading telecommunications, media and entertainment companies. In addition to delivering its Optimum-branded cable, Internet, and voice offerings throughout the New York area, the company owns and operates cable systems serving homes in four Western states.  Cablevisions local media properties include News 12 Networks, MSG Varsity and Newsday Media Group.  Cablevision's assets also include Rainbow Media Holdings LLC and its programming and entertainment businesses, AMC, IFC, Sundance Channel, WE tv and IFC Entertainment, as well as Clearview Cinemas.  Additional information about Cablevision is available on the Web at www.cablevision.com.
This earnings release may contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including financial community and rating agency perceptions of the company and its business, operations, financial condition and the industries in which it operates and the factors described in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained therein.  The company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained herein.
Cablevisions Web site:  
www.cablevision.com
The conference call will be Webcast live today at 10:00 a.m. ET
Conference call dial-in number is (888) 694-4641/ Conference ID Number 58569824
Conference call replay number (706) 645-9291/ Conference ID Number 58569824 until May 12, 2011
 
Page 4 of 10
 
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
 
 
Page 5 of 10
 
 
 
The following is a description of the adjustments to operating income (loss) in arriving at adjusted operating cash flow included in this earnings release:
 
Page 6 of 10
 
 
REVENUES, NET
 
 
ADJUSTED OPERATING CASH FLOW AND OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)
 
 
 
Page 7 of 10
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 10
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
CAPITALIZATION
LEVERAGE
 
 
Page 9 of 10
 
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
(Dollars in thousands)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 10


