FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20110218151712.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 18, 2011, Consolidated Financial Statements of Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries (RNS), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, LLC, as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 and for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations were furnished to RNS bondholders in accordance with the requirements of the Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to RNS and RNS Co-Issuer Corporations $300,000,000 8-3/4% Senior Notes due 2012 and the Indenture, dated as of August 20, 2004, relating to RNS and RNS Co-Issuer Corporations $325,000,000 10-3/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014. The RNS Consolidated Financial S tatements are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the RNS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and both items are being furnished in this Form 8-K filing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Independent Auditors Report
 
The Board of Directors
Rainbow National Services LLC:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Rainbow National Services LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, members deficiency and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010.  In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the related consolidated financial statement schedule (Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts).  These consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.  Accordingly, we express no such opinion.  An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by man agement, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Rainbow National Services LLC is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary and operates as an integral part of Cablevision Systems Corporation (Cablevision).  As described in Notes 1, 10 and 11, these consolidated financial statements have been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Cablevision and reflect certain assumptions and allocations.  The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Rainbow National Services LLC could differ from those that might have resulted had Rainbow National Services LLC been operated autonomously or as an entity independent of Cablevision.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Rainbow National Services LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related consolidated financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
Melville, New York
February 18, 2011
 
 
(2)
 
 
 
 
 
(3)
 
 
 
 
 
(4)
 
 
 
 
 
(5)
 
 
 
 
 
(6)
 
 
Rainbow National Services LLC and Subsidiaries
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Dollars in thousands)
 
Nature of Operations
In July 2004, Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") formed Rainbow National Services LLC (the "Company").  Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC (Rainbow Programming Holdings), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings LLC (Rainbow Media Holdings), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision, owns 100% of the membership interests in the Company.  The Company is a holding company with no independent operations of its own.  Its subsidiaries include entities that principally own nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment services operated as integral parts of Cablevision, including AMC, WE tv and IFC.  The Companys consolidated financial statements have been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Cablevision and reflect certain assumptions and allocations (see notes 10 and 11).  The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company could differ from those that might have resulted had the Company been operated autonomously or as an entity independent of Cablevision.  See Note 16 for the proposed distribution of Rainbow Media Holdings by Cablevision.
 
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and Regulation S-X of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for annual financial information as required by the Companys indentures (see note 6) even though the Company is not a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Principles of Consolidation
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation.
Revenue Recognition
The Company recognizes affiliation fee revenue from cable television system operators, direct broadcast satellite operators and telecommunications companies that carry the Companys programming services under multi-year contracts, commonly referred to as affiliation agreements.  The programming services are delivered throughout the terms of the agreements and the Company recognizes revenue as programming is provided.
Advertising revenues are recognized when commercials are aired.  In certain advertising sales arrangements, the Companys programming businesses guarantee specified viewer ratings for their programming.  For these types of transactions, a portion of such revenue is deferred if the guaranteed viewer ratings are not met and is subsequently recognized either when the Company provides the required additional advertising time, the guarantee obligation contractually expires or performance requirements become remote.
 
 
(7)
 
 
Revenues derived from other sources are recognized when services are provided or events occur.
Multiple-Element Transactions
If there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value for all elements of accounting in a multiple-element arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate elements of accounting based on relative fair values.  There may be cases in which there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered items in an arrangement but no such evidence for the delivered items.  In those cases, the Company utilizes the residual method to allocate the arrangement consideration.  Under the residual method, the amount of consideration allocated to the delivered items equals the total arrangement consideration less the aggregate fair value of the undelivered items.  In determining fair value, the Company refers to historical transactions or comparable cash transactions.
On January 1, 2011, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2009-13, Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which is applicable on a prospective basis to revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified on or after January 1, 2011.   ASU No. 2009-13 eliminates the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration to deliverables, requires the use of the relative selling price method and requires that a vendor determine its best estimate of selling price in a manner consistent with that used to determine the price to sell the deliverable on a standalone basis.
The Company, together with other subsidiaries or affiliates of Cablevision, may enter into affiliation agreements which are documented in one or more contracts; however, negotiated contemporaneously.  Amounts paid/received by other subsidiaries of Cablevision or the Company may differ from the amounts that would have been paid/received if such arrangements were negotiated separately.  Where Cablevision has incurred a cost incremental to fair value and the Company has received a benefit incremental to fair value from these negotiations in the form of increased affiliation fee revenues, Cablevision charges the Company for the incremental amount.  Likewise, where the Company has received affiliation fee revenues less than fair value amounts and Cablevision has received a benefit incremental to fair value from these negotiations in the form of decreased programming costs, the Company charges Cablevision for the incremental amount. Judgments made in determining fair value impact the amount and period in which revenues from multi-element arrangements are recognized over the term of the individual affiliation agreements.
Technical and Operating Expenses
Costs of revenues related to programming services including, but not limited to, license fees, amortization of program rights, participation and residual costs and programming and production costs, are classified as technical and operating expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.
 
 
(8)
 
 
Advertising and Distribution Expenses
Advertising costs are charged to expense when incurred and are recorded to selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.  Advertising costs were $68,378, $65,334 and $68,624 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.  Marketing, distribution and general and administrative costs related to the exploitation of owned original programming is expensed as incurred.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company's cash investments are placed with money market funds and financial institutions that are investment grade as rated by Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service.  The Company selects money market funds that predominantly invest in marketable, direct obligations issued or guaranteed by the United States government or its agencies, commercial paper, fully collateralized repurchase agreements, certificates of deposit, and time deposits.
The Company considers the balance of its investment in funds that substantially hold securities that mature within three months or less from the date the fund purchases these securities to be cash equivalents.The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents either approximates fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments or are at fair value.
 
Accounts Receivable
The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of valuation allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable by evaluating the collectibility of outstanding receivables and general factors such as length of time individual receivables are past due, historical collection experience, and the economic and competitive environment.
Program Rights
Rights to programming, including feature films and episodic series, acquired under license agreements are stated at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value.  Such licensed rights along with the related obligations are recorded at the contract value when a license agreement is executed, unless there is uncertainty with respect to either cost, acceptability or availability.  If such uncertainty exists, those rights and obligations are recorded at the earlier of when the uncertainty is resolved or when the license period begins.  Costs are amortized to technical and operating expense on a straight-line basis over the respective license periods. 
The Companys owned original programming is primarily produced by independent production companies, with the remainder produced by the Company.  Owned original programming costs, including estimated participation and residual costs, qualifying for capitalization as program rights are amortized to technical and operating expense over their estimated useful lives, commencing upon the first airing, based on attributable revenue for airings to date as a percentage of total projected attributable revenue.  Projected program usage is based on the historical performance of similar content.  Estimated attributable revenue can change based upon programming market acceptance, levels of affiliation fee revenues and advertising revenues, and program usage.    Accordingly, the Company periodic ally reviews revenue estimates and planned usage and revises its assumptions if necessary which could impact the timing of amortization expense or result in an impairment charge.   Owned original program rights of $41,081 at December 31, 2010 is included as a component of long-term program rights, net.  The Company expects to amortize approximately $18,657 of owned original program rights at December 31, 2010 during the year ending December 31, 2011 and expects to amortize 91% of owned original program rights within the next three years.
 
 
(9)
 
 
The Company periodically reviews the programming usefulness of its licensed and owned original program rights based on a series of factors, including ratings, type and quality of program material, standards and practices, and fitness for exhibition.  If it is determined that film or other program rights have no future programming usefulness, a write-off of the unamortized cost is recorded in technical and operating expense.  Impairment charges of $1,053 and $7,178 were recorded for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  There were no impairment charges recorded for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets
Property and equipment are carried at cost.  Equipment under capital leases is recorded at the present value of the total minimum lease payments.  Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets or, with respect to equipment under capital leases and leasehold improvements, amortized over the shorter of the lease term or the assets' useful lives and reported in depreciation and amortization in the consolidated statements of income.
Intangible assets established in connection with business acquisitions consist of affiliation agreements and affiliate relationships, advertiser relationships, other intangibles and goodwill.  These intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their respective estimated useful lives.  Goodwill acquired in purchase business combinations is not amortized.
The Company reviews its long-lived assets (property and equipment, and intangible assets subject to amortization that arose from acquisitions) for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  If the sum of the expected cash flows, undiscounted and without interest, is less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value.
The Company evaluates the recoverability of its goodwill annually or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired.  Goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step process.  The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill utilizing an enterprise-value based premise approach.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss, if any.  The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. & #160;If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill which would be recognized in a business combination.  The company has three reporting units for goodwill impairment testing, AMC, WE tv and IFC.
 
 
(10)
 
 
 
Program Rights Obligations
Amounts payable subsequent to December 31, 2010 related to program rights obligations included in the balance sheet are as follows:
In July 2003, American Movie Classics Company LLC (AMC LLC), WE: Womens Entertainment LLC (WE LLC), and The Independent Film Channel LLC (IFC LLC) and Rainbow Media Holdings, as licensees, entered into an agreement with a film studio for feature film telecast rights.  Each licensee recorded its allocated share of the program rights asset and all of the payment obligations for which they are jointly and severally liable. Such payment obligations initially amounted to $84,000 in total of which $19,500 remained unpaid at December 31, 2010 and is included in the amounts above.  Program rights of approximately $17,000 were allocated outside of the Company to affiliates during 2003.  Payments of program rights obligations by affiliates for program rights allocated outside of the Company amounted to $1,211, $1,514 and $2,625 during 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.  The allocation of these film assets was treated as a deemed capital distribution in 2003 and the payments of program rights obligations made by affiliates for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, were treated as a deemed capital contribution in the accompanying consolidated statements of members deficiency.
Off balance sheet program rights obligations at December 31, 2010 that have not yet met the criteria to be recorded in the balance sheet are $67,930 which are payable:  $63,662 in 2011, $2,548 in 2012, $1,376 in 2013, $69 in 2014, $69 in 2015 and $206 thereafter.
Deferred Carriage Fees
Deferred carriage fees represent amounts principally paid or payable to cable television system operators, direct broadcast satellite operators and telecommunications companies to obtain additional subscribers and/or guarantee carriage of certain programming services and are amortized as a reduction of revenue over the period of the related guarantee (4 to 13 years).
 
 
(11)
 
 
 
Deferred Financing Costs
Costs incurred to obtain debt are deferred and amortized to interest expense ratably over the life of the related debt.
Income Taxes
The Companys provision for income taxes is based on current period income, changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in estimates with regard to uncertain tax positions. Deferred tax assets are subject to an ongoing assessment of realizability.  The Company provides deferred taxes for the outside basis difference of its investment in partnerships.  Interest and penalties, if any, associated with uncertain tax positions are included in income tax expense.
 
The Company was included in the consolidated federal and state income tax returns of Cablevision for the years presented herein.  The income tax expense in the consolidated statements of income is based upon the taxable income of the Company on a separate tax return basis.  Since there is no tax sharing agreement in place between the Company and Cablevision, allocable current income tax liabilities calculated on a stand-alone company basis that the Company does not pay directly have been reflected as deemed capital contributions to the Company from its parent.  Such contributions amounted to $94,290, $81,250, and $60,363 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
Comprehensive Income
Comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 equals net income for the respective periods.
Share-Based Compensation
Cablevision charges the Company expenses or benefits related to its various employee stock plans.  Cablevision records share-based compensation expense during the period based on the fair value of the portion of share-based payment awards that are ultimately expected to vest.  Cablevision uses the Black-Scholes valuation model in determining the fair value of share-based payments.  Shared-based payment awards are expensed on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.  As the obligations related to the grants for equity classified and liability classified awards under the Cablevision employee stock plans are satisfied by Cablevision, the allocation to the Company of its proportionate share of the related expenses is reflected as a deemed capital contribution in the accompanying conso lidated financial statements.
Foreign Currency Transactions
The Company has no foreign operations, but has a limited number of trade receivables denominated in a foreign currency, primarily Canadian dollars.  The Company recognized $(90), $329 and $(712) of foreign currency transaction (losses) gains for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to those receivables denominated in a foreign currency from affiliation agreements with foreign cable system and direct broadcast satellite operators.  Such amounts are included in miscellaneous, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.
 
 
(12)
 
 
 
Cash Flows
 
During 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company's non-cash investing and financing activities and other supplemental data were as follows:
Derivative Financial Instruments
The Company accounts for derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities measured at fair value.  The Companys embedded derivative financial instruments are clearly and closely related to the host contracts; therefore, such derivative financial instruments are not accounted for on a stand-alone basis.   The Company, at times, uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure to market risks from changes in interest rates and does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.  These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges, and changes in the fair values of these derivatives are recognized in income as gains (losses) on derivative contracts.
Use of Estimates in Preparation of Financial Statements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
 
(13)
 
 
 
Commitments and Contingencies
Liabilities for loss contingencies arising from claims, assessments, litigation, fines and penalties and other sources are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the contingency can be reasonably estimated.
Reportable Segments
The Company classifies its operations into one reportable segment.  The previous reportable segments, AMC Networks (which comprises AMC and WE tv) and IFC, no longer qualify to be presented as two separate reportable segments as those operations are now included in one operating segment as the Companys Chief Operating Decision Maker reviews the operating results of these businesses on a combined basis as of December 2010.
Reclassifications
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to the
accompanying
2009 and 2008 consolidated
financial statements to conform to the 2010 presentation.
 
During 2008, the Company recorded restructuring expenses of $92 for employee severance.  There were no restructuring expenses recorded or unpaid balances as of and for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.
 
Property and equipment (including equipment under capital leases) consist of the following assets, which are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives shown below:
 
Depreciation expense on property and equipment (including capital leases)amounted to $5,102, $5,053 and $5,284, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.
 
 
(14)
 
 
 
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the gross amount of equipment and related accumulated amortization recorded under capital leases were as follows:
The following table summarizes information relating to the Company's acquired intangible assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
The Company has historically been able to renew affiliation agreements upon expiration and has factored its experience with such renewals in estimating the future cash flows associated with its affiliation agreements and affiliate relationship intangible assets.
There were no accumulated impairment losses related to goodwill for any periods as of December 31, 2010.
 
(15)
 
 
 
In March 2009, the Company acquired a film web site business for $250 cash and recorded a liability of $231 for the net present value of additional annual required payments of $135 through 2011.  In allocating the $481 purchase price, the Company recorded intangible assets of $126, $274 and $81 for advertiser relationships, other definite-lived intangibles and goodwill, respectively.
During 2008, the Company acquired a film web site business for $227 cash, including acquisition costs, and recorded a liability of $574 for the net present value of additional annual required payments of $185 through 2012.  In allocating the $801 purchase price, the Company recorded intangible assets of $160, $370 and $271 for advertiser relationships, other intangibles and goodwill, respectively.
Credit Facility Debt
The Company has a credit facility providing for an $800,000 senior secured credit facility (the Credit Facility), which consists of a $500,000 term A loan facility and a $300,000 revolving credit facility.  The term A loan facility matures June 30, 2013 and the revolving credit facility matures June 30, 2012.  The Credit Facility allows the Company to utilize up to $50,000 of the revolving credit facility for letters of credit and up to $5,000 for a swing loan.  Further, the Credit Facility provides for an incremental facility of up to $925,000, provided that it be for a minimum amount of $100,000.  There are no commitments from the lenders to fund this incremental facility other than the $280,000 incremental revolver supplement (Incremental Revolver) entered into on J une 3, 2008 discussed below.  Whenever incremental facilities are established, the Company and the lenders must enter into a supplement to the Credit Facility with terms and conditions that are no more restrictive than those in the Credit Facility.
In June 2008, the Company borrowed $210,000 under its revolving credit facility which was transferred to Rainbow Media Holdings and recorded as a capital distribution by the Company to its parent, Rainbow Programming Holdings, in connection with Rainbow Media Holdings acquisition of Sundance Channel L.L.C.  Further, during 2008, the Company borrowed $66,000 under the revolving credit facility and repaid $25,000 and $51,000 of the outstanding balance under the term loan facility and the revolving credit facility, respectively.  In 2009, the Company repaid $25,000 and $95,000 of the outstanding balance under the term loan facility and the revolving credit facility, respectively.  In 2010, the Company repaid $25,000 and $80,000 of the outstanding balance under the term loan facility and the revolving c redit facility, respectively.  Outstanding borrowings under the term loan facility and revolving credit facility were $425,000 and $50,000, respectively, at December 31, 2010.  The Company had $250,000 in undrawn revolver commitments at December 31, 2010.
 
Borrowings under the Credit Facility are direct obligations of the Company which are guaranteed jointly and severally by substantially all of its subsidiaries and by Rainbow Programming Holdings, and are secured by the pledge of the stock of the Company and the stock of substantially all of its subsidiaries and all of the other assets of the Company and substantially all of its subsidiaries (subject to certain limited exceptions).
 
 
(16)
 
 
 
Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest based on either the Base Rate (the greater of the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% and the prime rate (as defined in the Credit Facility)) or the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the Credit Facility). The interest rate under the Credit Facility varies, depending on the Companys cash flow ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility), from 1.0% to 1.5% over the Eurodollar Rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and from zero to 0.5% over the Base Rate for Base Rate borrowings. At December 31, 2010, the weighted average interest rate on both the term A loan facility and amounts drawn under the original revolving credit facility was 1.26%.
The borrowings under the Credit Facility may be repaid without penalty at any time.  The term A loan is to be repaid in quarterly installments of $12,500 in 2011 and 2012, and $162,500 beginning on March 31, 2013 through its maturity date in June 2013.  Any amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility are due at maturity on June 30, 2012.
The Credit Facility contains various financial and other covenants.  As defined in the Credit Facility, the financial covenants consist of (i) a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to total interest expense for each quarter of 1.75 to 1, (ii) a maximum cash flow ratio of total indebtedness to operating cash flow of 6.25 to 1, and (iii) a maximum senior secured leverage ratio of senior secured debt to operating cash flow of 5.50 to 1.  Additional covenants include restrictions on indebtedness, guarantees, liens, investments, dividends and distributions and transactions with affiliates.
The Company was in compliance with all of its financial covenants under its Credit Facility and Incremental Revolver as of December 31, 2010.
The Company is obligated to pay fees of 0.375% per annum on any undrawn revolver commitment.
Incremental Revolver
On June 3, 2008, the Company entered into the Incremental Revolver whereby the Company received commitments from lenders in the amount of $280,000.  The interest rate under the Incremental Revolver is 2.0% over the Eurodollar rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and 1.0% over the Base Rate for Base Rate borrowings (as defined in the Incremental Revolver).  The Incremental Revolver matures on June 30, 2012 and the terms and conditions of the Incremental Revolver are no more restrictive than those of the Credit Facility.  The Company is obligated to pay fees of 0.375% per annum on any undrawn portion of the Incremental Revolver commitment balance.  Borrowings under the Incremental Revolver may be repaid without penalty at any time.  There were no borrowings outstanding under the Increment al Revolver facility at December 31, 2010.
 
In connection with the Incremental Revolver, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $2,941 which are being amortized to interest expense over the four-year term of the Incremental Revolver.
,
 
 
(17)
 
 
 
Senior and Senior Subordinated Notes
As of December 31, 2010, the Companys notes outstanding consist of $300,000 aggregate principal amount of 8 3/4% senior notes due September 1, 2012, and $325,000 aggregate principal amount of 10 3/8% senior subordinated notes due September 1, 2014.  The senior notes and the senior subordinated notes were discounted $2,163 and $3,915, respectively, upon original issuance in 2004.  These notes are guaranteed by substantially all of the Companys subsidiaries. Principal covenants include a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness based upon a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow (as defined in the indentures) of 6.0 to 1, limitations on dividends and distributions, and limitations on investments and the ability to incur liens (according to the terms of the senior note indenture).
The Company may redeem the senior notes, in whole or in part, at any time, at a redemption price equal to 100% of face value.   The senior subordinated notes are redeemable, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 103.458% of face value, which decreases to 101.729% on or after September 1, 2011 and 100% on or after September 1, 2012.  The notes are redeemable at the redemption price plus accrued and unpaid interest through the redemption date.
The indentures under which the senior notes and the senior subordinated notes were issued contain various other covenants, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the Credit Facility.
The Company has no independent assets or operations of its own, the guarantees under the senior notes and the senior subordinated notes are full and unconditional and joint and several, and the net assets of any subsidiaries of the Company other than the subsidiary guarantors are minor.  There are no restrictions on the ability of the Company or any of the subsidiary guarantors to obtain funds from its subsidiaries by dividend or loan.
Summary of Five-Year Debt Maturities
Total amounts payable by the Company under its various debt obligations (excluding capital leases) outstanding as of December 31, 2010, during the five years subsequent to December 31, 2010 are as follows:
 
(18)
 
 
 
 
To manage interest rate risk, the Company enters into interest rate swap contracts from time to time to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable rates.  Such contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates.   The Company does not enter into interest rate swap contracts for speculative or trading purposes and it only enters into interest rate swap contracts with financial institutions that are rated investment grade.  The Company monitors the financial institutions that are counterparties to its interest rate swap contracts and diversifies its swap contracts among various counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution. There were no outstanding interest rate swap contracts as of De cember 31, 2010.
In November 2008, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with a notional amount of $450,000 to effectively fix borrowing rates on a substantial portion of the Companys floating rate debt.  The interest rate swap contracts matured in November 2009.  These contracts were not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  For the year ended December 31, 2009, realized losses were $3,237 and is reflected in loss on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statement of income.
For the year ended December 31, 2008, unrealized losses resulting from changes in the fair value of the Company's interest rate swap contracts and realized losses resulting from net cash interest expense of $2,843 is reflected in loss on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statement of income.
The fair value hierarchy as outlined in ASC Topic 820 is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are used to measure fair value that are either observable or unobservable.  Observable inputs reflect assumptions market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability based on market data obtained from independent sources while unobservable inputs reflect a reporting entity's pricing based upon their own market assumptions.  The fair value hierarchy consists of the following three levels:
 
The following table presents for each of these hierarchy levels, the Company's financial assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
At December 31, 2010:
 
 
(19)
 
 
 
At December 31, 2009:
 
The Company's cash equivalents at December 31, 2010 and 2009 are classified within Level I of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value:
Credit Facility Debt, Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes
 
The fair values of each of the Companys debt instruments are based on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for instruments of the same remaining maturities.
The carrying values and estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments, excluding those that are carried at fair value in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets are summarized as follows:
 
Fair value estimates related to the Companys debt instruments presented above are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market information and information about the financial instrument. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgments and therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
 
 
20
 
 
 
Cablevision, and companies owned or managed by Cablevision, lease certain office space under long-term lease agreements with non-affiliates.  The leases generally provide for fixed annual rentals plus certain real estate taxes and other costs or credits. The Company pays its share of monthly lease payments for the portion of the premises occupied by its employees.  Rent expense incurred by the Company which was allocated by Cablevision or Rainbow Media Holdings was $4,139, $3,589 and $3,715, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Certain subsidiaries of the Company lease office space and equipment under long-term non-cancelable operating lease agreements with non-affiliates which expire at various dates through 2015.  The leases generally provide for fixed annual rentals plus certain other costs or credits.  Costs associated with such operating leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease term.  The difference between rent expense and rent paid is recorded as deferred rent.  Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 amounted to $809, $772 and $632, respectively.
The minimum future annual payments for all Company operating leases with non-affiliates (with initial or remaining terms in excess of one year) during the next five years from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2015 and thereafter, at rates now in force are as follows:
Certain capital lease assets for transponder space have been subleased to the Company from an affiliate of Rainbow Media Holdings. Future minimum capital lease payments as of December 31, 2010 with affiliates and non-affiliates are as follows:
Of the Companys capital lease obligation at December 31, 2010 and 2009, $5,825 and $6,175, respectively, is due to an affiliate of Rainbow Media Holdings.
 
 
21
 
 
 
Allocations
The Company provides services to and receives services from affiliates of Cablevision and Rainbow Media Holdings. The consolidated financial statements of the Company reflect the application of certain cost allocation policies of Cablevision and Rainbow Media Holdings.  Management believes that these allocations have been made on a reasonable basis.  However, it is not practicable to determine whether the allocated amounts represent amounts that might have been incurred on a stand-alone basis, as there are no company-specific or comparable industry benchmarks with which to make such estimates.  Further, as many of these transactions are conducted between subsidiaries under common control of Cablevision, amounts charged for these services may not represent amounts that might have been received or incurred i f the transactions were based upon arm's length negotiations.   Explanations of the composition and the amounts of the more significant transactions and allocations, not explained elsewhere in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements, are described below.
The following is a summary of the revenues and expenses included in the Companys consolidated statements of income related to transactions with or charges from affiliates of Cablevision and Rainbow Media Holdings:
 
22
 
 
 
Revenues, net
Affiliation fee revenues
The Company recognizes revenue from the distribution of programming services to subsidiaries of Cablevision under affiliation agreements.  In addition, the Company together with other subsidiaries of Cablevision, may enter into agreements with third parties in which the amounts paid/received by Cablevision, its subsidiaries, or the Company may differ from the amounts that would have been paid/received if such arrangements were negotiated separately. Where other subsidiaries of Cablevision have incurred a cost incremental to fair value and the Company has received a benefit incremental to fair value from these negotiations in the form of increased affiliation fee revenues, the other subsidiaries of Cablevision charge the Company for the incremental amount.  In one such agreement executed in 2007, other subsidiaries o f Cablevision charged the Company $2,433 which was recorded as deferred carriage fees by the Company and is being amortized as a reduction to revenue over the term of the related affiliation agreement.  Amortization of this charge amounted to $331 for each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.  In another such agreement executed in 2005, Cablevision charged the Company approximately $4,900, which was recorded as deferred carriage fees by the Company and is being amortized as a reduction to revenue over the remaining term of the related affiliation agreement.  Amortization of this charge amounted to $371 for each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.
Revenues earned under affiliation agreements with companies owned by or affiliated with Cablevision for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $16,536, $16,162 and $16,018, respectively.
Advertising revenues
Rainbow Media Holdings pays the Company for advertising revenue earned in connection with an agreement between Rainbow Media Holdings and a third party entered into during 2000.  Such revenues were $592 and $396 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  This contract expired as of December 31, 2009, accordingly, there were no such revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010.  In addition, the Company recorded advertising revenues of $183, $113 and $24 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, earned from subsidiaries of Rainbow Media Holdings.
Other revenues
The Company records revenues as earned in connection with the licensing of owned program rights under arrangements with subsidiaries of Rainbow Media Holdings.  There were no such revenues recorded for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
 
23
 
 
 
Operating Expenses
Corporate General and Administrative Costs
General and administrative costs, including costs of maintaining corporate headquarters, facilities and common support functions (such as human resources, legal, finance, tax, accounting, audit, treasury, risk management, strategic planning, information technology, etc.) have been charged to the Company by Cablevision and Rainbow Media Holdings. Certain charges are generally based on relative revenues or expenses of the Company in relation to those of consolidated Cablevision or Rainbow Media Holdings.  The remaining overhead, principally salaries of corporate executives, is primarily allocated based on management's estimate of the level of effort expended on each business unit based on historical trends.
Management Fees
Under contractual agreements, CSC Holdings, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision, provides certain management services to the Company.  These agreements provide for payment, in addition to expense reimbursement, of an aggregate fee of 3.5% of AMC LLC and its subsidiaries, including WE LLC, gross revenues, as defined in the management agreement.
Health and Welfare Plans
Employees of the Company participate in health and welfare plans sponsored by Cablevision.  Health and welfare benefit costs have generally been charged by Cablevision based upon the proportionate number of participants in the plans.
Advertising
The Company incurs advertising expenses charged by subsidiaries of Rainbow Media Holdings and affiliates of Cablevision.
Sales Support Function
Rainbow Media Holdings provides affiliation sales support functions which primarily include salaries, facilities, and general and administrative costs to the Company.  Additionally, affiliates of Cablevision provide ad sales support functions which primarily includes general and administrative costs to the Company.
Other Support Functions, net
Affiliates of Cablevision and Rainbow Media Holdings provide various public relations, research, acquisitions, creative and production services, and digital media and administrative support functions which primarily includes salaries, facilities, and general and administrative costs to the Company.  The Company provides certain selling, general and administrative support functions to affiliates of Rainbow Media Holdings.
 
 
24
 
 
 
Program Rights Usage (Charges)
The Company has the right to exhibit and promote films under contracts between the Company and subsidiaries of Rainbow Media Holdings in addition to subsidiaries of Rainbow Media Holdings having the right to exhibit and promote films under contracts between the Company and third parties.
Transmission Programming and Production Services
Rainbow Network Communications (RNC), a subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings, provides certain transmission and production services to the Company.  Such costs charged to the Company have been included in technical and operating expenses.  The Company has entered into agreements, as amended, that allow RNC to continue providing these services and to make capital purchases on the Companys behalf for transmission related equipment through 2019.  Estimated future cash payments required under these agreements, excluding any obligations relating to transponder space, amount to $10,281 in 2011, $12,260 in 2012, $12,763 in 2013, $13,291 in 2014, $13,846 in 2015 and $57,006 thereafter.  Additionally, RNC leases transponder space to the Company under a transponder lease agreement thro ugh 2020.  See Note 9 for amounts due under this arrangement.
 
Share-based Compensation and Long-Term Incentive Plans Expenses
Cablevision allocates to the Company its proportionate share of expenses or benefits related to Cablevision's employee stock plans and Cablevision's long-term incentive plans.  Such amounts are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of income.  Liabilities related to the stock appreciation rights (SARs) granted under the Cablevision employee stock plans are funded by Rainbow Media Holdings and the Company is not required to reimburse Rainbow Media Holdings; therefore, similar to other allocated share-based compensation, the allocation to the Company of itsproportionate share of the related expenses is reflected as capital contributions from Rainbow Media Holdings in the consolidated financial statements of the Company.  The long-term incentive plans are funded by the Company and aggregate liabilities of $20,100 and $17,639, related to these plans are included in accrued employee related costs and other long-term liabilities in the Companys consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  These liabilities include certain performance based awards for which the performance criteria had not been met as of December 31, 2010 as such awards are based on achievement of certain performance criteria through December 31, 2012.  The Company has accrued the amount that it currently believes will ultimately be paid based upon the performance criteria established for these performance-based awards.  If it is subsequently determined that the performance criteria for such awards is not probable of being achieved, the Company would reverse the accrual in respect of such award at that time.
 
 
 
25
 
 
 
Cablevision sponsors a non-contributory, qualified defined benefit cash balance pension plan, a non-contributory non-qualified defined benefit excess cash balance plan, a qualified defined contribution 401(k) savings plan and a non-qualified excess savings plan in which certain employees of the Company participate.  In connection with the cash balance plan and excess cash balance plan, the Company is charged by Cablevision for credits made into an account established for each participant.  Such credits are based upon a percentage of eligible base pay and a market-based rate of return.  The Company also makes matching contributions for a portion of employee voluntary contributions to the 401(k) savings and excess savings plan.  Total expense related to these plans was $2,691, $2,120 and $1,401 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company does not provide postretirement benefits for any of its employees.
The Company is a single-member limited liability company, indirectly wholly-owned by Rainbow Media Enterprises, Inc. (RME), a taxable corporation.  RME, a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Rainbow Media Holdings.  As such, the Company is treated as a division of RME and is included in the consolidated income tax return of Cablevision for federal and state income tax purposes.  Accordingly, the income tax provision is determined on a stand-alone basis as if the Company filed separate consolidated income tax returns for the periods presented herein.
Income tax expense of the Company consists of the following components:
 
 
26
 
 
 
The income tax expense of the Company differs from the amount derived by applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income due principally to the effect of the following items:
The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of deferred tax assets or liabilities at December 31, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:
AMC LLC is treated as a partnership for income tax purposes.  Accordingly, the Company records deferred income taxes for the outside basis difference with regard to its investment in AMC LLC.
Deferred tax assets have resulted from the Companys future deductible temporary differences. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.  The Company's ability to realize its deferred tax assets depends upon the generation of sufficient future taxable income to allow for the realization of its deductible temporary differences.  If such estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets resulting in additional income tax expense in the Company's consolidated statement of income.  Management evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and the need for valuat ion allowances quarterly.  As of December 31, 2010, based on current facts and circumstances, management believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will fully realize the benefit associated with its gross deferred tax assets.
 
 
27
 
 
 
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of the unrecognized tax benefit associated with uncertain tax positions (excluding associated deferred tax benefits and accrued interest) is as follows:
As of December 31, 2010, if all uncertain tax positions were sustained at the amounts reported or expected to be reported in the Company's tax returns, the Company's income tax expense attributable to continuing operations would decrease by $6,515, excluding the related interest.
Interest expense of $470, net of the associated deferred tax benefit of $276, has been recognized during the year ended December 31, 2010 and is included in income tax expense in the consolidated statement of income.  At December 31, 2010, accrued interest on uncertain tax positions of $966 and $1,823 is included in other accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities, respectively, in the consolidated balance sheet.
In January 2011, the Company settled the city of New York audit with regard to the unincorporated business tax for the years 2003 through 2005 for an amount that approximated the related unrecognized tax benefit recorded as of December 31, 2010.
Management does not believe that the resolution of the ongoing income tax examinations will have a material adverse impact on the financial position of the Company or that it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefit will change significantly within twelve months of December 31, 2010.  Changes in the liabilities for uncertain tax positions will be recognized in the interim period in which the positions are effectively settled or there is a change in factual circumstances.
Broadcast Music, Inc. Matter
Broadcast Music, Inc. ("BMI"), an organization that licenses the performance of musical compositions of its members, has alleged that certain of the Company's subsidiaries require a license to exhibit musical compositions in its catalog. BMI agreed to interim fees based on revenues covering certain periods for certain subsidiaries. These matters were submitted to a Federal Rate Court.  The interim fees paid to BMI remain subject to retroactive adjustment until such time as either a final decision is made by the Federal Rate Court or an agreement is reached by the parties.  Subject to the execution of formal agreements, the parties have reached agreement in principle with respect to the license fees which approximates amounts previously accrued.
 
 
28
 
 
 
Other Legal Matters
In addition to the matter discussed above, the Company is party to various lawsuits and claims in the ordinary course of business.  Although the outcome of these other matters cannot be predicted with certainty and the impact of the final resolution of these other matters on the Company's results of operations in a particular subsequent reporting period is not known, management does not believe that the resolution of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company or the ability of the Company to meet its financial obligations as they become due.
Financial instruments that may potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade accounts receivable.  Cash is invested in money market funds and bank time deposits.  The Company monitors the financial institutions and money market funds where it invests its cash and cash equivalents with diversification among counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution.  The Company's emphasis is primarily on safety of principal and liquidity and secondarily on maximizing the yield on its investments.
The following individual customers accounted for the following percentages of the Companys net revenues for the years ended December 31,:
The following individual customers accounted for the following percentages of the Companys net trade receivable balances at December 31,:
 
 
29
 
 
 
The following is a summary of the Companys selected quarterly financial data for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
 
Proposed Distribution of Rainbow Media Holdings
On December 16, 2010, Cablevision announced that Cablevisions Board of Directors authorized Cablevision's management to move forward with the leveraged spin-off of Rainbow Media Holdings to Cablevision's stockholders (the "Rainbow Distribution"). The Rainbow Distribution would be structured as a tax-free pro rata distribution to stockholders of Cablevision and is expected to be completed by mid-year 2011, subject to necessary approvals.  As part of the Rainbow Distribution, a refinancing of what will be the new Rainbow Media Holdings would create new debt, a portion of which would be used to repay all outstanding Company debt and approximately $1,250,000 of Cablevision and/or CSC Holdings, LLC debt. It is anticipated that the Rainbow Distribution would be in the form of a pro rata distribution to all stockholders of Ca blevision, with holders of Cablevision New York Group (CNYG) Class A common stock receiving Class A shares in Rainbow Media Holdings and holders of CNYG Class B common stock receiving Class B shares in Rainbow Media Holdings. Both Cablevision and Rainbow Media Holdings would continue to be controlled by the Dolan family through their ownership of Class B shares.
The new Rainbow Media Holdings business will include:
 
 
 
30
 
 
 
Completion of the Rainbow Distribution is subject to a number of external conditions, including receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the filing and effectiveness of a Form 10 with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the finalization of the terms and conditions of the required financing, as well as final approval by Cablevision's Board of Directors. In late November 2010, Cablevision submitted a private letter ruling request to the IRS.
From January 1, 2011 through February 18, 2011, the Company repaid $20,000 of its outstanding balance under its revolving credit facility of $50,000 at December 31, 2010.  Amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility at December 31, 2010 have been classified in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as long-term as the amounts are not due until maturity on June 30, 2012.
 
 
(31)
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsfor the year ended December 31, 2010 is separately furnished by Rainbow National Services LLC and its subsidiaries ("RNS" and collectively with its subsidiaries, the "Company", "we", "us" or "our").
 
This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationscontains statements that constitute forward looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  In this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations there are statements concerning our future operating and future financial performance.  Words such as "expects", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "may", "will", "should", "could", "potential", "continue", "intends", "plans" and similar words and terms used in the discussion of future operating and future financial performance identify forward-looking statements.Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties and that actual results or developments may differ materially from the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.  Factors that may cause such differences to occur include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
We disclaim any obligation to update or revise the forward looking statements contained herein, except as otherwise required by applicable federal securities laws.
Overview
All dollar amounts and subscriber data, included in the following discussion are presented in thousands.
We provide television programming to cable television system operators, DBS operators and telephone companies (collectively referred to as operators) primarily throughout the United States.  We own three nationally distributed 24-hour entertainment programming networks:  AMC, WE tv and IFC.
Our future performance is dependent, to a large extent, on general economic conditions including the impact of direct competition, our ability to manage our businesses effectively, and our relative strength and leverage in the marketplace, both with suppliers and customers.
Continued capital and credit market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our products, such as lower levels of television advertising and increased incidence of our customer's inability to pay for the services we provide.  We have experienced some of the effects of this economic downturn.  Continuation of events such as these may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.
 
We earn revenues in two principal ways.  First, we receive affiliation payments from operators.  These revenues are generally on a per subscriber basis under multi-year contracts, commonly referred to as affiliation agreements. The specific affiliation fee revenues we earn vary from period to period, operator to operator and also vary among our networks, but are generally based upon the number of each operators subscribers who receive our programming, referred to as viewing subscribers.  The terms of certain affiliation agreements provide that the affiliation fee revenues we earn are a fixed contractual monthly fee.
 
The second principal source of revenues is from advertising.  Under our affiliation agreements, we have the right to sell a specific amount of national advertising time on our programming networks.  Our advertising revenues are more variable than affiliation fee revenues because most of our advertising is sold on a short-term basis, not under long-term contracts.  Also, most of our advertising revenues vary based upon the popularity of our programming as measured by a rating  service.
 
 
2
 
 
We seek to grow our revenues by increasing the number of viewing subscribers of the operators that carry our services.  We refer to this as our "penetration."  AMC, which is widely distributed, has less ability to increase its penetration than WE tv and IFC, which are not as widely distributed as AMC.  WE tv and IFC, although carried by all of the larger operators, have higher growth opportunities due to their current penetration levels with those operators.  IFC is currently carried primarily on digital tiers, while WE tv is carried on either analog expanded basic or digital tiers.  Therefore, WE tv and IFC penetration rates may increase if operators are successful in converting their analog subscribers to digital tiers of service that include those networks. Our revenues may also increase over time through contractual rate increases stipulated in most of our affiliation agreements.  In negotiating for increased or extended carriage, we may be subject to requests by operators to make upfront payments in exchange for additional subscribers and/or extended carriage, which we record as deferred carriage fees and which are amortized as a reduction to revenue over the period of the related affiliation agreements, or to waive for a specified period or accept lower per subscriber fees if certain additional subscribers are provided. We also may help fund the operators' efforts to market our channels. As we continue our efforts to add subscribers, our subscriber revenue may be negatively affected by subscriber acquisition fees (deferred carriage), discounted subscriber fees and other payments; however, we believe that these transactions generate a positive return on investment over the contract period.  We seek to increase our advertising revenues by increasing the number of minutes of national advertising sold and by increasing the rates we charge for such advertising, but, ultimately, the level of our advertising revenues, in most cases, is directly related to the overall distribution of our programming, penetration of our services and the popularity (including within desirable demographic groups) of our services as measured by a rating service.
Our principal goals are to increase our affiliation fee revenues and our advertising revenues by increasing distribution and penetration of our services.  To do this, we must continue to contract for and produce high-quality, attractive programming.  One of our greatest challenges arises from the increasing concentration of subscribers in the hands of a few operators, creating disparate bargaining power between the largest operators and us.  This increased concentration could adversely affect our ability to increase the penetration of our services or even result in decreased penetration.  In addition, this concentration gives those operators greater leverage in negotiating the price and other terms of affiliation agreements.
The following individual customers accounted for the following percentages of the Companys net revenues for the years ended December 31,:
The following individual customers accounted for the following percentages of net trade receivable balances at December 31,:
 
3
 
 
As a result of this concentration, the potential impact of a loss of any one of our major affiliate relationships would have a significant adverse impact on our business.
The Company classifies its operations into one reportable segment.  The previous reportable segments, AMC Networks (which comprises AMC and WE tv) and IFC, no longer qualify to be presented as two separate reportable segments as those operations are now included in one operating segment as the Companys Chief Operating Decision Maker reviews the operating results of these businesses on a combined basis as of December 2010.
Critical Accounting Policies
In preparing its financial statements, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that it believes are reasonable based upon the information available.  These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented.  The significant accounting policies which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following:
Impairment of Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets:
The Companys long-lived and indefinite-lived assets at December 31, 2010 include goodwill of $51,309, other intangible assets of $120,231, property and equipment, net of $18,034 and long-term program rights of $581,107.  Such assets accounted for approximately 57% of the Companys consolidated total assets.  Goodwill is tested annually for impairment during the first quarter (annual impairment test date) and upon the occurrence of certain events or substantive changes in circumstances.
In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 350-10, the Company is required to determine goodwill impairment using a two-step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill utilizing an enterprise-value based premise approach. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be recognized in a business combination.  For the purpose of evaluating goodwill impairment at the annual impairment test date, the Company had three reporting units.  These reporting units are AMC, WE tv and IFC.    Goodwill amounts at December 31, 2010 for AMC, WE tv and IFC are $32,513, $5,214 and $13,582, respectively.
For other long-lived assets, including intangible assets that are amortized, the Company evaluates assets for recoverability when there is an indication of potential impairment. If the undiscounted cash flows from a group of assets being evaluated is less than the carrying value of that group of assets, the fair value of the asset group is determined and the carrying value of the asset group is written down to fair value.
 
 
4
 
 
In assessing the recoverability of the Company's goodwill and other long-lived assets, the Company must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether an impairment charge is recognized and also the magnitude of any such charge.  Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant information.  These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgments and therefore cannot be determined with precision.  Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.  Estimates of fair value are primarily determined using discounted cash flows and comparable market transactio ns. These valuations are based on estimates and assumptions including projected future cash flows, discount rate, determination of appropriate market comparables and determination of whether a premium or discount should be applied to comparables. These valuations also include assumptions for the projected number of subscribers and the projected average rates per basic and viewing subscribers and growth in fixed price contractual arrangements used to determine affiliation fee revenues, access to program rights and the cost of such program rights, amount of programming time that is advertiser supported, number of advertising spots available and the sell through rates for those spots, average fee per advertising spot, and operating margins, among other assumptions. If these estimates or material related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges related to our long-lived assets.
 
Based on the Companys annual impairment test during the first quarter of 2010, the Companys reporting units had significant safety margins, representing the excess of the estimated fair value of each reporting unit less its respective carrying value (including goodwill allocated to each respective reporting unit).  In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the estimated fair value calculations of the Company's reporting units on the annual impairment calculation for goodwill, the Company applied a hypothetical 30% decrease to the estimated fair values of each reporting unit.  This hypothetical decrease would have no impact on the goodwill impairment analysis for any of the Company's reporting units.
Useful Lives of Finite-Lived Intangible Assets
The Company has recognized intangible assets for affiliation agreements and affiliate relationships, advertiser relationships and other intangible assets as a result of purchase accounting.  The Company has determined that such intangible assets have finite lives.  The estimated useful lives and net carrying values of these intangible assets at December 31, 2010 are as follows:
The useful lives for the affiliation agreements and affiliate relationships were determined based upon an analysis of the weighted average remaining terms of existing agreements the Company had in place with its major customers at the time that purchase accounting was applied, plus an estimate for renewals of such agreements. The Company has been successful in renewing its major affiliation agreements and maintaining customer relationships in the past and believes it will be able to renew its major affiliation agreements and maintain those customer relationships in the future. However, it is possible that the Company will not successfully renew such agreements as they expire or that if it does, the net revenue earned may not equal or exceed the net revenue currently being earned, which could have a significant adverse impact on our bus iness. In light of these facts and circumstances, the Company has determined that an estimated useful life of 10 years for affiliation agreements and affiliate relationships is appropriate.
 
 
5
 
 
There have been periods when an existing affiliation agreement has expired and the parties have not finalized negotiations of either a renewal of that agreement or a new agreement for certain periods of time. In substantially all these instances, the affiliates continued to carry and pay for the service under oral or written interim agreements until execution of definitive replacement agreements or renewals.
 
If an affiliate were to cease carrying a service on an other than temporary basis, the Company would record an impairment charge for the then remaining carrying value of that affiliation agreement and affiliate relationship intangible asset.  If the Company were to renew an affiliation agreement at rates that produced materially less net revenue compared to the net revenue produced under the previous agreement, the Company would evaluate the impact on its cash flows and, if necessary, would further evaluate such indication of potential impairment by following the policy described above under "Impairment of Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets" for the asset group containing that intangible asset. The Company also would evaluate whether the remaining useful life of the affiliation agreement and affiliate relationship remaine d appropriate. Based on December 31, 2010 carrying values, if the estimated life of all affiliation agreements and affiliate relationships were shortened by 10%, the effect on amortization for the year ending December 31, 2011 would be to increase our annual amortization expense by approximately $4,901.
 
Program Rights and Related Obligations
Rights to programming, including feature films and episodic series, acquired under license agreements are stated at the lower of amortized costs or net realizable value.  Such licensed rights along with the related obligations are recorded at the contract value when a license agreement is executed, unless there is uncertainty with respect to either cost, acceptability or availability.  If such uncertainty exists, those rights and obligations are recorded at the earlier of when the uncertainty is resolved or when the license period begins.  Costs are amortized to technical and operating expense on a straight-line basis over the respective license periods. 
Our owned original programming is primarily produced by independent production companies, with the remainder produced by us.  Owned original programming costs, including estimated participation and residual costs, qualifying for capitalization as program rights are amortized to technical and operating expense over their estimated useful lives, commencing upon the first airing, based on attributable revenue for airings to date as a percentage of total projected attributable revenue.  Projected program usage is based on the historical performance of similar content.  Estimated attributable revenue can change based upon programming market acceptance, levels of affiliation fee revenue and advertising revenue, and program usage.  Accordingly, we periodically review revenue estimates and planned usage and revise our assumptions if necessary which could impact the timing of amortization expenses or result in an impairment charge.
 
 
6
 
 
We periodically review the programming usefulness of our licensed and owned original program rights based on a series of factors, including ratings, type and quality of program material, standards and practices, and fitness for exhibition.  If it is determined that film or other program rights have no future programming usefulness, a write-off of the unamortized cost is recorded in technical and operating expense.  Impairment charges of $1,053 and $7,178 were recorded for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.  There were no impairment charges recorded in the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
Cautionary Note Concerning Historical Financial Statements
Our financial information does not necessarily reflect what our results of operations and financial position would have been if we had operated as an entity separate from Cablevision Systems Corporation, our indirect parent, during the periods presented herein.
 
 
7
 
Results of Operations
The following table sets forth on a historical basis certain items related to operations as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DATA
The following is a reconciliation of operating income to Adjusted Operating Cash Flow (AOCF):
 
8
 
 
The following is a reconciliation of operating income to AOCF:
 
9
 
 
Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2010 Versus Year Ended December 31, 2009
for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $100,862 (12%) as compared to revenues for the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
The increase in advertising/sponsorship revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year resulted principally at AMC and WE tv due to higher pricing, and to a lesser extent increases at IFC.  The increase in affiliation fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year is due to contractual increases in affiliation rates and increases in the number of our subscribers (see table below).  The increase in other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year resulted principally at AMC due to increased foreign licensing revenues and digital download revenues.
_______________
 
The Company believes the WE tv and IFC programming services may benefit from increaseddistribution, especially on the digital tiers of cable television system operators as digital penetration increases, and increased advertising revenues as cable networks, including ad-supported niche programming networks (such as WE tv), attract a greater advertising market share.  These increases could potentially be offset by lower net effective rates per viewing subscriber for our programming services due to the consolidation of operators and limited opportunities for increases in distribution in the United States for our substantially fully penetrated AMC programming service.  Changes in the viewership ratings of our AMC and WE tv programming services may also significantly affect future advertising revenues.
 
include primarily amortization of program rights, including those for feature films and non-film programming, participation and residual costs, and distribution and production related costs.  Depreciation and amortization expense of fixed assets and amortizable intangibles is not included in technical and operating expenses but is presented as a separate operating expense.
Technical and operating expenses
 
 
10
 
 
Technical and operating expenses for 2010 increased $44,549 (18%) compared to 2009.  The increase in technical and operating expenses is attributed to the following:
The increase in amortization of programming content costs and series development/original programming costs of $38,398 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in the prior year is due primarily to increased amortization of program rights at AMC and, to a lesser extent WE tv and IFC.  The increase in programming related costs resulted principally from increased presentation, interstitial and formatting related costs.
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased to 32% for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 30% for the year ended December 31, 2009.
There may be significant changes in the level of our expenses from quarter to quarter and/or changes from year to year due to content acquisitions and/or original programming costs.  As additional competition for programming increases from other programming services and alternate distribution technologies continue to develop in the industry, costs for content acquisitions and/or original programming may increase.
include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs and costs of facilities. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $14,810 (7%) for 2010 as compared to 2009.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Selling, general and administrative expenses
The increase in sales and marketing costs of $8,327 is primarily related to an increase in spending for the marketing and promotion of original programming in 2010 compared to 2009 at AMC resulting from an increase in the number of original programming premieres at AMC, partially offset by a decrease in such costs at IFC.  The increase in sales and marketing costs is also due to an increase in advertising sales related expenses at AMC and WE due to increased advertising sales revenues in 2010 compared to 2009.  Management fees increased due to the increased revenues of AMC and WE tv in 2010 compared to 2009.  Pursuant to an agreement with CSC Holdings LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cablevision, American Movie Classics Company LLC ("AMC LLC") and WE: Womens Entertainment LLC (WE LLC) pay a management fee of 3.5% of their revenues (as defined under the terms of the agreement) to CSC Holdings on a monthly basis.   If the Rainbow Distribution is consummated (see Other Matters below), we expect to terminate the agreement pursuant to which CSC Holdings receives a management fee from AMC LLC and WE LLC.
 
 
11
 
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 25% in 2010 compared to 27% in 2009.
There may be significant changes in the level of our selling, general and administrative expenses from quarter to quarter and year to year due to the timing of promotion and marketing of original programming and the number of premieres that occur during a quarter.
decreased $728 (1%) for 2010 as compared to 2009 due to a decrease in amortization expense of $777 due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in the second quarter of 2009, partially offset by an increase in depreciation expense of $49.
Depreciation and amortization
decreased $1,867 (2%) during 2010 compared to 2009. The net decrease was attributable to the following:
Net interest expense
was $(3,237) for the year ended December 31, 2009.  The interest rate swap contracts effectively fixed the borrowing rates on a substantial portion of the Companys floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates.  The loss on interest rate swap contracts resulted from a shift in the yield curve over the life of the swap contracts.  The interest rate swap contracts matured in November 2009.
Loss on derivative contracts
 
of $98,515 for the year ended December 31, 2010 resulted primarily from pretax income, the impact of state income taxes, non-deductible expenses, a tax expense of $1,639, including accrued interest and the related deferred tax benefits, relating to uncertain tax positions and tax expense of $419 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to determine deferred taxes.
Income tax expense
Income tax expense of $79,611 for the year ended December 31, 2009 resulted primarily from pretax income, the impact of state income taxes, non-deductible expenses, a tax expense of $3,316, including accrued interest and the related deferred tax benefits, relating to uncertain tax positions and tax benefit of $2,763 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to determine deferred taxes.
increased $42,670 in 2010 compared to 2009 due to an increase in revenues, net of $100,862, partially offset by an increase in technical and operating expense of $44,549 resulting primarily from an increase in amortization of program rights expense and an increase in selling general and administrative expense of $13,643 resulting primarily from an increase in the number of original programming premieres, excluding share-based compensation expense, as further discussed above.
Adjusted operating cash flow
 
 
12
 
 
Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2009 Versus Year Ended December 31, 2008
for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $73,931 (10%) as compared to revenues for the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
The increase in advertising/sponsorship revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the prior year resulted principally from higher units sold at AMC and improved program ratings at WE tv.  The increase in affiliation fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the prior year is due to increases in affiliation rates and increases in the number of our subscribers (see table below).
_______________
include primarily amortization of program rights, including those for feature films and non-film programming, participation and residual costs and distribution and production related costs.  Depreciation and amortization expense of fixed assets and amortizable intangibles is not included in technical and operating expenses but is presented as a separate operating expense.
Technical and operating expenses
Technical and operating expenses for 2009 increased $35,793 (17%) compared to 2008.  The increase in technical and operating expenses is attributed to the following:
The increase in amortization of programming content costs and series development/original programming costs for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in the prior year is due primarily to increased amortization of non-film program rights at AMC and WE tv.  The increase in programming related costs is due primarily to increased interstitial programming costs and high-definition formatting costs at AMC.
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses increased to 30% for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 28% for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
 
13
 
include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs and costs of facilities. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $10,068 (5%) for 2009 as compared to 2008.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Selling, general and administrative expenses
The decrease in sales and marketing costs is primarily related to a decrease in marketing and promotion of original programming in 2009 compared to 2008 at IFC, AMC and WE tv, partially offset by an increase in advertising sales related expenses at AMC and WE tv due to increased advertising sales revenues in 2009 compared to 2008.  The increase in other general and administrative costs is due primarily to increased parent company allocations of $4,072 and rent related expenses of $1,830.  Management fees increased due to the increased revenues of AMC and WE tv in 2009 compared to 2008.
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 27% in 2009 compared to 28% in 2008.
of $92 for the year ended December 31, 2008 represents the allocation of severance charges from the Companys indirect parent resulting from the elimination of certain staff positions due to the consolidation and reorganization of certain departments at the parent company for which the costs of such departments are partially allocated to the Company.
Restructuring expense
decreased $1,731 (3%) for 2009 as compared to 2008 due to a decrease in amortization expense of $1,500 due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in the second quarter of 2009 in addition to a decrease in depreciation of $231 relating to certain fixed assets becoming fully depreciated.
Depreciation and amortization
decreased $14,167 (16%) during 2009 compared to 2008. The net decrease was attributable to the following:
Net interest expense
was $(3,237) compared to $(2,843) for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  The interest rate swap contracts effectively fixed the borrowing rates on a substantial portion of the Companys floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates.  The loss on interest rate swap contracts resulted from a shift in the yield curve over the life of the swap contracts.  The interest rate swap contracts matured in November 2009.
Loss on derivative contracts
 
 
 
14
 
of $79,611 for the year ended December 31, 2009 resulted primarily from pretax income, the impact of state income taxes, non-deductible expenses, a tax expense of $3,316, including accrued interest and the related deferred tax benefits, relating to uncertain tax positions and tax benefit of $2,763 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to determine deferred taxes.
Income tax expense
Income tax expense of $66,414 for the year ended December 31, 2008 resulted primarily from pretax income, the impact of state income taxes, non-deductible expenses, a tax expense of $1,706, including accrued interest and the related deferred tax benefits, relating to uncertain tax positions and tax expense of $522 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to determine deferred taxes.
increased $30,824 in 2009 compared to 2008 due to an increase in revenues, net of $73,931, partially offset by an increase in technical and operating expense of $35,793 and an increase in selling general and administrative expense of $7,314 in 2009 compared to 2008, excluding share-based compensation expense, as further discussed above.
Adjusted operating cash flow
CASH FLOW DISCUSSION
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $284,232 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $238,865 for the year ended December 31, 2009.  The 2010 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $559,307 of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items and an increase in cash due to a decrease in net other assets totaling $5,147, partially offset by the acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to program rights totaling $278,221 and deferred carriage fee payments of $2,001.
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $238,865 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $122,518 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  The 2009 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $475,960 of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items and an increase in cash due to an increase in accounts payable to affiliates of $5,805, partially offset by the acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to program rights totaling $231,350, deferred carriage fee payments of $2,583 and an increase in net other assets totaling $8,967.
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $122,518 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  The 2008 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $401,472 of income before depreciation and amortization and non-cash items, partially offset by the acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to program rights totaling $203,916, deferred carriage fee payments of $18,874, an increase in accounts receivable, trade and accounts receivable from affiliates, net of $13,395, and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $20,494, a decrease in accounts payable to affiliates, net of $14,750 and a decrease in net other liabilities totaling $7,525.
 
 
15
 
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $1,652, $3,004 and $5,119, respectively, which consisted primarily of capital expenditures for the purchase of technical equipment for the transmission of our networks in high-definition.
 
Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $228,803 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $224,688 for the year ended December 31, 2009.  In 2010, financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $123,000, repayment of credit facility debt of $105,000 and principal payments on capital leases of $803.
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $224,688 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $155,889 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  In 2009, financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $104,000, repayment of credit facility debt of $120,000 and principal payments on capital leases of $688.
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $155,889 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  In 2008, financing activities consisted of capital distributions to our parent of $352,250, repayment of credit facility debt of $76,000, payment of financing costs of $2,941 associated with a new incremental revolver supplement entered into in June 2008 and principal payments on capital leases of $698, partially offset by proceeds from credit facility debt of $276,000.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Overview
The operations of the businesses that are included in our consolidated financial statements collectively have historically generated positive cash flow from operating activities.  However, each of our programming businesses has substantial programming, acquisition and development expenditure requirements.
We generated positive net cash from operating activities for each of the three years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.  Sources of cash include primarily cash flow from the operations of our businesses and borrowings under our revolving credit facilities.  Our principal uses of cash include:  our debt service and the net funding and investment requirements of other programming services that we do not own.  In connection with the proposed distribution of Rainbow Media Holdings LLC (RMH) from Cablevision announced on December 16, 2010 (see below), we are no longer funding the operations of those businesses that will not be part of the distribution.  We currently expect our net funding and investment requirements for the next twelve months, including term loan repayment s aggregating $50,000, will be met with one or more of the following:  our cash on hand, cash generated by our operating activities and available borrowings under credit facilities.  Our decision as to the use of cash on hand, cash generated from operating activities and borrowings under our bank credit facilities will be based upon an ongoing review of the funding needs of the business, the optimal allocation of cash resources, the timing of cash flow generation and the cost of borrowing under our bank credit facilities.  Moreover, we will monitor the credit markets and may seek opportunities to issue debt, the proceeds of which could be used to fund cash requirements or make distributions to CSC Holdings or other Rainbow businesses that we do not own.  We have accessed the debt markets for significant amounts of capital in the past and may do so in the future.During the year ended December 31, 2 010, we distributed $123,000 to Rainbow Programming Holdings LLC (RPH), our direct parent, tofund certain other programming services that we do not own.
 
 
 
 
16
 
We have assessed the implications of the volatility in the capital and credit markets on our ability to meet our net funding and investment requirements over the next twelve months and we believe that a combination of cash-on-hand, cash generated from operating activities and availability under our revolving credit facilities should provide us with sufficient liquidity. However, additional market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our services, such as lower levels of advertising.  These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.  Although we currently believe that amounts available under our revolving credit facilities will be available when, and if needed, we can provide no assurance that access to such funds will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. The obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facilities are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others.
The following table summarizes our outstanding debt, including capital lease obligations, interest expense and capital expenditures as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010:
Total amounts payable by the Company in connection with its outstanding obligations during the five years subsequent to December 31, 2010 and thereafter, including capital leases with affiliates and non-affiliates and related interest, as of December 31, 2010 are as follows:
Debt Financing Agreements
We have an $800,000 senior secured credit facility (the Credit Facility), which consists of a $500,000 term A loan facility and a $300,000 revolving credit facility.  The term A loan facility matures June 30, 2013 and the revolving credit facility matures June 30, 2012.  The Credit Facility allows us to utilize up to $50,000 of the revolving credit facility for letters of credit and up to $5,000 for a swing loan.  Further, the Credit Facility provides for an incremental facility of up to $925,000, provided that it be for a minimum amount of $100,000.  On June 3, 2008, we entered into an Incremental Revolver Supplement (Incremental Revolver) whereby we received commitments from lenders in the amount of $280,000.  The interest rate under the Incremental Revolve r is 2.0% over the Eurodollar rate for Eurodollar-based borrowings and 1.0% over the Base Rate for Base Rate borrowings (as defined in the Incremental Revolver).  Terms and conditions of the Incremental Revolver are no more restrictive than those of our Credit Facility.  Borrowings under the Incremental Revolver may be repaid without penalty at any time.  There were no borrowings outstanding under the Incremental Revolver facility at December 31, 2010.
 
 
17
 
Outstanding borrowings under our term A loan facility and the original revolving credit facility were $425,000 and $50,000, respectively, at December 31, 2010.  At December 31, 2010, the weighted average interest rate on both the term A loan facility and amounts drawn under the original revolving credit facility was 1.26%.  As of December 31, 2010, $50,000 of the revolving credit facility was drawn and we had $530,000 in total undrawn revolver commitments consisting of $250,000 under our original revolver and $280,000 under the Incremental Revolver, which undrawn amounts were available to be drawn to meet our net funding and investment requirements.  The borrowings under the Credit Facility may be repaid without penalty at any time.  We are obligated to pay fees of 0.375% per annum on any undrawn revolver commitment.
Borrowings under the Credit Facility are our direct obligations which are guaranteed jointly and severally by substantially all of our subsidiaries and by RPH, our direct parent.  Such borrowings are secured by the pledge of our stock and the stock of substantially all of our subsidiaries and all of our other assets and the assets of substantially all of our subsidiaries (subject to certain limited exceptions).  The term A loan requires quarterly repayments of $12,500 in 2011 and 2012 and $162,500 on March 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013, the maturity of the term A loan.  Any amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facilities are due at maturity on June 30, 2012.
The Credit Facility contains various financial and other covenants.  As defined in the Credit Facility, the financial covenants consist of (i) a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to total interest expense for each quarter of 1.75 to 1, (ii) a maximum cash flow ratio of total indebtedness to operating cash flow of 6.25 to 1, and (iii) a maximum senior secured leverage ratio of senior secured debt to operating cash flow of 5.50 to 1.  Additional covenants include restrictions on indebtedness, guarantees, liens, investments, dividends and distributions and transactions with affiliates.
We were in compliance with all of our financial covenants under our Credit Facility and our Incremental Revolver as of December 31, 2010.
As of December 31, 2010, we also have outstanding $300,000 principal amount of 8 3/4% senior notes due September 1, 2012 and $325,000 principal amount of 10 3/8% senior subordinated notes due September 1, 2014.  These notes are guaranteed by substantially all of our subsidiaries. 
The indentures under which the senior notes and the senior subordinated notes were issued contain various other covenants, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the Credit Facility.
 
 
18
 
Other Matters
Proposed Distribution of Rainbow Media Holdings
On December 16, 2010, Cablevision announced that Cablevisions Board of Directors  authorized Cablevision's management to move forward with the leveraged spin-off of Rainbow Media Holdings to Cablevision's stockholders (the "Rainbow Distribution"). The Rainbow Distribution would be structured as a tax-free pro rata distribution to stockholders of Cablevision and is expected to be completed by mid-year 2011, subject to necessary approvals.  As part of the Rainbow Distribution, a refinancing of what will be the new Rainbow Media Holdings would create new debt, a portion of which would be used to repay all outstanding Company debt and approximately $1,250,000 of Cablevision and/or CSC Holdings, LLC debt. It is anticipated that the Rainbow Distribution would be in the form of a pro rata distribution to all stockho lders of Cablevision, with holders of Cablevision New York Group (CNYG) Class A common stock receiving Class A shares in Rainbow Media Holdings and holders of CNYG Class B common stock receiving Class B shares in Rainbow Media Holdings. Both Cablevision and Rainbow Media Holdings would continue to be controlled by the Dolan family through their ownership of Class B shares.
The new Rainbow Media Holdings' business will include:
Completion of the Rainbow Distribution is subject to a number of external conditions, including receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the filing and effectiveness of a Form 10 with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the finalization of the terms and conditions of the required financing, as well as final approval by Cablevision's Board of Directors. In late November 2010, Cablevision submitted a private letter ruling request to the IRS.
Revolving Credit Facility
From January 1, 2011 through February 18, 2011, we repaid $20,000 of our outstanding balance under our revolving credit facility of $50,000 at December 31, 2010.  Amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility at December 31, 2010 have been classified in the consolidated balance sheet as long-term as the amounts are not due until maturity on June 30, 2012.
 
 
19
 
 
Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Commitments
The Company's contractual obligations to affiliates and non-affiliates as of December 31, 2010, which consist primarily of our debt obligations, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods, are summarized in the following table:
See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our long-term debt.  See note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our leases.  See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our program rights obligations.
Interest Rate Risk
To manage interest rate risk, we enter into interest rate swap contracts from time to time to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable interest rates.  Such contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates.  We do not enter into interest rate swap contracts for speculative or trading purposes and we only enter into interest rate swap contracts with financial institutions that are rated investment grade.  We monitor the financial institutions that are counterparties to our interest rate swap contracts and diversify our swap contracts among various counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution.  There were no outstanding interest rate swap contracts as of December 31, 2010.
 
 
20
 
Interest rate risk is primarily a result of exposures to changes in the level, slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates and credit spreads.
All interest rate swap contracts are carried at their fair values on our consolidated balance sheets, with changes in value reflected in the consolidated statements of income.
As of December 31, 2010, we have $1,098,623 of debt outstanding, of which $475,000 outstanding under our Credit Facility is subject to variable interest rates.  The effect of a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates prevailing at December 31, 2010 could have an adverse affect on our annual interest expense of approximately $5,000.
Fair Value of Debt
Based on the level of interest rates prevailing at December 31, 2010, the fair value of our fixed rate debt of $637,938 was more than its carrying value of $623,623 by $14,315.  The fair value of these financial instruments is estimated based on reference to quoted market prices for these or comparable securities.  The effect of a hypothetical 100 basis point decrease in interest rates prevailing at December 31, 2010 would increase the estimated fair value of our fixed rate debt by approximately $6,800 to $644,738.  This estimate is based on the assumption of an immediate and parallel shift in interest rates across all maturities.
Our floating rate borrowings bear interest in reference to current LIBOR-based market rates and thus their carrying values approximate fair value.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
In December 2010, the issued No. 2010-28, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts.  ASU No. 2010-28 modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist.  ASU No. 2010-28 will be effective for the Company on January 1, 2011.  Early adoption is not permitted.  The adoption of ASU No. 2010-28 will have no impact on our financial statements.
Financial Accounting Standards Board
("FASB")
Accounting Standards Update ("ASU")
he FASB issued ASU No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements  ASU No. 2010-06 outlines certain new disclosures and clarifies some existing disclosure requirements about fair value measurement as set forth in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820-10.  ASU No. 2010-06 amends ASC Topic 820-10 to now require that (a) a reporting entity disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and describe the reasons for the transfers; and (b) in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using signi ficant unobservable inputs, a reporting entity should present separately information about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements.  In addition, ASU No. 2010-06 clarifies existing disclosures on (a) how a reporting entity should provide fair value measurement disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities, and (b) how a reporting entity should provide disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements.  ASU No. 2010-06 became effective in 2010, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements.  These disclosures will be effective in the first quarter of 2011.  We will provide the additional required disclosures pursuant to the guidance under ASU No. 2010-06 when applicable.
In January 2010, t
.
 
In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-13, Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which provides amendments that (a) update the criteria for separating consideration in multiple-deliverable arrangements, (b) establish a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable, and (c) replace the term "fair value" in the revenue allocation guidance with the term "selling price" to clarify that the allocation of revenue is based on entity-specific assumptions.  ASU No. 2009-13 eliminates the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration to deliverables, requires the use of the relative selling price method and requires that a vendor determine its best estimate of selling price in a manner consistent with that used to determine the price to sell the deliverable on a standalone basis.  ASU No. 2009-13 requires a vendor to significantly expand the disclosures related to multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements with the objective to provide information about the significant judgments made and changes to those judgments and how the application of the relative selling-price method affects the timing or amount of revenue recognition.  ASU No. 2009-13 is required to be adopted on a prospective basis to revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified on or after January 1, 2011.
 
 
21
 
 
*  Amounts in 2010 and 2009 represent primarily the write-off of trade receivables following the filing of bankruptcy of certain advertisers and a cable operator.  Amounts in 2008 represent primarily the write-off of trade receivables from a cable system operator that had previously been fully reserved and the write-off of certain uncollectible advertising receivables.
 
 
22


