FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20110311171829.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01.
Other Events.
On March 10, 2010, Cablevision Systems Corporation announced that it continues to move forward with its previously-announced spin-off of its Rainbow Media business. Josh Sapan, who has served as a senior executive of Rainbow Media since 1991, will serve as president and chief executive officer of the new public company, and it will be named AMC Networks Inc.
The new AMC Networks Inc. will include national programming networks AMC, WE tv, IFC, and Sundance Channel; AMC/Sundance Channel Global, the company's international programming business; IFC Entertainment, an independent film business that consists of multiple brands; and AMC Network Communications (formerly Rainbow Network Communications), a full service network programming origination and distribution company.
A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
     99.1   Press Release dated March 10, 2011.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 11, 2011
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 11, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS FROM
 Cablevision Systems Corporation (NYSE: CVC) continues to move forward with the spin-off of its Rainbow Media business. The company announced today that longtime Rainbow Media executive Josh Sapan will become president and chief executive officer of the new public company, and that it will be named AMC Networks Inc., following the spin-off.
Bethpage, N.Y., March 10, 2011
In making the announcement, Cablevision President and CEO James L. Dolan stated: "Much of the success of Rainbow over the past quarter century is due in no small part to Josh Sapan. He has guided Rainbow's growth for more than 20 years, overseeing the creation of some of the world's most compelling television brands, and is the ideal executive to provide the leadership necessary as a new AMC Networks becomes a public company."
The new AMC Networks Inc. will include national programming networks AMC, WE tv, IFC, and Sundance Channel; AMC/Sundance Global, the company's international programming business; IFC Entertainment, an independent film business that consists of multiple brands; and AMC Network Communications (formerly Rainbow Network Communications), a full service network programming origination and distribution company.
In introducing the new name, Mr. Sapan stated: "Rainbow owns and operates some of cable television's most admired networks, and over the past three decades, AMC has become one of the most established of those brands, recognized by consumers, advertisers and investors alike. As we move forward, we want to capitalize on that strong brand awareness for what will be our new public company."
The leveraged transaction would be structured as a tax-free pro rata spin-off to Cablevision stockholders and is expected to be completed by mid-year 2011. Completion of the spin-off is subject to a number of external conditions, including receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, the filing and effectiveness of a Form 10 with the SEC and the finalization of the terms and conditions of the required financing, as well as final approval by Cablevision's board of directors.
Cablevision Systems Corporation (NYSE: CVC) is one of the nation's leading media and entertainment companies.
This press release contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including financial community and rating agency perceptions of the company and its business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which it operates and the factors described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained therein. The Company disclaims any obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained herein.


