FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20111031082907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
This Form 8-K hereby amends the combined Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 as separately filed by Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, LLC (collectively with Cablevision, the Company), as originally filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on February 16, 2011 (the Original Filing) to retrospectively reclassify the assets and liabilities of AMC Networks Inc. (AMC Networks), a company which consists principally of national programming networks, including AMC, WE tv, IFC and Sundance Channel, and other services which consist primarily of AMC/Sundance Channel Global, an international programming business, IFC Entertainment, an independent film distribution business, and AMC Networks Broadcasting & Technology (formerly Rainbow Network Communications), a network technical services business, previously owned and operated by the Company's Rainbow segment as assets and liabilities distributed to shareholders/sole member on the consolidated balance sheets and as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for all periods presented.  All assets and liabilities distributed to shareholders/sole member are excluded from the footnotes unless otherwise noted.  Amounts due to or due from AMC Networks that were previously eliminated in consolidation are now being presented as a component of accounts payable to affiliates or advances to affiliates on the Companys consolidated balance sheets for all periods presented.  See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  This update is consistent with the presentation of continuing and discontinued operations included in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the second and third quarter ended June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011, respectively.  The distribution of AMC Networks was completed on June 30, 2011.
This Form 8-K only amends and reclassifies Item 6, 7 and 8 and 15(a)(2) of the Original Filing, in each case, solely as a result of, and to reflect the reclassifications discussed above, and no other Items in the Original Filing are amended hereby.  The presentation of AMC Networks as a discontinued operation affects only the manner in which certain financial information was previously reported. We have not restated or revised the Companys net income (loss) in any previously reported financial statements.
More current information is contained in the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the Company's Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011, respectively.  This Form 8-K should be read in conjunction with the Company's Original Filing, the aforementioned Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our other SEC filings which contain important information regarding events and developments that have occurred since the filing of the Original Filing.
In addition, pursuant to rules of the SEC, Item 15 of Part IV of the Original Filing has been amended to contain the consents of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm.  The consents of the Companys independent registered public accounting firm are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.4 and Exhibit 99.5.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 31
, 2011
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 31
, 2011
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The operating and balance sheet data included in the following selected financial data have been derived from the consolidated financial statements of Cablevision and CSC Holdings.  The selected financial data presented below should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements of Cablevision and CSC Holdings and the notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Report.
:
Operating Data
_____________
 
(1)
 
 
 
______________
 
(2)
 
 
______________
 
(3)
 
 
:
Balance Sheet Data
 
 
(4)
 
:
Statistical Data (Unaudited)
______________
 
(5)

Exhibit 99.2
This Form 10-K contains statements that constitute forward looking information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  In this Form 10-K there are statements concerning our future operating and future financial performance.  Words such as "expects", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "may", "will", "should", "could", "potential", "continue", "intends", "plans" and similar words and terms used in the discussion of future operating and future financial performance identify forward-looking statements.  Investors are cautioned that such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties and that actual results or developments may differ materially from the forward looking statements as a result of various factors.  Factors that may cause such differences to occur include, but are not limited to:
We disclaim any obligation to update or revise the forward looking statements contained herein, except as otherwise required by applicable federal securities laws.
 
(1)
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
All dollar amounts, except per subscriber, per unit, per share data, and tender prices per note, included in the following discussion under this Item 7, are presented in thousands.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Summary
Our future performance is dependent, to a large extent, on general economic conditions including capital and credit market conditions, the impact of direct competition, our ability to manage our businesses effectively, and our relative strength and leverage in the marketplace, both with suppliers and customers.
Continued capital and credit market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our products, such as cable television services and entertainment, as well as lower levels of television and newspaper advertising, and increased incidence of customer's inability to pay for the services we provide.  We have experienced some of the effects of this economic downturn.  Continuation of events such as these may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.
On June 30, 2011, Cablevision distributed to its stockholders all of the outstanding common stock of  AMC Networks Inc., a company which consists principally of national programming networks, including AMC, WE tv, IFC and Sundance Channel, previously owned and operated by the Company's Rainbow segment (the "AMC Networks Distribution").  The AMC Networks Distribution took the form of a distribution by Cablevision of one share of AMC Networks Class A Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class A Common Stock held of record at the close of business in New York City on June 16, 2011 (the "AMC Networks Distribution Record Date") and one share of AMC Networks Class B Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class B Common Stock held of record on the AMC Networks Distribution Record Date.
Also, on February 9, 2010, Cablevision distributed to its stockholders all of the outstanding common stock of Madison Square Garden, a company which owns the sports, entertainment and media businesses previously owned and operated by the Company's Madison Square Garden segment.  The MSG Distribution took the form of a distribution by Cablevision of one share of Madison Square Garden Class A Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class A Common Stock held of record at the close of business in New York City on January 25, 2010 (the "MSG Distribution Record Date") and one share of Madison Square Garden Class B Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class B Common Stock held of record on the MSG Distribution Record Date.
As a result of the AMC Networks Distribution and MSG Distribution, the Company no longer consolidates the financial results of AMC Networks and Madison Square Garden for the purpose of its own financial reporting and the historical financial results of AMC Networks and Madison Square Garden have been reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
Telecommunications Services
Our Telecommunications Services segment, which accounted for 93% of our consolidated revenues, net of inter-segment eliminations, for the year ended December 31, 2010, derives revenues principally through monthly charges to subscribers of our video, high-speed data and voice services.  These monthly charges include fees for cable television programming, high-speed data and voice services, as well as, equipment rental, pay-per-view and video-on-demand.  Revenue increases are derived from rate increases, increases in the number of subscribers to these services, including additional services sold to our existing subscribers, upgrades by video customers in the level of programming package to which they subscribe, and .  Our ability to increase the number of subscribers to our services is significantly related to our penetration rates (the number of subscribers to our services as a percentage of homes passed).  As penetration rates increase, the number of available homes to which we can market our services generally decreases, which may contribute to a slower rate of customer and revenue growth in future periods. We also derive revenues from the sale of advertising time available on the programming carried on our cable television systems.  Programming costs are the most significant part of our operating expenses and are expected to continue to increase primarily as a result of contractual rate increases and additional service offerings.
Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") services and commercial data and
operations
acquisition transactions that result in the addition of new subscribers
 
 
(2)
 
Our cable television video services, which accounted for 53% of our consolidated revenues, net of inter-segment eliminations, for the year ended December 31, 2010, face competition from video service provided by incumbent telephone companies, DBS service providers and others.  As discussed in greater detail below, we face intense competition in our New York metropolitan service area from incumbent telephone companies Verizon and AT&T, which offer video programming in addition to their voice and high-speed Internet access services, evidencing their commitment to compete across all of the Company's telecommunications products.  To the extent the incumbent telephone companies, who have financial resources that exceed ours, decide to meet our pricing and/or features or reduce their pricing, our future growth may be negatively impacted.  There are two major providers of DBS service in the United States, each with significantly higher numbers of subscribers than we have.  We compete nationally with these DBS competitors by "bundling" our service offerings with products that the DBS companies cannot efficiently provide at this time, such as high-speed data service, voice service and interactive services carried over the cable distribution plant.  Historically, we have made substantial investments in the development of new and innovative programming options and other product enhancements for our customers as a way of differentiating ourselves from our competitors.  We likely will continue to do so in order to remain an effective competitor, which could increase our operating expenses and capital expenditures.
Verizon and AT&T offer video programming as well as voice and high-speed Internet access services to residential customers in our New York metropolitan service area.  Verizon has constructed fiber to the home network plant that passes a significant number of households in our New York metropolitan service area (currently approximately 40% of the households, according to our estimates).  Verizon has obtained authority to provide video service for a majority of these homes passed, on a statewide basis in New Jersey, in numerous local franchises in New York State, including all of New York City, and in a small portion of Connecticut.  AT&T offers such service in competition with us in most of our Connecticut service area.  This competition impacts our video revenue and our video revenue growth rates in these areas and may continue to do so in the future.
Our high-speed data services business, which accounted for 20% of our consolidated revenues, net of inter-segment eliminations, for the year ended December 31, 2010, faces intense competition from other providers of high-speed Internet access, including Verizon and AT&T in our New York metropolitan service area and Qwest in our Bresnan Cable service area.  Our growth rate in high-speed data customers and revenues in our New York metropolitan service area has slowed from the growth rates we have experienced in the past due to our high penetration in this service area (54.3% of homes passed at December 31, 2010).  Growth rates have also been negatively impacted, although to a lesser extent, by intense competition.  Accordingly, the growth rate of both customers and revenues may continue to slow in the future.  In addition, the regulatory framework for high-speed data service may affect our competitive position.
Our VoIP offering, which accounted for 13% of our consolidated revenues, net of inter-segment eliminations, for the year ended December 31, 2010, faces intense competition from other providers of voice services, including carriers such as Verizon and AT&T in the New York metropolitan service area and Qwest in our Bresnan Cable service area.  We compete primarily on the basis of pricing, where unlimited United States and Canada (including Puerto Rico in the New York metropolitan service area and the U.S. Virgin Islands in the Bresnan Cable service area) long distance, regional and local calling, together with certain features for which the incumbent providers charge extra, are offered at one low price.  Our growth rate in VoIP customers and revenues has slowed from the growth rates we have experienced in the past due to our increasing penetration in the New York metropolitan service area (43.8% of homes passed at December 31, 2010).  Growth rates have also been impacted, although to a lesser extent, by intense competition.  Accordingly, the growth rate of both customers and revenues may continue to slow in the future.  In addition, the regulatory framework for voice services may affect our competitive position.
 
(3)
 
The Telecommunications Services segment advertising and other revenues accounted for 2% of our consolidated revenues, net of inter-segment eliminations, for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Optimum Lightpath, which operates in our New York metropolitan area accounted for 4% of our consolidated revenues, net of inter-segment eliminations, for the year ended December 31, 2010.  Optimum Lightpath operates in the most competitive business telecommunications market in the country and competes against the very largest telecommunications companies - incumbent local exchange companies such as Verizon and AT&T, other competitive local exchange companies and long distance companies.  To the extent that dominant market leaders decide to reduce their prices, future success of our Optimum Lightpath business may be negatively impacted.  The trend in business communications has been shifting from a wired voice medium to a wireless data medium.  This trend could also negatively impact the future growth of Optimum Lightpath if it were to accelerate.
Other
Our Other segment includes the operations of (i) Newsday, which includes the Newsday daily newspaper, amNew York, Star Community Publishing Group, and online websites including newsday.com and exploreLI.com, (ii) our motion picture theater business ("Clearview Cinemas"), (iii) the News 12 Networks, our regional news programming services, (iv) the MSG Varsity network, our network dedicated entirely to showcasing high school sports and activities, (v) our cable television advertising company, Rainbow Advertising Sales Corporation ("RASCO"), and (vi) certain other businesses and unallocated corporate costs.
Newsday
Newsday's revenue is derived primarily from the sale of advertising and the sale of newspapers ("circulation revenue").  For the year ended December 31, 2010, advertising revenues accounted for 73% and circulation revenues accounted for approximately 26% of the total revenues of Newsday.  Newsday's circulation revenue is derived primarily from home delivery subscriptions of the Newsday daily newspaper, and single copy sales of Newsday at the newsstand or through local retail outlets.
Newsday's largest categories of operating expenses relate to the production and distribution of its print products.  These costs are driven by volume (number of newspapers printed and number of pages printed) and the number of pages printed are impacted by the volume of advertising and editorial page counts.  The majority of Newsday's other costs, such as editorial content creation, rent and general and administrative expenses do not directly fluctuate with changes in advertising and circulation revenue.
Newsday and the newspaper industry generally have experienced significant declines in advertising and circulation revenue as circulation and readership levels continue to be adversely affected by competition from new media news formats and less reliance on newspapers by some consumers, particularly younger consumers, as a source of news.  A prolonged decline in circulation levels would also have a material adverse effect on the rate and volume of advertising revenues.
 
(4)
 
Clearview Cinemas
Clearview Cinemas derives revenues primarily from box office ticket sales, concession stand sales, and, to a lesser extent, from advertising shown at the start of each performance and from venue rentals. Our ability to attract customers to our theaters is, to a large extent, dependent on our ability to obtain high quality film content at competitive pricing. To the extent other theater chains have greater leverage with producers and distributors of motion pictures, our ability to obtain such content at equivalent pricing will be hindered.
News 12 Networks
Our News 12 Networks, which include seven 24-hour local news channels and five traffic and weather services dedicated to covering areas within the New York metropolitan area, derives its revenues from the sale of advertising on its networks and affiliation fees paid by cable operators, principally Cablevision.
MSG Varsity
MSG Varsity, which launched in September 2009, is a network dedicated entirely to showcasing high school sports and activities.  One of the many compelling components of this programming service is the involvement of high schools throughout our footprint as co-producers of MSG Varsity's content, in addition to content created by our professional productions.  MSG Varsity is available to all subscribers throughout our footprint in the New York metropolitan area.
RASCO
RASCO is a cable television advertising company that sells local and regional commercial advertising time on cable television networks and offers advertisers the opportunity to target specific geographic and demographic audiences.
Critical Accounting Policies
In preparing its financial statements, the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that it believes are reasonable based upon the information available.  These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented.  The significant accounting policies, which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, include the following:
Impairment of Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets:
The Company's long-lived and indefinite-lived assets at December 31, 2010 include goodwill of $442,067, other intangible assets of $1,599,267 ($1,307,123 of which are indefinite-lived intangible assets), $3,361,590 of property, plant and equipment.  Such assets accounted for approximately 61% of the Company's consolidated total assets.  Goodwill and identifiable indefinite-lived intangible assets, which represent primarily the Company's cable television franchises, various trademarks and licenses, are tested annually for impairment during the first quarter ("annual impairment test date") and upon the occurrence of certain events or substantive changes in circumstances.
In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 350-10, the Company is required to determine goodwill impairment using a two-step process.  The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill utilizing an enterprise-value based premise approach.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any.  The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.  If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be recognized in a business combination.  For the purpose of evaluating goodwill impairment at the annual impairment test date, the Company had two reporting units containing approximately 89% of the Company's goodwill balance of $275,037.  These reporting units are the Consumer Services (cable television) reporting unit in the Telecommunications Services reportable segment ($234,290), and the Clearview Cinemas reporting unit in the Other reportable segment ($10,348).  Goodwill recorded in connection with the Company's acquisition of Bresnan Cable in December 2010 was not included in the annual impairment test during the first quarter (see Note 4).
 
(5)
 
The impairment test for identifiable indefinite-lived intangible assets is performed in accordance with the guidance outlined in ASC Topic 350-30, which consists of a comparison of the estimated fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value.  If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  The following table sets forth the amount of identifiable indefinite-lived intangible assets reported in the Company's consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010:
______________
For other long-lived assets, including intangible assets that are amortized, the Company evaluates assets for recoverability when there is an indication of potential impairment.  If the undiscounted cash flows from a group of assets being evaluated is less than the carrying value of that group of assets, the fair value of the asset group is determined and the carrying value of the asset group is written down to fair value.
In assessing the recoverability of the Company's goodwill and other long-lived assets, the Company must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets.  These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether an impairment charge is recognized and also the magnitude of any such charge.  Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant information.  These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgments and therefore cannot be determined with precision.  Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.  Estimates of fair value are primarily determined using discounted cash flows and comparable market transactions.  These valuations are based on estimates and assumptions including projected future cash flows, discount rate, determination of appropriate market comparables and determination of whether a premium or discount should be applied to comparables.  For the Telecommunications Services reportable segment, these valuations also include assumptions for average annual revenue per customer, number of homes passed, operating margin and market penetration as a percentage of homes passed, among other assumptions.  Further, the projected cash flow assumptions consider contractual relationships, customer attrition, eventual development of new technologies and market competition.  For Newsday, these valuations also include assumptions for advertising and circulation revenue trends, operating margin, market participant synergies, and market multiples for comparable companies.  If these estimates or material related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record additional impairment charges related to our long-lived assets.
 
(6)
 
Based on the Company's annual impairment test during the first quarter of 2010, the Company's reporting units had significant safety margins, representing the excess of the estimated fair value of each reporting unit less its respective carrying value (including goodwill allocated to each respective reporting unit).  In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the estimated fair value calculations of the Company's reporting units on the annual impairment calculation for goodwill, the Company applied hypothetical 10%, 20% and 30% decreases to the estimated fair values of each reporting unit.  These hypothetical decreases of 10%, 20% and 30% would have no impact on the goodwill impairment analysis for any of the Company's reporting units with the exception of the Clearview Cinemas reporting unit.  For Clearview Cinemas, which had a goodwill carrying value of $10,348 at December 31, 2010, a 26% reduction in its estimated fair value would result in a step one failure.  A step one failure would require the Company to perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of implied fair value of goodwill and, if required, the recognition of a goodwill impairment loss.
The Company's primary identifiable indefinite-lived intangible assets that represent over 95% of the identifiable indefinite-lived intangibles (excluding cable television franchise and FCC licenses identifiable indefinite-lived intangible assets acquired in connection with the Company's acquisition of Bresnan Cable in December 2010) are the Company's cable television franchises and various reporting unit trademarks, which are valued using an income approach or market approach.  The Company's cable television franchises are the largest of the Company's identifiable indefinite-lived intangible assets and reflect agreements we have with state and local governments that allow us to construct and operate a cable business within a specified geographic area.  Our cable television franchises are valued using a discounted cash flows ("DCF") methodology.  The DCF methodology used to value cable television franchises entails identifying the projected discrete cash flows related to such cable television franchises and discounting them back to the valuation date.  The projected discrete cash flows related to such cable television franchises represent the rights to solicit and the right to service potential customers in the service areas defined by franchise rights currently held by the Company.  Significant judgments inherent in a valuation include the selection of appropriate discount rates, estimating the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows attributable to the cable television franchises and identification of appropriate continuing growth rate assumptions.  The discount rates used in the DCF analysis are intended to reflect the risk inherent in the projected future cash flows generated by the respective intangible assets.
Based on the Company's annual impairment test during the first quarter of 2010, the Company's units of accounting that represent approximately 90% of the Company's identifiable indefinite-lived intangible assets have significant safety margins, representing the excess of the identifiable indefinite-lived intangible assets estimated fair value unit of accounting over their respective carrying values.  In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations of all the Company's identifiable indefinite-lived intangibles, the Company applied hypothetical 10%, 20% and 30% decreases to the estimated fair value of each of the Company's identifiable indefinite-lived intangibles.  These hypothetical 10%, 20% and 30% decreases in estimated fair value would not have resulted in an impairment of any of our identifiable indefinite-lived intangibles other than the Newsday related trademarks, which have a carrying value of $56,300.  The hypothetical fair value decreases would have resulted in impairment charges of approximately $5,000 at 10%, approximately $10,000 at 20%, and approximately $15,500 at 30% related primarily to the Newsday print newspaper trademark.  As of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Newsday indefinite-lived trademarks were written down to their estimated fair values (see discussion below).
 
(7)
 
The Company's impairment analysis of Newsday as of December 31, 2008 resulted in pre-tax impairment charges of $59,522, $8,199 and $333,159 related to identifiable indefinite-lived intangibles, certain long-lived intangible assets and goodwill, respectively, originally recorded by the Company in connection with its acquisition of Newsday on July 29, 2008.  The net $400,880 pre-tax impairment charges recorded in 2008 are included in depreciation and amortization (including impairments) and the Company recognized an income tax benefit of $164,080, in addition to the allocation of such pre-tax impairment charges to the noncontrolling interest owner's basis in those assets.  In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $7,800 and $2,000, respectively, relating to the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of Newsday's indefinite-lived intangible trademarks.
The Company determined the fair value of our Newsday reporting unit based on a weighting of the estimated fair values determined under the income approach and the market approach.  The income approach utilizes a DCF valuation methodology, which requires the exercise of significant judgments, including judgments about appropriate discount rates based on the assessment of risks inherent in the projected future cash flows including the cash flows generated from potential synergies a market participant may generate, the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, including expected cash flows beyond the Company's current long-term business planning period, and certain tax benefits the Company would recognize.  The discount rate utilized for the interim impairment assessment was a consolidated weighted average discount rate of 12%.  The market approach measures fair value using market multiples of various financial measures compared to a set of comparable publicly traded newspaper publishing companies and comparable transactions taking into consideration potential synergies a market participant may generate and requires significant judgments in determining comparable market multiples.  The weighting between the income approach and market approach was weighted more towards the income approach based on our belief that the income approach was more reliable in the midst of the steep economic decline impacting the publishing industry, and in view of the fact that there were no recent observable sales transactions involving the newspaper business.  The estimated fair values of Newsday's indefinite-lived intangibles, which relate primarily to the trademarks associated with its newspaper mastheads, were based on discounted future cash flows calculated based on the relief-from-royalty method.  Changes in such estimates or the application of alternative assumptions could produce significantly different results.
From the date of the acquisition of Newsday on July 29, 2008 through year-end 2008, there was a significant decrease in the estimated fair value of the Newsday reporting unit, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2008.  The reduction in estimated fair value under the income approach was primarily due to the decline in Newsday's projections of future revenue and cash flows.  In addition, the estimated fair value under the income approach was further reduced by the increase in the consolidated weighted average discount rate for the Newsday reporting unit from approximately 10% at July 29, 2008 to 12% at December 31, 2008.  The consolidated weighted average discount rate was based on an estimation of a market participant's cost of equity and debt, weighted by the relative percentages of equity and debt for comparable newspaper companies.  The increase in the consolidated weighted average discount rate for the Newsday reporting unit from 10% to 12% was due to an increase in both the estimated cost of equity and debt for the industry, which was primarily due to  an increase in the economic volatility affecting the overall economy, and in particular the newspaper publishing industry, and an increase in borrowing costs for the industry.  Since the acquisition of the Newsday reporting unit on July 29, 2008, there also has been a reduction in the estimated fair value under the market approach.  Approximately two-thirds of this reduction was primarily due to a decline in market multiples and approximately one-third of the reduction was due to a decline in Newsday's projections of future revenue and cash flows.  The Company impaired 100% of its basis in the goodwill balance of the Newsday reporting unit as of December 31, 2008.
Subsequent to the acquisition of the Newsday reporting unit on July 29, 2008, the reduction in estimated fair values of the trademarks under the relief-from-royalty method was primarily due to a reduction of the assumed royalty rate from 4% in 2008 to 3% in 2009 and 2010 for the Newsday print newspaper and newsday.com trademarks, an increase in the discount rate for the Newsday print newspaper from 9.0% in 2008 to 11.5% in 2009 and 12.0% in 2010, and a decline in the Company's revenue projections for the Newsday print newspaper and newsday.com in comparison to the revenue projections at July 29, 2008.  The primary reason for the decrease in the royalty rate from 4% to 3% was due to the lower projected margins for the Newsday print newspaper and newsday.com.  The primary reason for the increase in the discount rate for the Newsday print newspaper trademark from 9.0% in 2008 to 11.5% in 2009 and 12.0% in 2010 was due to an increase in both the estimated cost of equity and debt for the industry, which was primarily due to an increase in the economic volatility affecting the overall economy, and in particular the newspaper publishing industry, and an increase in borrowing costs to the industry.
 
(8)
 
Useful Lives of Finite-Lived Intangible Assets:
The Company has recognized intangible assets for customer and advertiser relationships, and other intangible assets as a result of purchase accounting.  The Company has determined that certain of such intangible assets have finite lives.  The estimated useful lives and net carrying values of these intangible assets at December 31, 2010, which include customer relationships and other amortizable intangible assets acquired in connection with the Company's acquisition of Bresnan Cable in December 2010, are as follows:
Customer relationships represent the value attributed to customer relationships acquired primarily from the Bresnan Cable acquisition which are amortized using the sum of the years' digits method.  This method of amortization results in a greater portion of the intangible asset being amortized in the earlier years of its useful life.
Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets:
Deferred tax assets have resulted primarily from the Company's future deductible temporary differences and net operating loss carry forwards ("NOLs").  In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.  The Company's ability to realize its deferred tax assets depends upon the generation of sufficient future taxable income and tax planning strategies to allow for the utilization of its NOLs and deductible temporary differences.  If such estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets, resulting in additional income tax expense in the Company's consolidated statement of operations.  Management evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and the need for additional valuation allowances quarterly.  At this time, based on current facts and circumstances, management believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will realize benefit for its gross deferred tax assets, except those deferred tax assets against which a valuation allowance has been recorded which relate to certain state NOLs.  The Company decreased the valuation allowance by $2,428 in 2010, decreased the valuation allowance by $1,427 in 2009 and increased the valuation allowance by $6,602 in 2008.  During 2010, 2009 and 2008, certain state NOLs expired prior to utilization.  The deferred tax asset corresponding to the expired NOLs had been fully offset by a valuation allowance. The associated deferred tax asset and valuation allowance were both reduced by $287, $3,609 and $2,681 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  To address state income tax planning considerations, certain subsidiary corporations were converted to limited liability companies during 2009. Certain state NOLs, for which the related deferred tax assets were fully offset by a valuation allowance, were eliminated pursuant to such conversions.  Accordingly, the associated deferred tax asset and valuation allowance were both reduced by $9,355 in 2009.
 
(9)
 
Plant and Equipment:
Costs incurred in the construction of the Company's cable television system, including line extensions to, and upgrade of, the Company's hybrid fiber-coaxial infrastructure and headend facilities are capitalized.  These costs consist of materials, subcontractor labor, direct consulting fees, and internal labor and related costs associated with the construction activities.  The internal costs that are capitalized consist of salaries and benefits of Company employees and the portion of facility costs, including rent, taxes, insurance and utilities, that supports the construction activities.  These costs are depreciated over the estimated life of the plant (10 to 25 years) and headend facilities (4 to 25 years).  Costs of operating the plant and the technical facilities, including repairs and maintenance, are expensed as incurred.
Costs incurred to connect businesses or residences that have not been previously connected to the infrastructure or digital platform are also capitalized.  These costs include materials, subcontractor labor, internal labor to connect, provision and provide on-site and remote technical assistance and other related costs associated with the connection activities.  In addition, on-site and remote technical assistance during the provisioning process for new digital product offerings are capitalized.  The departmental activities supporting the connection process are tracked through specific metrics, and the portion of departmental costs that is capitalized is determined through a time weighted activity allocation of costs incurred based on time studies used to estimate the average time spent on each activity.  New connections are amortized over 5 years or 12 years for residence wiring and feeder cable to the home, respectively.  The portion of departmental costs related to reconnection, programming service up- and down- grade, repair and maintenance, and disconnection activities are expensed as incurred.
Certain Transactions
The following transactions occurred during the periods covered by this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:
2010 Transactions
On February 9, 2010, Cablevision completed the MSG Distribution, which took the form of a distribution by Cablevision of one share of Madison Square Garden Class A Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class A Common Stock held of record on the MSG Distribution Record Date and one share of Madison Square Garden Class B Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class B Common Stock held of record on the MSG Distribution Record Date.  On January 12, 2010, the Company transferred to Madison Square Garden the Company's subsidiaries which owned, directly or indirectly, all of the partnership interests in Madison Square Garden, L.P.  As a result of the MSG Distribution, on February 9, 2010, the Company no longer consolidates the financial results of Madison Square Garden for the purpose of its own financial reporting and the historical financial results of Madison Square Garden have been reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the MSG Distribution date.
On December 14, 2010, the Company completed its acquisition of Bresnan Cable through a newly-formed subsidiary.  The purchase price was $1,366,157 subject to final working capital and certain other adjustments.  The acquisition was financed using an equity contribution by CSC Holdings of $395,000, which CSC Holdings borrowed under its revolving credit facility, and debt consisting of an undrawn $75,000 revolving credit facility, a $765,000 term loan facility and $250,000 8.0% senior notes due 2018.
On December 31, 2010, Rainbow Media Holdings transferred its membership interests in News 12 Networks, RASCO and certain other business to wholly-owned subsidiaries of CSC Holdings in contemplation of the proposed AMC Networks Distribution.
 
(10)
 
2008 Transactions
In July 2008, the Company completed a series of transactions in which the Company received a 97.2% interest in a newly created limited liability company (Newsday Holdings LLC) between CSC Holdings and Tribune Company that included the net assets of Newsday Media Group.  The purchase price to the Company was $622,717, including transaction costs.  In addition, Cablevision contributed approximately $682,000 aggregate face value of newly issued 8% senior notes due 2012 (with a fair value of approximately $650,000 on the date of contribution) to CSC Holdings which in turn contributed those notes to Newsday Holdings LLC.  In 2010, Cablevision redeemed the senior notes held by Newsday Holdings LLC for $758,968.  Newsday Holdings LLC received $487,500 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision 7-3/4% senior notes due 2018 and $266,217 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision 8% senior notes due 2020, plus accrued interest.
In October 2008, Optimum Lightpath completed the acquisition of 4Connections LLC for a purchase price of $49,631.
 
(11)
 
Results of Operations - Cablevision Systems Corporation
The following table sets forth on a historical basis certain items related to operations as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated:
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA
The following is a reconciliation of operating income to Adjusted Operating Cash Flow ("AOCF"):
 
(12)
 
(continued)
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA
The following is a reconciliation of operating income to AOCF:
 
(13)
 
Comparison of Consolidated Year Ended December 31, 2010 Versus Year Ended December 31, 2009
Consolidated Results  Cablevision Systems Corporation
We classify our operations into two reportable segments:
On December 31, 2010, Rainbow Media Holdings transferred its membership interests in News 12 Networks, RASCO and certain other businesses to wholly-owned subsidiaries of CSC Holdings in contemplation of the AMC Networks Distribution.
We allocate certain amounts of our corporate overhead to each segment based upon their proportionate estimated usage of services, except for Newsday as to which we allocated the incremental costs incurred in providing these services through September 30, 2009.  Subsequent to September 30, 2009, we allocated certain amounts of our corporate overhead to Newsday based upon its proportionate estimated usage of such services.  The segment financial information set forth below, including the discussion related to individual line items, does not reflect inter-segment eliminations unless specifically indicated.
Corporate overhead costs previously allocated to AMC Networks and Madison Square Garden that were not eliminated as a result of the AMC Networks Distribution in June 2011 and the MSG Distribution in February 2010 have been reclassified to continuing operations.  Subsequent to January 1, 2010, amounts allocated to Madison Square Garden represent charges pursuant to the transition services agreement.
See "Business Segments Results" for a discussion relating to the operating results of our segments.
for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $277,501 (5%) as compared to revenues, net for the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
 
(14)
 
include primarily:
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments)
in 2010 increased $130,904 (5%) as compared to 2009.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments)
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses remained constant 2010 as compared to 2009.
include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs, and costs of customer call centers.  Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $51,206 (4%) for 2010 as compared to 2009.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Selling, general and administrative expenses
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1% in 2010 compared to 2009.
decreased $29,316 (3%) for 2010 as compared to 2009.  The net decrease is attributable to the following:
Depreciation and amortization (including impairments)
increased $95,860 (5%) for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Adjusted operating cash flow
 
(15)
 
increased $40,937 (6%) for 2010 as compared to 2009.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Interest expense, net
See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" discussion below for a detail of our various borrower groups.
amounted to $2,051 for the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily from the sale of our ownership interest in PVI.
Gain on sale of programming and affiliate interests, net
for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 of $109,813 and $(977), respectively, consists primarily of the increase or decrease in the fair value of Comcast common stock owned by the Company.  The effects of these gains and losses are partially offset by the losses and gains on the related equity derivative contracts, net described below.
Gain (loss) on investments, net
for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 of $(72,044) and $631, respectively, consists of unrealized and realized losses and gains due to the change in fair value of the Company's equity derivative contracts relating to the Comcast common stock owned by the Company.  The effects of these losses and gains are partially offset by the gains or losses on investment securities pledged as collateral, which are included in gain (loss) on investments, net discussed above.
Gain (loss) on equity derivative contracts, net
amounted to $85,013 and $75,631 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  These interest rate swap contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on a portion of the Company's floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates.  The losses on interest rate swap contracts are a result of a shift in the yield curve over the life of the swap contracts.
Loss on interest rate swap contracts, net
 
amounted to $110,049 and $73,457 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  The 2010 amount represents premiums paid to repurchase a portion of Cablevision senior notes due April 2012 and related fees associated with the tender offer and the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs related to such repurchases.  The 2009 amount represents the premiums paid to repurchase a portion of Cablevision senior notes due April 2009, CSC Holdings' senior notes due July 2009, and senior debentures due August 2009 and related fees associated with the tender offers.  They also included the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs related to such repurchases.
Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of deferred financing costs
of $113,767 for the year ended December 31, 2010, reflected an effective tax rate of 35%.  In the second quarter of 2010, the Company recorded a nonrecurring tax benefit of $18,951 for an increase in certain state and city net operating loss carry forwards pursuant to the finalization of an examination with a state taxing authority.  Absent this tax benefit, the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 would have been 41%.   The Company recorded tax expense of $5,842 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to measure deferred taxes principally due to the impact of the MSG Distribution on February 9, 2010.  A decrease in the valuation allowance relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards resulted in a tax benefit of $2,428.  The Company recorded tax expense of $1,202, including accrued interest, related to uncertain tax positions.
Income tax expense
The Company recorded income tax expense of $113,177 for the year ended December 31, 2009, reflecting an effective tax rate of 48%.  To address state income tax planning considerations, during 2009 certain subsidiary corporations were converted to limited liability companies.  In connection with such conversions, the Company recorded tax expense of $9,095 relating to the elimination of certain state NOLs and credit carry forwards.  Absent this tax expense, the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 would have been 44%.  The Company recorded a tax benefit of $6,764 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to measure deferred taxes.  A decrease in the valuation allowance relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards resulted in a tax benefit of $1,427.  The Company recorded tax benefit of $105, including accrued interest, related to uncertain tax positions.
 
(16)
 
For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company has fully offset federal taxable income with a net operating loss carry forward.  However, the Company is subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and certain state and local income taxes that are payable quarterly.
Income (loss) from discontinued operations
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 reflects the following items:
______________
Business Segments Results
Telecommunications Services
The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues, net for our Telecommunications Services segment:
 
(17)
 
The following is a reconciliation of operating income to AOCF:
for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $304,022 (6%) as compared to revenues, net for the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
Revenue increases reflected above are primarily derived from higher rates (primarily due to an increase in video rates of 3.7% on average, which was implemented beginning in December 2009), increases in the number of subscribers to our high-speed data and voice services as set forth in the table below, including additional services sold to our existing video subscribers, upgrades by video customers from the level of the programming package to which they subscribe, and acquisition transactions that result in the addition of new subscribers.  The acquisition of our Bresnan Cable system on December 14, 2010, resulted in an approximate $22,100 increase in revenues, net.  These increases are partially offset by promotional offer pricing discounts and a decline in basic video customers in our New York metropolitan service area and other rate changes.  Our average monthly revenue per basic video subscriber for the three months ended December 31, 2010 was $150.68 (for our New York metropolitan service area only) as compared to $149.04 and $144.03 for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.
We believe the increase in advertising revenue is primarily due to a general improvement in the cable television advertising market and political advertising in 2010.  The increase in Optimum Lightpath net revenues is primarily attributable to growth in Ethernet data services, partially offset by reduced traditional data services and lower intra-segment revenue.
 
(18)
 
The following table presents certain subscriber and revenue generating units ("RGUs") information as of December 31, 2010, September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009 for the Company's cable television systems (excluding Optimum Lightpath):
______________
Total RGUs as of December 31, 2010, include 880,900 RGUs related to the acquisition of our Bresnan Cable system in December 2010.
Excluding the impact of the Bresnan Cable system, the Company had a loss of 55,500 basic video customers for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to a loss of 45,100 in 2009.  This is largely attributable to the impact of a retransmission consent dispute in October 2010, the economic downturn, and, to a lesser extent, intense competition, particularly from Verizon.
For the year ended December 31, 2010, excluding the impact of the Bresnan Cable system, the Company added 128,600 RGUs as compared to 297,700 in 2009.  These additions include increases in digital video customers of approximately 40,500 and 50,600 for the years ended 2010 and 2009, respectively, resulting from the migration from analog to full digital across certain regions of our service area.  The length of the economic downturn, along with intense competition, could impact our ability to maintain or increase our existing customers and revenue in the future.
for 2010 increased $134,460 (6%) as compared to 2009.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization shown below)
 
(19)
 
Technical and operating expenses consist primarily of programming costs and direct costs associated with providing and maintaining services to our customers.  These costs typically rise as the number of RGUs grow and also due to general inflationary cost increases for employees, contractors, programming rates and other various expenses.  Costs of field operations also increase as the portion of our expenses that we are able to capitalize decreases due to lower new customer installations and lower new service upgrades.  Network related costs also fluctuate as capitalizable network upgrade and enhancement activity changes.  Franchise fees are payable to the state governments and local municipalities where we operate and are based on a percentage of certain categories of revenue, primarily video revenue which vary by state and municipality.  These costs change in relation to changes in such categories of revenues or rate changes.  We expect that our technical and operating expenses will continue to increase in the future.  However, as a percentage of revenues, we expect these costs to remain relatively constant.
Effective January 1, 2010, a new long-term affiliation agreement was entered into between Cablevision and the MSG networks, which are owned by Madison Square Garden.  This new long-term affiliation agreement resulted in incremental programming costs to the Company of approximately $29,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the amount of programming costs recognized by the Company pursuant to the Company's arrangement with Madison Square Garden in 2009.  This new affiliation agreement provides for the carriage of the MSG Network and MSG Plus program services on the Company's cable television systems in the tri-state area.  This agreement has a term of 10 years, obligates the Company to carry the MSG networks program services on its cable television systems and provides for the payment by the Company to the MSG networks of a per subscriber license fee, which fee is increased each year during the term of the agreement.
increased $45,256 (4%) for 2010 as compared to 2009.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Selling, general and administrative expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses include customer related costs, principally from the operation and maintenance of our call center facilities that handle customer inquiries and billing and collection activities.  These costs generally rise as the number of RGUs grow and also as a result of general inflationary cost increases for employees and other various expenses.  Sales and marketing costs primarily consist of employee costs and advertising production and placement costs associated with acquiring and retaining customers.  These costs may increase with intense competition.
Prior to the AMC Networks Distribution, the Telecommunications Services segment received a management fee calculated based on gross revenues of AMC and WE tv (as defined under the terms of the management agreement) on a monthly basis.  Historically, these management fees were reported as a contra-expense and amounted to $26,511 and $23,773, for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  The management agreement was terminated in connection with the AMC Networks Distribution and the fees received have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented.
 
(20)
 
decreased $32,890 (4%) for 2010 as compared to 2009.  The net decrease resulted primarily from certain assets becoming fully depreciated, partially offset by depreciation of new asset purchases and depreciation and amortization of $6,791 related to the newly acquired Bresnan Cable system.
Depreciation and amortization
increased $127,443 (6%) for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 2009.  The increase was due to an increase in revenue, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses excluding depreciation and amortization and share-based compensation, as discussed above.  The year ended 2010 increase includes the $23,000 nonrecurring settlement of a contractual fee matter related to years prior to 2009 recorded in 2010, partially offset by a $14,375 nonrecurring contract termination charge related to the Bresnan Cable system.  The increase in 2010 was also negatively impacted by the reversal of an accrual in 2009 due to legislative changes which clarified the applicability of certain VoIP fees of $18,976 and the impact of the favorable resolution of litigation that resulted in a reversal of expense recognized in prior periods recorded in 2009 of $5,579.
Adjusted operating cash flow
 
Other
The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues, net for the Other segment.
The following is a reconciliation of operating loss to AOCF deficit:
 
(21)
 
for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased $28,291 (6%) as compared to revenues, net for the prior year.  The net decrease is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased $3,688 (1%) as compared to the prior year.  The net decrease is attributable to the following:
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization shown below)
increased $4,312 for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Selling, general, and administrative expenses
For the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we allocated certain corporate overhead, including share-based compensation expense and expenses related to Cablevision's long-term incentive plans, of $38,015 and $34,275, respectively, to AMC Networks.  Such expenses will not be eliminated as a result of the AMC Networks Distribution and have been reclassified to the Other segment for all periods presented.
for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $3,574 (6%) as compared to the prior year.  The net increase is primarily due to an impairment charge recorded at Newsday of $7,800 in 2010 relating to the estimated fair value of Newsday's indefinite-lived intangible trademark, as compared to $2,000 in the prior year, and depreciation of new asset purchases, partially offset by a decrease in depreciation due to certain assets becoming fully depreciated and a decrease in depreciation expense of $4,025 related to two Newsday printing presses that were phased out of service in mid-year 2009.
Depreciation and amortization (including impairments)
 
(22)
 
for the year ended December 31, 2009 amounted to $5,583.  This is comprised of $3,590 in severance and other related costs associated with the elimination of 98 staff positions and $3,174 related to a lease modification termination penalty and other lease and contract exit costs at Newsday.  Offsetting these expenses are restructuring credits of $1,181 related to adjustments in severance and facility realignment provisions recorded in prior restructuring plans.
Restructuring expense
increased $31,583 (18%) for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 2009 (including AOCF of Newsday of $19,349 and $21,775 in 2010 and 2009, respectively).  The increase was due primarily to a decrease in revenues, net, partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses excluding depreciation and amortization and share-based compensation, as discussed above.
Adjusted operating cash flow deficit
 
Comparison of Consolidated Year Ended December 31, 2009 Versus Year Ended December 31, 2008
Consolidated Results  Cablevision Systems Corporation
for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $419,275 (8%) as compared to revenues, net for the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
include primarily:
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments)
in 2009 increased $141,452 (6%) as compared to 2008.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization and impairments)
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses decreased 1% during 2009 as compared to 2008.
include primarily sales, marketing and advertising expenses, administrative costs, and costs of customer call centers.  Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $135,662 (11%) for 2009 as compared to 2008.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
(23)
 
 
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 1% in 2009 compared to 2008.
amounted to $5,583 in 2009 and $3,049 in 2008.  The 2009 amount was comprised of $3,590 in severance and other related costs associated with the elimination of 98 staff positions and $3,174 related to a lease modification termination penalty and other lease and contract exit costs at Newsday.  Offsetting these expenses were restructuring credits of $1,181 related to adjustments to severance and facility realignment provisions recorded in prior restructuring plans.  The 2008 amount consisted of $5,181 in severance and other related costs associated with the elimination of 106 staff positions, $572 related to lease and other contract exit costs, and $1,472 related to the write-off of intangible assets due to the shut down of a publishing business at Newsday.  These expenses were partially offset by credits of $4,176 related to adjustments to corporate facility realignment provisions recorded in prior restructuring plans.
Restructuring expense
 
decreased $416,693 for 2009 as compared to 2008.  In 2008, we recorded impairment charges of $400,880 related to indefinite-lived intangibles, certain long-lived intangible assets and goodwill at our Newsday business.  Additionally, the net decrease consisted of a $29,329 decrease resulting primarily from certain assets becoming fully depreciated, partially offset by depreciation of new asset purchases and increases resulting from the Newsday transaction of $13,516 (including impairment charges of $2,790 in 2009).
Depreciation and amortization (including impairments)
increased $155,647 (8%) for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Adjusted operating cash flow
decreased $17,911 (3%) during 2009 compared to 2008.  The net decrease is attributable to the following:
Interest expense, net
See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" discussion below for a detail of our various borrower groups.
 
for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 amounted to $977 and $33,176, respectively.  The 2009 amount consists primarily of the decrease in the fair value of Comcast common stock owned by the Company and the unrealized and realized net loss associated with various other investments.  The 2008 amount consists of the net increase or decrease in the fair value of Comcast common stock and the unrealized and realized net loss of various other investments.  The effects of these gains and losses are partially offset by the losses and gains on related equity derivative contracts, net described below.
Loss on investments, net
 
(24)
 
for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 of $631 and $51,772, respectively, consists of unrealized and realized gains due to the change in fair value of the Company's equity derivative contracts relating to the Comcast common stock owned by the Company.  The effects of these gains are partially offset by the losses on investment securities pledged as collateral, which are included in loss on investments, net discussed above.
Gain on equity derivative contracts, net
amounted to $75,631 and $202,840 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  These interest rate swap contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on a portion of the Company's floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates.  The losses on interest rate swap contracts are a result of a shift in the yield curve over the life of the swap contracts.
Loss on interest rate swap contracts, net
 
of $73,457 for the year ended December 31, 2009 resulted from tender premiums, fees and the write off of unamortized discounts and deferred financing costs associated with the repurchase of a portion of Cablevision's senior notes due April 2009 and CSC Holdings' senior notes due July 2009, August 2009, April 2011, and April 2012 pursuant to our tender offers.
Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of
deferred financing costs
of $113,177 for the year ended December 31, 2009, reflected an effective tax rate of 48%.  To address state income tax planning considerations, during 2009 certain subsidiary corporations were converted to limited liability companies.  In connection with such conversions, the Company recorded tax expense of $9,095 relating to the elimination of certain state NOLs and credit carry forwards.  Absent this tax expense, the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 would have been 44%.  The Company recorded tax benefit of $6,764 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to measure deferred taxes.  A decrease in the valuation allowance relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards resulted in a tax benefit of $1,427.  The Company recorded tax benefit of $105, including accrued interest, related to uncertain tax positions.
Income tax expense
The Company recorded income tax benefit of $113,918 for the year ended December 31, 2008, reflecting an effective tax rate of 31%.  The Company recorded tax benefit of $11,274 for the impact of a change in the state rate used to measure deferred taxes.  An increase in the valuation allowance relating to certain state net operating loss carry forwards resulted in tax expense of $6,602.  The Company recorded tax expense of $1,417, including accrued interest, related to uncertain tax positions.
For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company has fully offset federal taxable income with a net operating loss carry forward.  However, the Company is subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and certain state and local income taxes that are payable quarterly.
for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 of $273 and $8,108, respectively, represent other parties' share of the net losses of entities which are not entirely owned by us but which are consolidated in our financial statements.
Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
Income from discontinued operations
On June 30, 2011, the Company completed the AMC Networks Distribution. In February 2010, the Company completed the MSG Distribution.  As a result, the operating results of these businesses, net of income taxes, have been classified in the consolidated statements of operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
 
 
(25)
 
Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 reflects the following items, net of related income taxes and noncontrolling interests:
 
Business Segments Results
Telecommunications Services
The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain historical financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues, net for our Telecommunications Services segment:
The following is a reconciliation of operating income to AOCF:
 
(26)
 
for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $266,133 (5%) as compared to revenues, net for the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
Revenue increases reflected above are primarily derived from higher rates (primarily due to an increase of video rates of 3.5% on average, which was implemented beginning in December 2008), increases in the number of subscribers to our high-speed data and voice services, including additional services sold to our existing video subscribers, upgrades by video customers from the level of the programming package to which they subscribe, and acquisition transactions that result in the addition of new subscribers, offset in part by offer discounts and other rate changes.  As a result, our average monthly revenue per basic video subscriber for the three months ended December 31, 2009 was $144.03 as compared to $134.85 and $141.03 for the three months ended December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2009, respectively.
We believe the decline in advertising revenue is primarily due to the impact of the economic downturn, which may continue.  The increase in Optimum Lightpath net revenues is primarily attributable to growth in Ethernet data services and the acquisition of 4Connections LLC in October 2008, partially offset by reduced traditional data services and lower intra-segment revenue.  The decrease in intra-segment eliminations for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the prior year includes a reduction of interconnection costs charged to Optimum Lightpath and passed through to Optimum Voice of approximately $6,835 resulting from the resolution of certain disputed amounts between Optimum Lightpath and a third party vendor.  Additionally, Optimum Voice is purchasing fewer services from Optimum Lightpath resulting from certain operational functions now being performed directly within cable operations.
The following table presents certain subscriber and revenue generating units ("RGUs") information as of December 31, 2009, September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008 for the Company's cable television systems (excluding Optimum Lightpath):
The Company had a loss of 45,100 basic video customers for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to a loss of 14,900 in 2008.  This is primarily due to the impact of the economic downturn, and, to a lesser extent, intensifying competition, particularly from Verizon.
 
(27)
 
For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company added 297,700 RGUs as compared to 653,400 in 2008.  These additions include increases in iO digital video customers resulting from digital migration initiatives that eliminated the duplicate analog feeds of various channels carried in digital of approximately 50,600 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 93,800 in 2008.
The growth in RGU additions slowed compared to the comparable period in 2008 as a result of the Company's relatively high penetration rates, the economic downturn and, to a lesser extent, the effects of intensifying competition, particularly from Verizon.  The severity and length of the economic downturn, along with intensifying competition, could impact our ability to maintain or increase our existing customers and revenue in the future.
 
for 2009 increased $25,701 (1%) as compared to 2008.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization shown below)
As a percentage of revenues, technical and operating expenses decreased 1% during 2009 as compared to 2008.  Technical and operating expenses consist primarily of programming costs and direct costs associated with providing and maintaining services to our customers.  These costs typically rise as the number of RGUs grow and also due to general inflationary cost increases for employees, contractors, programming rates and other various expenses.  Costs of field operations also increase as the portion of our expenses that we are able to capitalize decreases due to lower new customer installations and lower new service upgrades.  Network related costs also fluctuate as capitalizable network upgrade and enhancement activity changes.  Franchise fees are payable to the state governments and local municipalities where we operate and are based on a percentage of certain categories of revenue, primarily video revenue which vary by state and municipality.  These costs change in relation to changes in such categories of revenues or rate changes.  We expect that our technical and operating expenses will continue to increase in the future.  However, as a percentage of revenues, we expect these costs to remain relatively constant.
increased $58,231 (6%) for 2009 as compared to 2008.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
(28)
 
As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses remained constant in 2009 as compared to 2008.  Selling, general and administrative expenses include customer related costs, principally from the operation and maintenance of our call center facilities that handle customer inquiries and billing and collection activities.  These costs generally rise as the number of RGUs grow and also as a result of general inflationary cost increases for employees and other various expenses.  We expect that our customer related costs will continue to increase in relatively the same proportion as increases in RGUs and general inflationary cost increases.  Sales and marketing costs primarily consist of employee costs and advertising production and placement costs associated with acquiring and retaining customers.  These costs may continue to increase as competition continues to intensify.
 
Prior to the AMC Networks Distribution, the Telecommunications Services segment received a management fee calculated based on gross revenues of AMC and WE tv (as defined under the terms of the management agreement) on a monthly basis.  Historically, these management fees were reported as a contra-expense and amounted to $23,773 and $21,513, for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  The management agreement was terminated in connection with the AMC Networks Distribution and the fees received have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented.
decreased $33,993 (4%) for 2009 as compared to 2008.  The net decrease resulted primarily from certain assets becoming fully depreciated, partially offset by depreciation of new asset purchases.
Depreciation and amortization
increased $189,824 (9%) for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 2008.  The increase was due primarily to an increase in revenue, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses excluding depreciation and amortization and share-based compensation, as discussed above.
Adjusted operating cash flow
Other
The table below sets forth, for the periods presented, certain financial information and the percentage that those items bear to revenues, net for the Other segment.
 
(29)
 
The following is a reconciliation of operating loss to AOCF deficit:
for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $158,262 as compared to revenues, net for the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Revenues, net
 
for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $116,238 (50%) as compared to the prior year.  The net increase is attributable to the following:
Technical and operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization shown below)
increased $82,064 for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the prior year. The net decrease is attributable to the following:
Selling, general, and administrative expenses
For the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we allocated certain corporate overhead, including share-based compensation expense and expenses related to Cablevision's long-term incentive plans, of $34,275 and $32,560, respectively, to AMC Networks.  Such expenses will not be eliminated as a result of the AMC Networks Distribution and have been reclassified to the Other segment for all periods presented.
for the year ended December 31, 2009 amounted to $5,583.  This was comprised of $3,590 in severance and other related costs associated with the elimination of 98 staff positions and $3,174 related to a lease modification termination penalty and other lease and contract exit costs at Newsday.  Offsetting these expenses were restructuring credits of $1,181 related to adjustments in severance and facility realignment provisions recorded in prior restructuring plans.
Restructuring expense
 
(30)
 
For the year ended December 31, 2008 restructuring expense amounted to $3,049 and consisted of $5,181 in severance and other related costs associated with the elimination of 106 staff positions, $572 related to lease and other contract exit costs, and $1,472 related to the write-off of intangible assets due to the shut down of a publishing business at Newsday.  These expenses were partially offset by credits of $4,176 related to adjustments in corporate facility realignment provisions recorded in prior restructuring plans.
decreased $382,700 in 2009 as compared to 2008 primarily due to impairment charges of $400,880 related to indefinite-lived intangibles, certain long-lived intangible assets and goodwill at Newsday recorded in 2008, partially offset by an increase resulting from a full year of depreciation and amortization at Newsday of $13,516 (including impairment charges of $2,790) in 2009.
Depreciation and amortization (including impairments)
increased $34,177 (24%) for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 2008, net of an increase in AOCF at Newsday of $3,009 (from $18,766 in 2008 to $21,775 in 2009).  The increase was due to an increase in operating expenses excluding depreciation and amortization and share-based compensation, partially offset by an increase in revenues, net, as discussed above.
Adjusted operating cash flow deficit
 
CSC HOLDINGS, LLC
The consolidated statements of operations of CSC Holdings are essentially identical to the consolidated statements of operations of Cablevision, except for the following:
Refer to Cablevision's Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations herein.
 
(31)
 
Cash Flow Discussion
Continuing Operations  Cablevision Systems Corporation
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $1,359,618 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1,247,139 for the year ended December 31, 2009.  The 2010 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $1,094,841 of income before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), $318,658 of non-cash items and a $70,156 increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities.  Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $79,854 resulting from an increase in current and other assets and a $44,183 decrease in liabilities under derivative contracts.  The increase in cash provided by operating activities of $112,479 in 2010 as compared to 2009 resulted from an increase in income from continuing operations before depreciation and amortization and other non-cash items of $46,613 and an increase of $65,866 resulting from changes in working capital, including the timing of payments and collections of accounts receivable, among other items.
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $1,247,139 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1,196,105 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  The 2009 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $1,040,240 of income before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), $326,646 of non-cash items and a $6,216 increase in deferred revenue.  Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $52,408 resulting from a decrease in liabilities under derivative contracts, a $52,933 decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and a $20,622 increase in current and other assets. The increase in cash provided by operating activities of $51,034 in 2009 as compared to 2008 resulted from an increase in income from continuing operations before depreciation and amortization and other non-cash items of $306,177, partially offset by a decrease of $255,143 resulting from changes in working capital, including the timing of payments and collections of accounts receivable, among other items.
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $1,196,105 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  The 2008 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $1,075,329 of income before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), a $150,720 increase in liabilities under derivative contracts and a $68,944 increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities.  Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $84,268 resulting from an increase in current and other assets and a decrease of $14,620 of non-cash items.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $2,272,029 compared to $667,273 for the year ended December 31, 2009.  The 2010 investing activities consisted primarily of $1,356,500 of payments related primarily to the acquisition of Bresnan Cable, $823,245 of capital expenditures ($779,928 of which relate to our Telecommunications Services segment) and net contributions to AMC Networks (reflected in discontinued operations) of $99,614, partially offset by other net cash receipts of $7,330.
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $667,273 compared to $1,637,452 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  The 2009 investing activities consisted primarily of $737,524 of capital expenditures ($696,492 of which relate to our Telecommunications Services segment), partially offset by net contributions from AMC Networks (reflected in discontinued operations) of $66,252 and other net cash receipts of $3,999.
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $1,637,452.  The 2008 investing activities consisted primarily of $830,332 of capital expenditures ($783,711 of which relate to our Telecommunications Services segment), $672,175 of payments relating primarily to the acquisitions of Newsday and 4Connections LLC, net contributions to Rainbow Media Holdings (reflected in discontinued operations) of $119,360 and other net cash payments aggregating $15,585.
 
(32)
 
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $950,380 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $670,478 for the year ended December 31, 2009.  In 2010, the Company's financing activities consisted primarily of proceeds of $1,500,000 from the issuance of senior notes, net proceeds of credit facility debt of $1,037,712, partially offset by the repurchase of senior notes and debentures pursuant to a tender offer of $1,078,212, treasury stock purchases of $300,247, dividend payments to common shareholders of $140,734, additions to deferred financing costs of $65,723 and other net cash payments of $2,416.
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $670,478 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $471,483 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  In 2009, the Company's financing activities consisted primarily of the repayment and repurchase of senior notes of $2,398,740, net repayments of credit facility debt of $235,000, dividend payments to common shareholders of $123,499, additions to deferred financing costs of $49,775 and other net cash payments of $1,748, partially offset by proceeds of $2,138,284 from the issuance of senior notes.
Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $471,483 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  In 2008, the Company's financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds of credit facility debt of $565,000, proceeds of $500,000 from the issuance of senior notes, net proceeds from collateralized indebtedness of $3,437 and other net cash receipts of $898, partially offset by the redemption of senior notes of $500,000, dividend payments to common shareholders of $64,854 and additions to deferred financing costs of $32,998.
Continuing Operations - CSC Holdings, LLC
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $1,608,007 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1,397,075 for the year ended December 31, 2009.  The 2010 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $1,308,170 of income before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), $328,276 of non-cash items and a $75,236 increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities.  Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $59,492 resulting from an increase in current and other assets and a $44,183 decrease in liabilities under derivative contracts.  The increase in cash provided by operating activities of $210,932 in 2010 as compared to 2009 resulted from an increase in income from continuing operations before depreciation and amortization and other non-cash items of $108,710 and an increase of $102,222 resulting from changes in working capital, including the timing of payments and collections of accounts receivable, among other items.
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $1,397,075 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1,184,908 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  The 2009 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $1,145,891 of income before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), $381,845 of non-cash items and a $6,216 increase in deferred revenue.  Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $67,991 resulting from a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, a $52,408 decrease in liabilities under derivative contracts, and a $16,478 increase in current and other assets.  The increase in cash provided by operating activities of $212,167 in 2009 as compared to 2008 resulted from an increase in income from continuing operations before depreciation and amortization and other non-cash items of $326,728, partially offset by a decrease of $114,561 resulting from changes in working capital, including the timing of payments and collections of accounts receivable, among other items.
 
(33)
 
Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $1,184,908 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  The 2008 cash provided by operating activities resulted from $1,167,118 of income before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), $33,890 of non-cash items, a $150,720 increase in liabilities under derivative contracts and a $63,398 increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities.  Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $144,131 resulting from an increase in amounts due from affiliates and a $86,087 increase in current and other assets.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $2,272,029 compared to $667,273 for the year ended December 31, 2009.  The 2010 investing activities consisted primarily of $1,356,500 of payments relating primarily to the acquisition of Bresnan Cable, $823,245 of capital expenditures ($779,928 of which relate to our Telecommunications Services segment) and net contributions to Rainbow Media Holdings (reflected in discontinued operations) of $99,614, partially offset by other net cash receipts of $7,330.
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $667,273 compared to $1,637,452 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  The 2009 investing activities consisted primarily of $737,524 of capital expenditures ($696,492 of which relate to our Telecommunications Services segment), partially offset by net contributions from Rainbow Media Holdings (reflected in discontinued operations) of $66,252, and other net cash receipts of $3,999.
Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $1,637,452.  The 2008 investing activities consisted primarily of $830,332 of capital expenditures ($783,711 of which relate to our Telecommunications Services segment), $672,175 of payments relating primarily to the acquisitions of Newsday and 4Connections LLC, net contributions to Rainbow Media Holdings (reflected in discontinued operations) of $119,360 and other net cash payments aggregating $15,585.
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $695,906 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $833,472 for the year ended December 31, 2009.  In 2010, the Company's financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds of credit facility debt of $1,037,712 and proceeds of $250,000 from the issuance of senior notes, partially offset by net distributions made to Cablevision of $551,013, additions to deferred financing costs of $39,131 and other net cash payments of $1,662.
Net cash used in financing activities amounted to $833,472 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $483,507 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  In 2009, the Company's financing activities consisted primarily of the repayment and repurchase of senior notes of $1,898,225, net repayments of credit facility debt of $235,000, additions to deferred financing costs of $30,754 and other net cash payments of $1,928, partially offset by proceeds of $1,250,920 from the issuance of senior notes and net contributions from Cablevision of $81,515.
Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to $483,507 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  In 2008, the Company's financing activities consisted primarily of net proceeds of credit facility debt of $565,000, proceeds of $500,000 from the issuance of senior notes and net proceeds from collateralized indebtedness of $3,437, partially offset by the redemption of senior notes of $500,000, distributions made to Cablevision of $48,867, additions to deferred financing costs of $32,917, and other net cash payments of $3,146.
 
(34)
 
Discontinued Operations - Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, LLC
The net effect of discontinued operations on cash and cash equivalents amounted to a cash inflow of $60,818, $79,267, and $63,027 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Net Cash Used in Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities of discontinued operations amounted to $306,893 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $390,732 for the year ended December 31, 2009.  The 2010 cash provided by operating activities resulted from net income of $266,902 before depreciation and amortization, non-cash items of $379,238 and a decrease in current and other assets of $9,343.  Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $305,215 resulting from the acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to program rights and a decrease in accounts payable and other liabilities of $43,375.
Net cash provided by operating activities of discontinued operations amounted to $390,732 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $160,587 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  The 2009 cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from net income of $329,307  before depreciation and amortization, non-cash items of $361,687 and an increase in accounts payable and other liabilities of $29,191.  Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $258,695 resulting from the acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to program rights and an increase in current and other assets of $70,758.
Net cash provided by operating activities of discontinued operations amounted to $160,587 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  The 2008 cash provided by operating activities resulted from net income of $196,308 before depreciation and amortization and  non-cash items of $335,363. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in cash of $248,511 resulting from the acquisition of and payment of obligations relating to program rights, a $58,293 cash payment to settle the Loral contract dispute, a decrease in cash resulting from the net change in current and other assets and liabilities of $47,422 and a decrease in accounts payable and other liabilities of $16,858.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $22,591 compared to $75,237 for the year ended December 31, 2009.  The 2010 investing activities consisted of capital expenditures of $23,240, partially offset by other net cash receipts of $649.
Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $75,237 compared to $173,134 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  The 2009 investing activities consisted of capital expenditures of $72,780 and other net cash payments of $2,457.
Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $173,134. The 2008 investing activities consisted of payments relating primarily to the acquisition of Sundance Channel of $110,415, capital expenditures of $78,769 and an increase in other investments of $37,632, partially offset by a decrease in restricted cash of $52,569 relating to the settlement of the Loral contract dispute and other net cash receipts of $1,113.
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $207,670 compared to $192,890 for the year ended December 31, 2009.  The 2010 financing activities consist of the repayment of the note payable to Madison Square Garden of $190,000, net repayments of credit facility debt of $105,000, additions to deferred financing of $8,069 and payments on capital lease obligations of $4,215, partially offset by net contributions from Cablevision of $99,614.
 
(35)
 
Net cash used in financing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $192,890 compared to $55,496 for the year ended December 31, 2008.  The 2009 financing activities consist of net bank repayments of $120,000, net distributions to Cablevision of $66,104, payments for capital lease obligations of $4,256 and additions to deferred financing of $2,530.
Net cash used in financing activities of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $55,496.  The 2008 financing activities consist of net repayments of collateralized indebtedness of $368,097, payments for capital lease obligations of $3,642 and additions to deferred financing of $2,941, partially offset by net proceeds from credit facility debt of $200,000 and net contributions from Cablevision of $119,184.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Overview
Cablevision has no operations independent of its subsidiaries.  Cablevision's outstanding securities consist of CNYG Class A common stock, CNYG Class B common stock and approximately $2,931,000 of debt securities, including approximately $2,177,000 face value of debt securities held by third party investors and approximately $754,000 held by Newsday Holdings LLC.  The $754,000 of notes are eliminated in Cablevision's consolidated financial statements and are shown as notes due from Cablevision in the consolidated equity of CSC Holdings.
Cablevision Issuance of Debt Securities
On April 15, 2010, Cablevision issued $750,000 aggregate principal amount of 7-3/4% senior notes due April 15, 2018 and $500,000 aggregate principal amount of 8% senior notes due April 15, 2020 (collectively, the " 2010 Notes") in a registered public offering.The 2010 Notes are Cablevision's senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of Cablevision's other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.  Cablevision may redeem all or a portion of the Notes at any time at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2010 Notes redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date plus a "make-whole" premium.  The Company used the net proceeds of the offering to repurchase the April 2012 Notes (as defined below) in the tender offer Cablevision commenced on April 12, 2010 discussed below and for general corporate purposes. In connection with the issuance of these senior notes, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $26,481, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of these senior notes.
 
Cablevision Tender Offer for 8% Senior Notes due 2012 Debt
On April 12, 2010, Cablevision announced that it commenced a cash tender offer for its outstanding $1,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 8% senior notes due April 2012 ("April 2012 Notes") for total consideration of $1,105.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes tendered for purchase, consisting of tender offer consideration of $1,045.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes plus an early tender premium of $60.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes.  In connection with the tender offer, Cablevision repurchased $973,175 aggregate principal amount of the April 2012 Notes in the second quarter of 2010.  Tender premiums aggregating approximately $102,000, along with other transaction costs of approximately $3,000, have been recorded in loss on extinguishment of debt in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010.  In addition, unamortized deferred financing costs related to the April 2012 Notes aggregating approximately $5,000 were written-off in 2010.
 
(36)
 
In connection with the tender offer described above, and in accordance with the Company's agreements with Tribune Company, Cablevision redeemed all of its April 2012 Notes held by Newsday Holdings LLC with a face value of $682,000 for $758,968.  Newsday Holdings LLC received $487,500 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision 7-3/4% senior notes due 2018 and $266,217 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision 8% senior notes due 2020, plus accrued interest from April 15, 2010, all in accordance with the terms of the Newsday $650,000 senior secured credit facility.  As a result of the redemption of the April 2012 Notes, CSC Holdings recorded an increase to other member's equity of $92,192.
Funding for the debt service requirements of our debt securities is provided by our subsidiaries' operations, principally CSC Holdings, as permitted by the covenants governing CSC Holdings' credit agreements and indentures.  Funding for our subsidiaries is generally provided by cash flow from operations, cash on hand, and borrowings under credit facilities made available to the Restricted Group (as later defined) and Bresnan Cable, and the proceeds from the issuance of securities in the capital markets.  Our decision as to the use of cash on hand, cash generated from operating activities and borrowings under credit facilities of the Restricted Group and Bresnan Cable will be based upon an ongoing review of the funding needs of the business, the optimal allocation of cash resources, the timing of cash flow generation and the cost of borrowing under each respective credit agreement.  Moreover, we will monitor the credit markets and may seek opportunities to issue debt, the proceeds of which could be used to meet our future cash funding requirements.  The Company has accessed the debt markets for significant amounts of capital in the past and may do so in the future.
 
We have assessed the implications of the volatility in the capital and credit markets on our ability to repay our scheduled debt maturities over the next 12 months and we currently believe that a combination of cash-on-hand, cash generated from operating activities and availability under our revolving credit facilities should provide us with sufficient liquidity to repay such scheduled current debt maturities in the next 12 months totaling approximately $483,248 under our credit facilities and senior notes as of December 31, 2010.  However, additional market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our products, such as cable television services, as well as lower levels of television and newspaper advertising, and increased incidence of customers' inability to pay for the services we provide.  These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.  Although we currently believe that amounts available under our CSC Holdings and Bresnan Cable revolving credit facilities will be available when, and if needed, we can provide no assurance that access to such funds will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets.  The obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facilities are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others.
In the longer term, we do not expect to be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund anticipated capital expenditures, meet all existing future contractual payment obligations and repay our debt at maturity.  As a result, we will be dependent upon our ability to access the capital and credit markets.  We will need to raise significant amounts of funding over the next several years to fund capital expenditures, repay existing obligations and meet other obligations, and the failure to do so successfully could adversely affect our business.  If we are unable to do so, we will need to take other actions including deferring capital expenditures, selling assets, seeking strategic investments from third parties or reducing or eliminating dividend payments and stock repurchases or other discretionary uses of cash.
 
(37)
 
The following table summarizes our outstanding debt, including capital lease obligations, as well as interest expense and capital expenditures as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010:
______________
 
(38)
 
 
The following table provides details of the Company's outstanding credit facility debt:
______________
The following table provides details of the Company's capital expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
(39)
 
 
Total amounts payable by the Company and its subsidiaries in connection with its outstanding obligations during the five years subsequent to December 31, 2010 and thereafter, including capital leases and related interest and the value deliverable at maturity under monetization contracts as of December 31, 2010 are as follows:
______________
 
Restricted Group
As of December 31, 2010, CSC Holdings and those of its subsidiaries which conduct our cable television video operations in the New York metropolitan area, and high-speed data service, and our VoIP services operations, as well as Optimum Lightpath, our commercial data and voice service business, comprise the "Restricted Group" as they are subject to the covenants and restrictions of the credit facility and indentures governing the notes and debentures securities issued by CSC Holdings.  In addition, the Restricted Group is also subject to the covenants of the debt issued by Cablevision.
Sources of cash for the Restricted Group include primarily cash flow from the operations of the businesses in the Restricted Group, borrowings under its credit facility and issuance of securities in the capital markets and, from time to time, distributions or loans from its subsidiaries.  The Restricted Group's principal uses of cash include: capital spending, in particular, the capital requirements associated with the growth of its services such as digital video, high-speed data and voice (including enhancements to its service offerings such as a broadband wireless network (WiFi)); debt service, including distributions made to Cablevision to service interest expense on its debt securities; distributions to Cablevision to fund dividends payable to stockholders of CNYG Class A and CNYG Class B common stock; distributions to Cablevision to fund share repurchases; other corporate expenses and changes in working capital; and investments that it may fund from time to time.  We currently expect that the net funding and investment requirements of the Restricted Group for the next 12 months will be met with one or more of the following: cash on hand, cash generated by operating activities and available borrowings under the Restricted Group's credit facility.
Amendment and Restatement of Credit Facility
On April 13, 2010, CSC Holdings and certain of its subsidiaries (the "Restricted Subsidiaries") entered into an amended credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), providing for (i) an amendment and restatement of the credit agreement, dated as of February 24, 2006, as first amended and restated in its entirety as of May 27, 2009 and further amended and restated in its entirety as of April 13, 2010, and (ii) an amendment to the Incremental Term Supplement, dated as of March 29, 2006 and amended as of May 27, 2009.
 
(40)
 
 
Among other things, the Credit Agreement provides for the specific mechanics of extending, from time to time, the revolving credit commitments, term A loans, incremental term loans and any additional facility commitments or additional facility loans, as applicable, with the terms of such extended facility to be documented at the time of such extension in an extended facility agreement.  Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, CSC Holdings entered into three extended facilities as of April 13, 2010, as follows:
On June 30, 2010, the availability period for $20,000 of revolving credit commitments under CSC Holdings' Revolving Credit Facility was extended to March 31, 2015 and the maturity date of $4,786 of loans under CSC Holdings' existing term A facility was extended to March 31, 2015.
The revolver has no required interim repayments.  The term A-1 loan facility requires quarterly repayments of approximately $17,254 in 2011.  The extended term A facility is subject to quarterly repayments of approximately $12,142 through March 2012, approximately $18,213 beginning in June 2012 through March 2013, approximately $24,284 beginning in June 2013 through March 2014 and approximately $54,640 beginning in June 2014 through its maturity date in March 2015.  The term B loan facility is subject to quarterly repayments of approximately $851 through March 2012 and approximately $80,000 beginning on June 30, 2012 through its maturity date in March 2013.  The term B-2 extended loan facility is subject to quarterly repayments of approximately $3,007 through December 2015 and a final payment of approximately $1,085,585 upon maturity in March 2016.  The term B-3 extended loan facility is subject to quarterly repayments of approximately $4,196 through December 2015 and a final payment of approximately $1,581,933 upon maturity in March 2016.  The borrowings under the Restricted Group credit facility may be repaid without penalty at any time.
 
(41)
 
 
Loans under the Restricted Group credit facility are direct obligations of CSC Holdings, guaranteed by most Restricted Group subsidiaries and secured by the pledge of the stock of most Restricted Group subsidiaries.
In April 2010, the Company utilized $200,000 of its increased revolver commitments to make a $200,000 pre-payment of the unextended term B loan facility.  In addition, in December 2010, the Company utilized $395,000 of its revolver commitments to make a $395,000 equity contribution in Bresnan Cable.
On May 27, 2009, CSC Holdings entered into an agreement that provided for an extension of the maturity date from March 29, 2013 to March 29, 2016 of approximately $1,166,778 of the $3,395,000 then outstanding principal amount of the term B loan under its credit facility.  Consenting lenders received a one-time amendment fee of five basis points (.05%) on their total loan commitments.  Lenders who elected to extend their loan commitments will be paid an annual extension fee of 1.5% of their loan commitments through maturity on March 29, 2016.  In connection with the extension of these loan commitments, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $1,867.
The principal financial covenants for the Restricted Group credit facility are summarized below:
______________
These covenants and restrictions on the permitted use of borrowed funds in the revolving credit facility may limit CSC Holdings' ability to utilize all of the undrawn revolver funds.  Additional covenants include limitations on liens and the issuance of additional debt.
Under the revolving credit facility, the extended revolving loan facility, the term A-1 loan facility, the term A-3 extended loan facility, the term B loan facility, the term B-2 extended loan facility, and the term B-3 extended loan facility, there are generally no restrictions on investments that the Restricted Group may make, provided it is not in default; however, CSC Holdings must also remain in compliance with the maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow and the maximum senior secured leverage ratio (each as defined in the term A-1 loan facility).  CSC Holdings' ability to make restricted payments is also limited by provisions in the term B loan facility, term B-2 extended loan facility, term B-3 extended loan facility, and the indentures covering CSC Holdings' notes and debentures.
 
 
(42)
 
 
The Restricted Group was in compliance with all of its financial covenants under its various credit agreements as of December 31, 2010.
 
As of December 31, 2010, CSC Holdings was party to several interest rate swap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $2,600,000 that effectively fixed borrowing rates on a portion of the Company's floating rate debt.  Interest rate swap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $1,100,000 matured in March 2010.  These contracts are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  As a result of the CSC Holdings interest rate swap transactions, the interest rate paid on approximately 75% of the Company's outstanding debt (excluding capital leases and collateralized indebtedness) is effectively fixed (54% being fixed rate obligations and 21% is effectively fixed through utilization of these interest rate swap contracts) as of December 31, 2010.  The table below summarizes certain terms of these interest rate swap contracts as of December 31, 2010:
______________
Newsday LLC
We currently expect that net funding and investment requirements for Newsday LLC for the next 12 months will be met with one or more of the following: cash on hand, cash generated by operating activities, interest income from the Cablevision senior notes held by Newsday Holdings LLC, capital contributions and intercompany advances.
 
Newsday LLC's $650,000 senior secured credit facility is comprised of two components: a $525,000 10.50% fixed rate term loan facility and a $125,000 floating rate term loan facility.   The senior secured credit facility matures on August 1, 2013 and, subject to certain exceptions, requires mandatory prepayments out of the proceeds of certain sales of property or assets, insurance proceeds and debt and equity issuances.  No mandatory prepayments are required prior to July 29, 2011, and the amount of prepayments thereafter are limited to $105,000 in the aggregate prior to July 29, 2012 and $140,000 in the aggregate prior to the maturity date.  Optional prepayments are also permitted, subject to specified prepayment premiums.
 
The principal financial covenant for the senior secured credit facility is a minimum liquidity test of $25,000, which is tested bi-annually on June 30 and December 31.  The senior secured credit facility also contains other affirmative and negative covenants, subject to certain exceptions, including limitations on indebtedness (other than permitted senior indebtedness (as defined) not exceeding $50,000 and permitted subordinated indebtedness (as defined) to be used for investments not to exceed $100,000), investments (other than investments out of excess cash flow and out of the proceeds of the Cablevision senior notes in excess of the outstanding borrowings and out of a $40,000 basket), and dividends and other restricted payments (other than in respect of management and guarantee fees and restricted payments out of excess cash flow and out of the proceeds of the Cablevision senior notes in excess of the outstanding borrowings).  Certain of the covenants applicable to CSC Holdings under the Newsday LLC senior secured credit facility are similar to the covenants applicable to CSC Holdings under its outstanding senior notes.
 
 
(43)
 
 
Newsday LLC was in compliance with all of its financial covenants under its credit agreement as of December 31, 2010.
 
Borrowings by Newsday LLC under its senior secured credit facility are guaranteed by Newsday Holdings LLC, NMG Holdings, Inc. and CSC Holdings on a senior unsecured basis and secured by a lien on the assets of Newsday LLC, and the Cablevision senior notes receivable held by Newsday Holdings LLC.
Bresnan Cable
Credit Facility Debt
We currently expect that net funding and investment requirements for Bresnan Cable for the next 12 months will be met with one or more of the following: cash on hand, cash generated by operating activities and borrowings under its credit facility.
a $840,000 senior secured credit facility which is comprised of two components
Bresnan Cable has
: a $765,000 term loan facility and a $75,000 revolving credit facility (collectively, the "Bresnan Credit Agreement").  In connection with the financing of the Bresnan acquisition, the full $765,000 amount of the term loan facility was drawn, net of an original issue discount of approximately $7,700. The revolving credit facility, which includes a $25,000 sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $5,000 sublimit for swingline loans, was not drawn in connection with the transaction. Such revolving credit facility is expected to be available to provide for ongoing working capital requirements and for other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Borrowings under the Bresnan Credit Agreement bear interest at a floating rate, which at the option of Bresnan Cable may be either 2.0% over a floating base rate or 3.0% over an adjusted LIBOR rate, subject to a LIBOR floor of 1.50%. The Bresnan Credit Agreement requires Bresnan Cable to pay a commitment fee of 0.75% in respect of the average daily unused commitments under the revolving credit facility. Bresnan Cable is also required to pay customary letter of credit fees, as well as fronting fees, to banks that issue letters of credit pursuant to the Bresnan Credit Agreement.
All obligations under the Bresnan Credit Agreement are guaranteed by Holdings Sub (the direct parent of Bresnan Cable) and each of Bresnan Cable's existing and future direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are not designated as unrestricted subsidiaries in accordance with the Bresnan Credit Agreement (the "Guarantors"). All obligations under the Bresnan Credit Agreement, including the guarantees of those obligations, will be secured by certain assets of the Bresnan Cable and the Guarantors, including a pledge of the equity interests of Bresnan Cable.
Bresnan Cable may voluntarily prepay outstanding loans under the Bresnan Credit Agreement at any time after December 14, 2011, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty (except for customary breakage costs with respect to Eurodollar loans, if applicable). On or prior to December 14, 2011, if Bresnan Cable makes a prepayment of term loans in connection with certain refinancing transactions, Bresnan Cable must pay a prepayment premium of 1% of the amount of term loans prepaid.
With certain exceptions, Bresnan Cable is required to make mandatory prepayments in certain circumstances, including (i) a specified percentage of excess cash flow beginning in 2012 depending on its cash flow ratio, (ii) from the net cash proceeds of certain sales of assets (subject to reinvestment rights), (iii) from casualty insurance and/or condemnation proceeds, and (iv) upon the incurrence of certain indebtedness.
In connection with the Bresnan Credit Agreement, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $20,542, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the credit agreement.
The Bresnan Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and also requires Bresnan Cable to comply with the following financial covenants: (i) a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to operating cash flow of 8.00:1 decreasing to 5.00:1 on and after March 31, 2014; (ii) a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to interest expense of 2.00:1 increasing to 2.75:1 on and after March 31, 2014, and (iii) minimum liquidity of $25,000.  
 
(44)
 
 
Bresnan Cable Notes
.The Bresnan Notes In connection with the issuance of these senior notes, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $5,553, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of these senior notes.
On December 14, 2010, in connection with the financing of the Bresnan acquisition, BBHI Acquisition LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, issued $250,000 aggregate principal amount of 8% senior notes due December 15, 2018 (the "Bresnan Notes")
 
are guaranteed by all of Bresnan Cable's (the successor entity to BBHI Acquisition LLC) existing subsidiaries and will be guaranteed by certain of Bresnan Cable's future subsidiaries.   At any time prior to December 15, 2013, the Company may redeem some or all of the Notes at a specified "make-whole" price plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.  Beginning on or after December 15, 2013, the Company may redeem some or all of the Notes at a redemption price equal to 106% declining annually to 100% beginning on December 15, 2016.  
Monetization Contract Maturities
The following monetization contracts of our Comcast common stock matured since January 1, 2010:
We settled our obligations under the related collateralized indebtedness by delivering cash from the net proceeds of new monetization transactions on our Comcast common stock that will mature April, June and August 2012 and January 2013.
During the next 12 months, monetization contracts covering 10,738,809 shares of Comcast common stock mature.  The Company intends to either settle such transactions by delivering shares of the Comcast common stock and the related equity derivative contracts or by delivering cash from the net proceeds of new monetization transactions.
See "Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a discussion of our monetization contracts.
 
(45)
 
 
Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Commitments
 
The Company's contractual obligations to third parties as of December 31, 2010 (excluding obligations of AMC Networks), which consist primarily of our debt obligations and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods, are summarized in the following table:
______________
See discussion above regarding payment options the Company has on its monetization contracts.  See Notes 10 and 11 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our long-term debt.  See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our operating leases.  See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our program rights obligations.
 
 
(46)
 
 
At any time after the thirteenth anniversary of the closing of the Newsday Transaction and on or prior to the date that is six months after such anniversary, Tribune Company will have the right to require CSC Holdings to purchase Tribune Company's entire interest in Newsday Holdings LLC at the fair value of the interest at that time (see Note 4 to the Company's consolidated financial statements).  The table above does not include any future payments that would be required upon the exercise of this put right.
Other Events
AMC Networks Distribution
On June 30, 2011, Cablevision distributed to its stockholders all of the outstanding common stock of AMC Networks (formerly Rainbow Media Holdings LLC), a company which consists principally of national programming networks, including AMC, WE tv, IFC and Sundance Channel, and other services which consist primarily of AMC/Sundance Channel Global, an international programming business, IFC Entertainment, an independent film distribution business, and AMC Networks Broadcasting & Technology (formerly Rainbow Network Communications), a network technical services business, previously owned and operated by the Company's Rainbow segment.  The AMC Networks Distribution took the form of a distribution by Cablevision of one share of AMC Networks Class A Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class A Common Stock held of record on June 16, 2011 (the "AMC Networks Distribution Record Date") and one share of AMC Networks Class B Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class B Common Stock held of record on the AMC Networks Distribution Record Date.  As a result of the AMC Networks Distribution, on June 30, 2011, the Company no longer consolidates the financial results of AMC Networks for the purpose of its own financial reporting and the historical financial results of AMC Networks have been reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the AMC Networks Distribution date.
Acquisition of Bresnan Cable
On December 14, 2010, each of which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision, consummated the merger contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Holdings Sub, Acquisition Sub, CSC Holdings, Bresnan Broadband Holdings, LLC ("Bresnan Cable") and Providence Equity Bresnan Cable LLC dated June 13, 2010 (the "Merger Agreement").  Acquisition Sub merged with and into Bresnan Cable, with Bresnan Cable being the surviving entity, and becoming a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Holdings Sub and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision and CSC Holdings.  The purchase price was $1,366,157 subject to final working capital and certain other adjustments.  The acquisition was financed using an equity contribution by CSC Holdings of $395,000, which CSC Holdings borrowed under its revolving credit facility, and debt consisting of an undrawn $75,000 revolving credit facility, a $765,000 term loan facility and $250,000 8.0% senior notes due 2018.
BBHI Holdings LLC ("Holdings Sub"), BBHI Acquisition LLC ("Acquisition Sub") and CSC Holdings,
  For income tax purposes, the acquisition was treated as an asset acquisition with a full step-up in tax basis.
MSG Distribution
On February 9, 2010, Cablevision completed the MSG Distribution, which took the form of a distribution by Cablevision of one share of Madison Square Garden Class A Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class A Common Stock held of record on the MSG Distribution Record Date and one share of Madison Square Garden Class B Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class B Common Stock held of record on the MSG Distribution Record Date.  On January 12, 2010, the Company transferred to Madison Square Garden the Company's subsidiaries which owned, directly or indirectly, all of the partnership interests in Madison Square Garden, L.P.  As a result of the MSG Distribution, on February 9, 2010, the Company no longer consolidates the financial results of Madison Square Garden for the purpose of its own financial reporting and the historical financial results of Madison Square Garden have been reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the MSG Distribution date.
 
(47)
 
 
Common Stock Repurchase
In June 2010, Cablevision's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500,000 of CNYG Class A common stock.  Under the repurchase program, shares of CNYG Class A common stock may be purchased from time to time in the open market.  Size and timing of these purchases will be determined based on market conditions and other factors.  Funding for the repurchase program will be met with cash on hand and/or borrowings under CSC Holdings' revolving credit facility which would be distributed to Cablevision.  Through December 31, 2010, Cablevision repurchased an aggregate of 10,825,600 shares for a total cost of approximately $316,513, including commissions ($16,266 of unsettled purchases are reflected as a current liability at December 31, 2010).  These acquired shares have been classified as treasury stock in Cablevision's consolidated balance sheet.  As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $183,595 of availability remaining under our stock repurchase authorization.
For the period from January 1 through February 15, 2011, Cablevision repurchased an aggregate of 4,728,300 shares for a total cost of approximately $164,103, including commissions.
On February 15, 2011, Cablevision's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $500,000 of CNYG Class A common stock.
Dividends
The Board of Directors of Cablevision declared the following cash dividends to stockholders of record on both its CNYG Class A common stock and CNYG Class B common stock:
Cablevision paid dividends aggregating $140,734, $123,499, and $64,854 in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, primarily from the proceeds of dividend payments to Cablevision from CSC Holdings.  The CSC Holdings dividend payments to Cablevision were funded from cash on hand.  In addition, as of December 31, 2010, up to approximately $7,461 will be paid when, and if, restrictions lapse on restricted shares outstanding.
On February 15, 2011, the Board of Directors of Cablevision declared a cash dividend of $0.125 per share payable on March 21, 2011 to stockholders of record on both its CNYG Class A common stock and CNYG Class B common stock as of February 28, 2011.
 
(48)
 
 
During the year ended December 31, 2010, CSC Holdings made distributions to Cablevision, its sole shareholder, aggregating $556,272.  The proceeds were used to fund:
During the year ended December 31, 2009, CSC Holdings made distributions to Cablevision, aggregating $790,082.  The proceeds were used to fund:
In 2008, CSC Holdings made distributions of $52,076 to Cablevision, which it used to fund dividend payments.  In addition, in 2008, CSC Holdings made advances to Cablevision aggregating $144,559.
Aircraft Arrangements
On February 16, 2011, a subsidiary of the Company entered into an Aircraft Dry Lease Agreement with Sterling Aviation LLC ("Sterling"), an entity owned by members of the Dolan family, pursuant to which Sterling has agreed to make a G-IV aircraft available for use by the Company on a non-exclusive basis.  The cost to the Company is equal to certain operating costs of the aircraft while in use by the Company and an amount equal to twice the actual fuel costs.  The new agreement replaces the existing Time Sharing Agreement between the Company and another entity controlled by the Dolan family covering the same aircraft and is intended to replicate the economics of that agreement.
Managing our Interest Rate and Equity Price Risk
Interest Rate Risk
To manage interest rate risk, we have entered into various interest rate swap contracts to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable interest rates.  Such contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates.  We do not enter into interest rate swap contracts for speculative or trading purposes.  We monitor the financial institutions that are counterparties to our interest rate swap contracts and we only enter into interest rate swap contracts with financial institutions that are rated investment grade.  We diversify our swap contracts among various counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution.
Interest rate risk is primarily a result of exposures to changes in the level, slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates and credit spreads.
 
(49)
 
 
All interest rate swap contracts are carried at their fair values on our consolidated balance sheets, with changes in value reflected in our consolidated statements of operations.
Equity Price Risk
We have entered into derivative contracts to hedge our equity price risk and monetize the value of our shares of common stock of Comcast Corporation.  These contracts, at maturity, are expected to offset declines in the fair value of these securities below the hedge price per share while allowing us to retain upside appreciation from the hedge price per share to the relevant cap price.  If any one of these contracts is terminated prior to its scheduled maturity date due to the occurrence of an event specified in the contract, we would be obligated to repay the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and equity collar, calculated at the termination date.  As of December 31, 2010, we did not have an early termination shortfall relating to any of these contracts.  The underlying stock and the equity collars are carried at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets and the collateralized indebtedness is carried at its accreted value.
See "Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for information on how we participate in changes in the market price of the stocks underlying these derivative contracts.
All of our monetization transactions are obligations of our wholly-owned subsidiaries that are not part of the Restricted Group; however, CSC Holdings provides guarantees of the subsidiaries' ongoing contract payment expense obligations and potential payments that could be due as a result of an early termination event (as defined in the agreements).  The guarantee exposure approximates the net sum of the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and the equity collar.  All of our equity derivative contracts are carried at their current fair value on our consolidated balance sheets with changes in value reflected in our consolidated statements of operations, and all of the counterparties to such transactions currently carry investment grade credit ratings.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
In December 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2010-28, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts.  ASU No. 2010-28 modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist.  ASU No. 2010-28 will be effective for the Company on January 1, 2011.  Early adoption is not permitted.  The adoption of ASU No. 2010-28 will have no impact on our financial statements.
he FASB issued ASU No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements  ASU No. 2010-06 outlines certain new disclosures and clarifies some existing disclosure requirements about fair value measurement as set forth in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 820-10.  ASU No. 2010-06 amends ASC Topic 820-10 to now require that (a) a reporting entity disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and describe the reasons for the transfers; and (b) in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs, a reporting entity should present separately information about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements.  In addition, ASU No. 2010-06 clarifies existing disclosures on (a) how a reporting entity should provide fair value measurement disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities, and (b) how a reporting entity should provide disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements.  ASU No. 2010-06 became effective in 2010, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements.  These disclosures will be effective in the first quarter of 2011.  We will provide the additional required disclosures pursuant to the guidance under ASU No. 2010-06 when applicable.
In January 2010, t
.
 
(50)
 
 
In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-13, Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which provides amendments that (a) update the criteria for separating consideration in multiple-deliverable arrangements, (b) establish a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable, and (c) replace the term "fair value" in the revenue allocation guidance with the term "selling price" to clarify that the allocation of revenue is based on entity-specific assumptions.  ASU No. 2009-13 eliminates the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration to deliverables, requires the use of the relative selling price method and requires that a vendor determine its best estimate of selling price in a manner consistent with that used to determine the price to sell the deliverable on a standalone basis.  ASU No. 2009-13 requires a vendor to significantly expand the disclosures related to multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements with the objective to provide information about the significant judgments made and changes to those judgments and how the application of the relative selling-price method affects the timing or amount of revenue recognition.  ASU No. 2009-13 is required to be adopted on a prospective basis to revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified on or after January 1, 2011.
 
(51)

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cablevision Systems Corporation:
We have audited Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established inInternal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  Cablevision Systems Corporation's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying in Item 9A.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
 
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
In conducting the Company's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, management excluded the operations of Bresnan Broadband Holdings, LLC ("Bresnan") which was acquired by the Company during the fourth quarter of 2010.  Bresnan represented approximately $1.46 billion of the Company's total assets as of December 31, 2010 and approximately $22.1 million of the Company's total revenues for the year then ended.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries also excluded an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of Bresnan.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' deficiency and comprehensive income (loss),  and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, and our report dated February 16, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
Melville, New York
February 16, 2011
 
I-1
 
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cablevision Systems Corporation:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders deficiency and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedules listed in Item 15(a)(2). These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 16, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
Melville, New York
February 16, 2011, except for the effects of the
AMC Networks Inc. discontinued operation
discussed in Note 7, as  to which the date
is October 31 2011
,
 
I-2
 
 
The Board of Directors and Sole Member
CSC Holdings, LLC:
We have audited CSC Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established inInternal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  CSC Holdings, LLC's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying in Item 9A.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
 
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, CSC Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
In conducting the Company's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, management excluded the operations of Bresnan Broadband Holdings, LLC ("Bresnan") which was acquired by the Company during the fourth quarter of 2010.  Bresnan represented approximately $1.46 billion of the Company's total assets as of December 31, 2010 and approximately $22.1 million of the Company's total revenues for the year then ended.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries also excluded an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of Bresnan.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of CSC Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in total deficiency and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, and our report dated February 16, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
Melville, New York
February 16, 2011
 
I-3
 
 
The Board of Directors and Sole Member
CSC Holdings, LLC:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of CSC Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in total deficiency and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedules listed in Item 15(a)(2). These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of CSC Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), CSC Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 16, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
Melville, New York
February 16, 2011, except for the effects of the
AMC Networks Inc. discontinued operation
discussed in Note 7, as  to which the date
is October 31 2011
,
 
I-4
 
 
 
 
I-5
 
 
 
 
I-6
 
 
 
 
I-7
 
 
 
I-8
 
 
I-9
 
 
 
I-10
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
I-11
 
 
 
I-12
 
 
I-13
 
 
I-14
 
 
I-15
 
 
I-16
 
 
I-17
 
 
I-18
 
 
I-19
 
 
I-20
 
 
 
The Company and Related Matters
Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") and its wholly-owned subsidiary CSC Holdings, LLC ("CSC Holdings," and collectively with Cablevision, the "Company") own and operate cable television systems and, through Rainbow Media Holdings LLC ("Rainbow Media Holdings"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of CSC Holdings, had ownership interests in national and international programming networks.  The Company also owns companies that provide advertising sales services for the cable television industry, provide telephone service, operate motion picture theaters and operate a newspaper publishing business.  The Company classifies its operations into two reportable segments:  (1) Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of its video, high-speed data, Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") and its commercial data and voice services operations; and (2) Other, consisting principally of (i) Newsday, which includes the Newsday daily newspaper, amNew York, Star Community Publishing Group, and online websites including newsday.com and exploreLI.com, (ii) our motion picture theater business ("Clearview Cinemas"), (iii) the News 12 Networks, our regional news programming services, (iv) the MSG Varsity network, our network dedicated entirely to showcasing high school sports and activities, (v) our cable television advertising company, Rainbow Advertising Sales Corporation ("RASCO"), and (vi) certain other businesses and unallocated corporate costs.
On June 30, 2011, Cablevision distributed to its stockholders all of the outstanding common stock of AMC Networks Inc. ("AMC Networks" formerly Rainbow Media Holdings), a company which consists principally of national programming networks, including AMC, WE tv, IFC and Sundance Channel, previously owned and operated by the Company's Rainbow segment (the "AMC Networks Distribution").  The AMC Networks Distribution took the form of a distribution by Cablevision of one share of AMC Networks Class A Common Stock for every four shares of Cablevision NY Group ("CNYG") Class A Common Stock held of record on June 16, 2011 (the "AMC Networks Distribution Record Date") and one share of AMC Networks Class B Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class B Common Stock held of record on the AMC Networks Distribution Record Date.  As a result of the AMC Networks Distribution on June 30, 2011, the Company will no longer consolidate the financial results of AMC Networks for the purpose of its own financial reporting and the historical financial results of AMC Networks have been reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the AMC Networks Distribution date.
On February 9, 2010, Cablevision distributed to its stockholders all of the outstanding common stock of Madison Square Garden, Inc. ("Madison Square Garden"), a company which owns the sports, entertainment and media businesses previously owned and operated by the Company's Madison Square Garden segment (the "MSG Distribution").  The MSG Distribution took the form of a distribution by Cablevision of one share of Madison Square Garden Class A Common Stock for every four shares of Cablevision NY Group ("CNYG") Class A Common Stock held of record at the close of business in New York City on January 25, 2010 (the "MSG Distribution Record Date") and one share of Madison Square Garden Class B Common Stock for every four shares of CNYG Class B Common Stock held of record on the MSG Distribution Record Date.  On January 12, 2010, the Company transferred to Madison Square Garden the Company's subsidiaries which owned, directly or indirectly, all of the partnership interests in Madison Square Garden, L.P.  As a result of the MSG Distribution on February 9, 2010, the Company no longer consolidates the financial results of Madison Square Garden for the purpose of its own financial reporting and the historical financial results of Madison Square Garden have been reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the MSG Distribution date.
 
I-21
 
Assets and liabilities related to the MSG Distribution and AMC Networks Distribution on the Company's consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 and related footnotes have been reclassified as assets distributed to shareholders/sole member in 2011 and 2010 and liabilities distributed to shareholders/sole member in 2011 and 2010.  All assets and liabilities distributed to shareholders/sole member in 2011 and 2010 are excluded from the footnotes unless otherwise noted.  Accounts payable to and advances to Madison Square Garden and AMC Networks that were previously eliminated in consolidation are now being presented as amounts due from affiliates or amounts due to affiliates on the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
Principles of Consolidation
  
The accompanying consolidated financial statements of Cablevision include the accounts of Cablevision and its majority-owned subsidiaries and the accompanying consolidated financial statements of CSC Holdings include the accounts of CSC Holdings and its majority-owned subsidiaries.  Cablevision has no business operations independent of its CSC Holdings subsidiary, whose operating results and financial position are consolidated into Cablevision.  The consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations for Cablevision are essentially identical to the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations for CSC Holdings, with the following significant exceptions:  Cablevision has $2,165,688 of senior notes outstanding at December 31, 2010 (excluding the $753,717 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision senior notes held by its subsidiary Newsday Holdings LLC discussed in Note 10) that were issued to third party investors, cash, deferred financing costs and accrued interest related to its senior notes, deferred taxes and accrued dividends on its balance sheet and CSC Holdings and its subsidiaries have certain intercompany receivables from Cablevision.
Differences between Cablevision's results of operations from those of CSC Holdings primarily include incremental interest expense, interest income, loss on extinguishment of debt, write-off of deferred financing costs, and income tax expense or benefit
.
CSC Holdings' results of operations include incremental interest income from the Cablevision
senior notes held by Newsday Holdings LLC and the accretion of the discount on the
8%
senior notes due 2012 issued by
Cablevision to Newsday
Holdings LLC
that were redeemed during the second quarter of 2010 (which were replaced with the $753,717 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision notes discussed in Note 10), all of which eliminate in Cablevision's results of operations.
The combined notes to the consolidated financial statements relate to the Company, which, except as noted, are essentially identical for Cablevision and CSC Holdings.  All significant intercompany transactions and balances between Cablevision and CSC Holdings and their respective consolidated subsidiaries are eliminated in both sets of consolidated financial statements.  Intercompany transactions between Cablevision and CSC Holdings do not eliminate in the CSC Holdings consolidated financial statements, but do eliminate in the Cablevision consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition
The Company recognizes video, high-speed data, VoIP, and telephony revenues as the services are provided to subscribers.  Installation revenue for the Company's video, consumer high-speed data and VoIP services is recognized as installations are completed, as direct selling costs have exceeded this revenue in all periods reported.
The Company's Newsday business recognizes publication advertising revenue when advertisements are published.  Website advertising revenue is recognized ratably over the contract period or as services are delivered, as appropriate.  Rebates are recorded throughout the year as a reduction to advertising revenue based upon contract performance.  Newsday recognizes circulation revenue for single copy sales as newspapers are distributed, net of returns.  Proceeds from advance billings for home-delivery subscriptions are recorded as deferred revenue and are recognized as revenue on a pro-rata basis over the term of the subscriptions.
 
I-22
 
Advertising revenues are recognized when commercials are aired.
Revenues derived from other sources are recognized when services are provided or events occur.
Multiple-Element Transactions
If there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value for all elements of accounting in a multiple-element arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate elements of accounting based on relative fair values.  There may be cases in which there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered items in an arrangement but no such evidence for the delivered items.  In those cases, the Company utilizes the residual method to allocate the arrangement consideration.  Under the residual method, the amount of consideration allocated to the delivered items equals the total arrangement consideration less the aggregate fair value of the undelivered items.  In determining fair value, the Company refers to historical transactions or comparable cash transactions.
On January 1, 2011, the Company adopted Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") No. 2009-13, Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which is applicable on a prospective basis to revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified on or after January 1, 2011.  ASU No. 2009-13 eliminates the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration to deliverables, requires the use of the relative selling price method and requires that the Company determine its best estimate of selling price in a manner consistent with that used to determine the price to sell the deliverable on a standalone basis.
The Company may enter into affiliation agreements which are documented in one or more contracts; however negotiated contemporaneously.  Amounts paid/received by the Company may differ from the amounts that would have been paid/received if such arrangements were negotiated separately.  Judgments made in determining fair value impact the amount and period in which revenues are recognized over the term of the individual affiliation agreements.
Gross Versus Net Revenue Recognition
In the normal course of business, the Company is assessed non-income related taxes by governmental authorities, including franchising authorities, and collects such taxes from its customers.  The Company's policy is that, in instances where the tax is being assessed directly on the Company, amounts paid to the governmental authorities and amounts received from the customers are recorded on a gross basis.  That is, amounts paid to the governmental authorities are recorded as technical and operating expenses and amounts received from the customer are recorded as revenues.  For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the amount of franchise fees included as a component of net revenue aggregated $134,730, $127,716, and $121,540, respectively.
Technical and Operating Expenses
Costs of revenue related to sales of services are classified as "technical and operating" expenses in the accompanying statements of operations.
 
I-23
 
Programming Costs
Programming expenses for the Company's cable television business included in the Telecommunications Services segment relate to fees paid to programming distributors to license the programming distributed to subscribers.  This programming is acquired generally under multi-year distribution agreements, with rates usually based on the number of subscribers that receive the programming.  There have been periods when an existing affiliation agreement has expired and the parties have not finalized negotiations of either a renewal of that agreement or a new agreement for certain periods of time.  In substantially all these instances, the Company continues to carry and pay for these services until execution of definitive replacement agreements or renewals.  The amount of programming expense recorded during this interim period is based on the Company's estimates of the ultimate contractual agreement expected to be reached, and such estimates are adjusted based on the current status of negotiations until new programming terms are finalized.
In addition, the Company's cable television business has received, or may receive, incentives from programming distributors for carriage of the distributors' programming.  The Company generally recognizes these incentives as a reduction of programming costs in technical and operating expense, generally over the term of the programming agreement.
Advertising Expenses
Advertising costs are charged to expense when incurred and are recorded to "technical and operating" and "selling, general and administrative" expenses in the accompanying statements of operations.  Advertising costs amounted to $164,314, $157,777 and $150,941 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Income Taxes
The Company's provision for income taxes is based on current period income, changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in estimates with regard to uncertain tax positions.  Deferred tax assets are subject to an ongoing assessment of realizability.  The Company provides deferred taxes for the outside basis difference of its investment in partnerships.  Interest and penalties, if any, associated with uncertain tax positions are included in income tax expense.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company's cash investments are placed with money market funds and financial institutions that are investment grade as rated by Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service.  The Company selects money market funds that predominantly invest in marketable direct obligations issued or guaranteed by the United States government or its agencies, commercial paper, fully collateralized repurchase agreements, certificates of deposit, and time deposits.
The Company considers the balance of its investment in funds that substantially hold securities that mature within three months or less from the date the fund purchases these securities to be cash equivalents.  The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents either approximates fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments or are at fair value.
 
I-24
 
Accounts Receivable
The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of valuation allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable by evaluating the collectibility of outstanding receivables and general factors such as length of time individual receivables are past due, historical collection experience, and the economic and competitive environment.
Investments
Investment securities and investment securities pledged as collateral are classified as trading securities and are stated at fair value with realized and unrealized holding gains and losses included in net income (loss).
Long-Lived and Indefinite-Lived Assets
Property, plant and equipment, including construction materials, are carried at cost, and include all direct costs and certain indirect costs associated with the construction of cable television transmission and distribution systems, and the costs of new product and subscriber installations.  Equipment under capital leases is recorded at the present value of the total minimum lease payments.  Depreciation on equipment is calculated on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets or, with respect to equipment under capital leases and leasehold improvements, amortized over the shorter of the lease term or the assets' useful lives and reported in depreciation and amortization (including impairments) in the consolidated statements of operations.
Intangible assets established in connection with acquisitions consist of primarily customer relationships, advertiser relationships, other intangibles, and goodwill.  These intangible assets are amortized in a manner that reflects the pattern in which the projected net cash inflows to the Company are expected to occur, such as the sum of the years' digits method, or when such pattern does not exist, using the straight-line basis over their respective estimated useful lives.  Goodwill and the value of franchises, trademarks, licenses and certain other intangibles acquired in purchase business combinations which have indefinite useful lives are not amortized.
The Company reviews its long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets subject to amortization that arose from acquisitions) for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  If the sum of the expected cash flows, undiscounted and without interest, is less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value.
The Company evaluates the recoverability of its goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually or more frequently whenever events or circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired.  Goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step process.  The first step of the goodwill impairment test is used to identify potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill utilizing an enterprise-value based premise approach.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss, if any.  The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.  If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill which would be recognized in a business combination.
 
I-25
 
The impairment test for other intangible assets not subject to amortization consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value.  If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
Deferred Financing Costs
Costs incurred to obtain debt are deferred and amortized to interest expense over the life of the related debt.
Common Stock of Cablevision
Each holder of CNYG Class A common stock has one vote per share while holders of CNYG Class B common stock have ten votes per share.  CNYG Class B shares can be converted to CNYG Class A common stock at anytime with a conversion ratio of one CNYG Class A common share for one CNYG Class B common share.  The CNYG Class A stockholders are entitled to elect 25% of Cablevision's Board of Directors.  CNYG Class B stockholders have the right to elect the remaining members of Cablevision's Board of Directors.  In addition, CNYG Class B stockholders are parties to an agreement which has the effect of causing the voting power of these CNYG Class B stockholders to be cast as a block.
CSC Holdings Equity Interests
CSC Holdings, Inc. had 20,000,000 common shares authorized of which 12,825,631 were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2008.  Each common share had one vote per share and all shares were owned by Cablevision.
In October 2009, CSC Holdings issued 1,607,119 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value, to Cablevision in consideration of a cash contribution of $869,600.  CSC Holdings used these proceeds, along with borrowings under its credit facility, to repurchase a portion of its outstanding senior notes pursuant to the CSC Holdings September tender offer (see Note 10).
 
I-26
 
On November 10, 2009, CSC Holdings, Inc. converted its form of business organization from a corporation to a limited liability company.  All 14,432,750 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value, that were outstanding while it was a corporation were converted into the same number of membership units.
Dividends
Cablevision may pay dividends on its capital stock only from surplus as determined under Delaware law.  If dividends are paid on the CNYG common stock, holders of the CNYG Class A common stock and CNYG Class B common stock are entitled to receive dividends, and other distributions in cash, stock or property, equally on a per share basis, except that stock dividends with respect to CNYG Class A common stock may be paid only with shares of CNYG Class A common stock and stock dividends with respect to CNYG Class B common stock may be paid only with shares of CNYG Class B common stock.
CSC Holdings may make distributions on its membership interests only if sufficient funds exist as determined under Delaware law.
Cablevision's senior notes and debentures, as well as certain senior notes and debentures of CSC Holdings and its subsidiaries restrict the amount of dividends and distributions in respect of any equity interests that can be made.
The Board of Directors of Cablevision declared the following cash dividends to stockholders of record on both its CNYG Class A common stock and CNYG Class B common stock:
Cablevision paid dividends aggregating $140,734, $123,499, and $64,854 in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, primarily from the proceeds of dividend payments to Cablevision from CSC Holdings.  The CSC Holdings dividend payments to Cablevision were funded from cash on hand.  In addition, as of December 31, 2010, up to approximately $7,461 will be paid when, and if, restrictions lapse on restricted shares outstanding.
During the year ended December 31, 2010, CSC Holdings made distributions to Cablevision, its sole shareholder, aggregating $556,272.  The proceeds were used to fund:
 
I-27
 
During the year ended December 31, 2009, CSC Holdings made distributions to Cablevision, aggregating $790,082.  The proceeds were used to fund:
In 2008, CSC Holdings made distributions of $52,076 to Cablevision, which it used to fund dividend payments.  In addition, in 2008, CSC Holdings made advances to Cablevision aggregating $144,559.
Income (Loss) Per Common Share
Cablevision
Basic net income per common share for Cablevision is computed by dividing net income attributable to Cablevision shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.  Diluted net income per common share attributable to Cablevision shareholders reflects the dilutive effects of stock options (including those held by Madison Square Garden employees), restricted stock (including shares held by Madison Square Garden employees) and restricted stock units.
A reconciliation of the denominator of the basic and diluted net income per share calculation for Cablevision for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 is as follows:
 
 
Anti-dilutive shares (options whose exercise price exceeds the average market price of Cablevision's common stock during the period) totaling approximately 237,000 and 1,736,000 (which include Company options held by Madison Square Garden employees), have been excluded from diluted weighted average shares outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.
Since Cablevision generated a loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008, the outstanding common stock equivalents during this period were excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share as the impact would have been anti-dilutive.
CSC Holdings
Net income (loss) per membership unit for CSC Holdings is not presented since CSC Holdings is a limited liability company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision.
 
I-28
 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
Accumulated other comprehensive loss, which is reported in the accompanying consolidated statements of total deficiency and comprehensive income (loss) consists of other gains and losses affecting deficiency or attributed net assets that, under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), are excluded from net income (loss).  The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss consist primarily of defined benefit plans and postretirement liability adjustments, net of income taxes.
In 2010, the Company recorded a net non-cash gain to accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes, of $22,994 primarily reflecting a transfer of unrecognized actuarial losses and prior service credits to Madison Square Garden relating to Madison Square Garden sponsored plans, an increase in the discount rate at December 31, 2010, as well as an increase in fair value of the assets associated with certain of the Company's defined benefit plans.  Also, during 2010, the Company recognized a net reduction to the accumulated other comprehensive loss of $3,441, net of income taxes, primarily representing the amortization of previously recorded items in this account.
In 2009, the benefit obligation of certain of the Company's defined benefit pension plans exceeded the fair value of the plans' assets.  As a result, the Company recorded a non-cash charge to accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes, of $5,126.  This increase resulted primarily from the decline in the fair value of the assets associated with certain of the Company's defined benefit plans.  Also, during 2009, the Company recognized a reduction to the accumulated other comprehensive loss of $9,609, net of income taxes, (which included $9,567 relating to Madison Square Garden's defined benefit and postretirement plans) representing the amortization of previously recorded items in this account.
In 2008, the benefit obligation of certain of the Company's defined benefit pension plans exceeded the fair value of the plans' assets.  As a result, the Company recorded a non-cash charge to accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes, of $36,856.  This increase in the loss resulted primarily from the decline in the fair value of the assets associated with certain of the Company's defined benefit plans arising from the general equity market declines that occurred in 2008.  Also, during 2008, the Company recognized an increase to the accumulated other comprehensive loss of $1,026, net of income taxes, (including $985 relating to Madison Square Garden's defined benefit and postretirement plans) representing the amortization of previously recorded items in this account.
Share-Based Compensation
Share-based compensation expense recognized during the period is based on the fair value of the portion of share-based payment awards that are ultimately expected to vest.
For options and performance based option awards, Cablevision recognizes compensation expense based on the estimated grant date fair value using the Black-Scholes valuation model using a straight-line amortization method.  For restricted shares and restricted stock units, Cablevision recognizes compensation expense using a straight-line amortization method, based on the grant date price of CNYG Class A common stock over the vesting period, except for restricted stock units granted to non-employee directors which vest 100% and are expensed at the date of grant.  For stock appreciation rights, Cablevision recognizes compensation expense based on the estimated fair value at each reporting period using the Black-Scholes valuation model.
For CSC Holdings, share-based compensation expense is recognized in its statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 based on allocations from Cablevision.
 
I-29
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
The Company accounts for derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities measured at fair value.  The Company uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure to market risks from changes in certain equity prices and interest rates and does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes.  These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges, and changes in the fair values of these derivatives are recognized in earnings as gains (losses) on derivative contracts.
Concentrations of Credit Risk
Financial instruments that may potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade account receivables.  Cash is invested in money market funds and bank time deposits.  The Company did not have a single customer that represented 10% or more of its consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, or 10% or more of its consolidated net trade receivables at December 31, 2010 and 2009.
The Company monitors the financial institutions and money market funds where it invests its cash and cash equivalents with diversification among counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution.  The Company's emphasis is primarily on safety of principal and liquidity and secondarily on maximizing the yield on its investments.  
Use of Estimates in Preparation of Financial Statements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Commitments and Contingencies
Liabilities for loss contingencies arising from claims, assessments, litigation, fines and penalties and other sources are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the contingency can be reasonably estimated.
Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2009 financial statements to conform to the 2010 presentation.
 
I-30
 
During 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company's non-cash investing and financing activities and other supplemental data were as follows:
 
I-31
 
2010 Transactions
Acquisition of Bresnan Cable
On December 14, 2010, each of which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision, consummated the merger contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Holdings Sub, Acquisition Sub, CSC Holdings, Bresnan Broadband Holdings, LLC ("Bresnan Cable") and Providence Equity Bresnan Cable LLC dated June 13, 2010 (the "Merger Agreement").  Acquisition Sub merged with and into Bresnan Cable, with Bresnan Cable being the surviving entity, and becoming a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Holdings Sub and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Cablevision and CSC Holdings.  The purchase price was $1,366,157 subject to final working capital and certain other adjustments.  The acquisition was financed using an equity contribution by CSC Holdings of $395,000 (which CSC Holdings borrowed under its revolving credit facility) and debt consisting of an undrawn $75,000 revolving credit facility, a $765,000 term loan facility and $250,000 8.0% senior notes due 2018.
BBHI Holdings LLC ("Holdings Sub"), BBHI Acquisition LLC ("Acquisition Sub") and CSC Holdings,
  For income tax purposes, the acquisition was treated as an asset acquisition with a full step-up in tax basis.
The total estimated purchase price was allocated to the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their fair values.  The excess of the estimated purchase price over those fair values was recorded as goodwill.  The fair value assigned to the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based upon assumptions developed by management and other information compiled by management, including a preliminary purchase price allocation analysis.
The Company accounted for the acquisition of Bresnan Cable in accordance with Accounting Standard Codification ("ASC") Topic 805.  
The operating results of Bresnan Cable have been consolidated from the date of acquisition and are included in the Company's Telecommunications Services segment and the Company's Consumer Services reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing.
The following table provides the allocation of the estimated purchase price (excluding transaction costs of $8,924 which were expensed in 2010) of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on preliminary fair value information currently available, which is subject to change upon finalization:
______________
 
I-32
 
Identification and allocation of value to the identified intangible assets was based on the acquisition method of accounting. The fair value of the identified intangible assets was estimated by performing a discounted cash flow ("DCF") analysis using the "income" approach. Significant judgments in the preliminary purchase price included the selection of appropriate discount rates, estimating the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows attributable to the cable television franchises, identification of appropriate continuing growth rate assumptions and attributing the appropriate attrition factor for customer relationships.  The projected cash flow assumptions considered contractual relationships, customer attrition, eventual development of new technologies and market competition.  The discount rates used in the DCF analysis are intended to reflect the risk inherent in the projected future cash flows generated by the respective intangible assets.  This method includes a forecast of direct revenues and costs associated with the respective intangible assets and charges for economic returns on tangible and intangible assets utilized in cash flow generation. Net cash flows attributable to the identified intangible assets are discounted to their present value at a rate commensurate with the perceived risk.
Estimates of fair value were determined using discounted cash flows and comparable market transactions.  These valuations are based on estimates and assumptions including projected future cash flows, discount rate, determination of appropriate market comparables, average annual revenue per customer, number of homes passed, operating margin, market penetration as a percentage of homes passed, and determination of whether a premium or discount should be applied to comparables.
The estimates of expected useful lives take into consideration the effects of contractual relationships, customer attrition, eventual development of new technologies and market competition.
 
Revenues and loss from continuing operations before income taxes attributable to Bresnan Cable for the period from December 14, 2010 through December 31, 2010 amounted to approximately $22,135 and ($20,610), respectively which are included in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.
Approximately $166,700 of goodwill recorded in connection with the Bresnan Cable acquisition is deductible for tax purposes.
The unaudited pro forma revenues, income from continuing operations, net income, income per share from continuing operations and net income per share for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, as if the Bresnan acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2009, are as follows:
 
I-33
 
2008 Transactions
Newsday
On July 29, 2008, CSC Holdings and Tribune Company completed a series of transactions contemplated by the Formation Agreement, dated May 11, 2008, to form Newsday Holdings LLC and Newsday LLC, new limited liability companies that operate the Company's newspaper publishing business.  The newspaper publishing business ("Newsday Media Group") includes the Newsday daily newspaper which is primarily distributed on Long Island, New York and in the New York metropolitan area.  The Newsday Media Group also includes (i) amNew York, a free daily newspaper distributed in New York City, (ii) Star Community Publishing Group which is the Northeast's largest group of weekly shopper publications, (iii) Island Publications which produces targeted lifestyle magazines and selected tourism and business to business publications (through December 2008 when operations were shut down), and (iv) online websites including newsday.com and exploreLI.com.
On the closing date, Tribune Company, through its subsidiaries, contributed substantially all of the assets and liabilities of the Newsday Media Group to Newsday Holdings LLC, which in turn contributed such assets to Newsday LLC, its wholly-owned subsidiary, and CSC Holdings, through its subsidiary NMG Holdings, Inc., contributed approximately $682,000 aggregate principal amount of newly-issued 8% senior notes due 2012 of Cablevision with an approximate fair value of $650,000 to Newsday Holdings LLC (the "Newsday Transaction").  CSC Holdings issued approximately 1.2 million shares of common stock to Cablevision in consideration for its contribution of the newly-issued 8% senior notes due 2012. In 2010, Cablevision redeemed the senior notes held by Newsday Holdings LLC for $758,968.  Newsday Holdings LLC received $487,500 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision 7-3/4% senior notes due 2018 and $266,217 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision 8% senior notes due 2020, plus accrued interest.
 
Also, on July 29, 2008, Newsday LLC borrowed $650,000 under its new senior secured credit facility (see Note 10) and distributed cash of $612,000 on behalf of Newsday Holdings LLC to Tribune Company in connection with Tribune Company's contribution of the net assets of the Newsday Media Group and $18,000 for prepaid rent from the proceeds of that financing.  The remaining $20,000 was used by Newsday LLC for working capital purposes.  In addition, CSC Holdings provided $35,000 in additional funds to Newsday LLC, through a contribution to Newsday Holdings LLC, to pay certain transaction costs.  As a result of these transactions, CSC Holdings, through its subsidiary NMG Holdings, Inc. owns approximately 97.2% of the equity in Newsday Holdings LLC and Tribune Company, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, owns approximately 2.8% of the equity in Newsday Holdings LLC, which owns the Cablevision senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $682,000 and the Newsday Media Group business through its 100% ownership of Newsday LLC.
In connection with the formation of Newsday Holdings LLC and Newsday LLC, CSC Holdings and Tribune Company entered into a Tax Matters Agreement pursuant to which, among other things, CSC Holdings has agreed that it will indemnify Tribune Company for certain taxes incurred by Tribune Company if, prior to January 1, 2018, Newsday Holdings LLC and Newsday LLC sell or otherwise dispose of the Newsday Media Group business contributed by Tribune Company or fail to maintain outstanding indebtedness in specified minimum amounts over time (reducing to $320,000 from the ninth anniversary of closing through January 1, 2018).
At any time after the tenth anniversary of the closing of the transaction and prior to the thirteenth anniversary of the closing, CSC Holdings will have the right to purchase Tribune Company's entire interest in Newsday Holdings LLC.  At any time after the thirteenth anniversary of the closing and on or prior to the date that is six months after such anniversary, Tribune Company will have the right to require CSC Holdings to purchase Tribune Company's entire interest in Newsday Holdings LLC.  In either case, the purchase price will be the fair value of the interest at that time.
 
I-34
 
Newsday Holdings LLC and Newsday LLC are part of the Company's Unrestricted Group and are included in the Other segment for financial reporting purposes.
The Company accounted for the Newsday Transaction under the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations.  The total estimated purchase price was allocated to the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their fair values.  The excess of the estimated purchase price over those fair values was recorded as goodwill.  The fair value assigned to the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based upon assumptions developed by management and other information compiled by management, including a purchase price allocation analysis.  The results of Newsday's operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of the transaction in the Other segment.
For income tax purposes, Newsday Holdings LLC is treated as a partnership.  The Company determines deferred taxes with regard to investments in partnerships based on the difference between the outside tax basis and the investment account balance; this is commonly referred to as the "outside basis difference."  Upon consummation of the transaction, the Company received a 97.2% interest in Newsday Holdings LLC.  At the time of this transaction there was no outside basis difference and, therefore, no corresponding deferred tax asset or liability was recognized as an adjustment to the purchase price.  Although the Newsday Transaction did not result in a step up of the tax basis of Newsday assets, through special partnership allocations, the Company will receive tax deductions generally equivalent in amount to the deductions that would have resulted from a step up in tax basis.
The following table provides the allocation of the purchase price (including transaction costs of $10,717) to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed:
______________
See Note 6 regarding impairment charges recognized for Newsday relating to trademarks, other long-lived assets and goodwill as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.
 
I-35
 
The unaudited pro forma revenues, loss from continuing operations, net loss, loss per share from continuing operations and net loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2008, as if the Newsday Transaction had occurred on January 1, 2007, are as follows:
4Connections LLC
In October 2008, Optimum Lightpath completed the acquisition of 4Connections LLC for a purchase price of $49,631 which was funded by cash on hand.  This acquisition expanded Optimum Lightpath's ability to offer advanced Ethernet-based data and Internet voice products to businesses in the New Jersey region.
The following table summarizes the Newsday restructuring expense (credits) recognized during 2008, 2009 and 2010 in connection with its restructuring plans:
______________
In addition to the charges (credits) included in the table above, the Company recorded net restructuring credits of $246, $913 and $4,176 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily relating to changes to the Company's previous estimates recorded in connection with the Company's 2001, 2002 and 2006 facility realignment plans.
 
I-36
 
Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually for impairment during the first quarter of each year or earlier upon the occurrence of certain events or substantive changes in circumstances.  As a result of the continuing deterioration of values in the newspaper industry and the greater than anticipated economic downturn and its current and anticipated impact on Newsday's advertising business, the Company determined that a triggering event had occurred and the Company tested indefinite-lived intangibles, long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (the "interim testing dates").
The Company determined the fair value of Newsday based on a combination of the estimated fair market values determined under the income approach and the market approach.  The income approach utilizes a discounted cash flow valuation methodology, which requires the exercise of significant judgments, including judgments about appropriate discount rates based on the assessment of risks inherent in the projected future cash flows including the cash flows generated from synergies from a market participant's point of view, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, including expected cash flows beyond the Company's current long-term business planning period.  The market approach measures fair value using market multiples of various financial measures compared to a set of comparable public companies taking into consideration synergies a market participant may generate.  The market approach requires significant judgments determining comparable market multiples.  The estimated fair values of Newsday's indefinite-lived intangibles, which relate primarily to the trademarks associated with the newspaper mastheads, were based on discounted future cash flows calculated utilizing the relief-from-royalty method.  Changes in such estimates or the application of alternative assumptions could produce significantly different results.
The Company's impairment analysis of Newsday as of December 31, 2008 resulted in pre-tax impairment charges of $59,522, $8,199 and $333,159 related to indefinite-lived intangibles, certain long-lived intangible assets and goodwill, respectively, originally recorded by the Company in conjunction with its acquisition of Newsday on July 29, 2008 (see Note 4).  The net $400,880 pre-tax impairment charges recorded in 2008 are included in depreciation and amortization (including impairments) in the Other segment and the Company recognized an income tax benefit of $164,080, in addition to the allocation of such pre-tax impairment charges to the noncontrolling interest owner's basis in those assets.
The Company's impairment analysis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 resulted in pre-tax impairment charges of $7,800 and $2,000, respectively, related to the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of certain indefinite-lived intangibles.  These pre-tax impairment charges are included in depreciation and amortization (including impairments) in the Other segment.
In addition, the Company recorded impairment charges of $1,803, $1,436 and $1,067 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, included in depreciation and amortization.  These charges relate primarily to certain other long-lived assets related to the Company's theater operations and Newsday in the Other segment.
 
I-37
 
On June 30, 2011 and February 9, 2010, the Company completed the AMC Networks Distribution and the MSG Distribution, respectively, (see Note 1).  As a result, the operating results of the Company's Rainbow segment through the date of the AMC Networks Distribution and the operating results of the Company's Madison Square Garden segment through the date of the MSG Distribution, as well as transaction costs, have been classified in the consolidated statements of operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented.  No gain or loss was recognized in connection with the AMC Networks Distribution or the MSG Distribution.
Operating results of discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 (for the period from January 1, 2010 through February 9, 2010 for MSG) and December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 are summarized below:
 
______________
 
 
I-38
 
AMC Networks' results of operations reported on a stand-alone basis will differ from results presented above due to certain reclassifications and adjustments made for purposes of discontinued operations reporting.
The assets and liabilities of AMC Networks have been classified in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 as assets and liabilities distributed to shareholders/sole member and consist of the following:
The assets and liabilities of Madison Square Garden have been classified in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 as assets and liabilities distributed to shareholders/sole member and consist of the following:
 
I-39
 
Costs incurred in the construction of the Company's cable television system, including line extensions to, and upgrade of, the Company's hybrid fiber-coaxial infrastructure and headend facilities are capitalized.  These costs consist of materials, subcontractor labor, direct consulting fees, and internal labor and related costs associated with the construction activities.  The internal costs that are capitalized consist of salaries and benefits of the Company's employees and the portion of facility costs, including rent, taxes, insurance and utilities, that supports the construction activities.  These costs are depreciated over the estimated life of the plant (10-25 years), and headend facilities (4-25 years).  Costs of operating the plant and the technical facilities, including repairs and maintenance, are expensed as incurred.
Costs incurred to connect businesses or residences that have not been previously connected to the infrastructure or digital platform are also capitalized.  These costs include materials, subcontractor labor, internal labor to connect, provision and provide on-site and remote technical assistance and other related costs associated with the connection activities.  In addition, on-site and remote technical assistance during the provisioning process for new digital product offerings are capitalized.  The departmental activities supporting the connection process are tracked through specific metrics, and the portion of departmental costs that is capitalized is determined through a time weighted activity allocation of costs incurred based on time studies used to estimate the average time spent on each activity.  New connections are amortized over 5 years or 12 years for residence wiring and feeder cable to the home, respectively.  The portion of departmental costs related to reconnection, programming service up- and down- grade, repair and maintenance, and disconnection activities are expensed as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment (including equipment under capital leases) consist of the following assets, which are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives shown below:
See Note 4 for a discussion of property, plant and equipment acquired in connection with the Bresnan Cable acquisition in December 2010.
Depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment (including capital leases) for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 amounted to $859,750, $897,539 and $921,234 (including impairments of $1,803, $1,436 and $1,067 in 2010, 2009 and 2008), respectively.
 
I-40
 
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the gross amount of equipment and related accumulated amortization recorded under capital leases were as follows:
The following table summarizes information relating to the Company's acquired intangible assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009:
See Note 4 for a discussion of intangible assets acquired in connection with the Bresnan Cable acquisition in December 2010.
 
I-41
 
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:
______________
 
I-42
 
Credit Facility Debt
The following table provides details of the Company's outstanding credit facility debt:
______________
See Note 11 for details relating to interest rate swap contracts outstanding at December 31, 2010.
Restricted Group Credit Facility
On April 13, 2010, CSC Holdings and certain of its subsidiaries (the "Restricted Subsidiaries") entered into an amended credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), providing for (i) an amendment and restatement of the credit agreement, dated as of February 24, 2006, as first amended and restated in its entirety as of May 27, 2009 and further amended and restated in its entirety as of April 13, 2010, and (ii) an amendment to the Incremental Term Supplement, dated as of March 29, 2006 and amended as of May 27, 2009.
 
I-43
 
Among other things, the Credit Agreement provides for the specific mechanics of extending, from time to time, the revolving credit commitments, term A loans, incremental term loans and any additional facility commitments or additional facility loans, as applicable, with the terms of such extended facility to be documented at the time of such extension in an extended facility agreement.  Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, CSC Holdings entered into three extended facilities as of April 13, 2010, as follows:
On June 30, 2010, the availability period for $20,000 of revolving credit commitments under CSC Holdings' Revolving Credit Facility was extended to March 31, 2015 and the maturity date of $4,786 of loans under CSC Holdings' existing term A facility was extended to March 31, 2015.
The revolver has no required interim repayments.  The term A-1 loan facility requires quarterly repayments of approximately $17,254 in 2011.  The extended term A facility is subject to quarterly repayments of approximately $12,142 through March 2012, approximately $18,213 beginning in June 2012 through March 2013, approximately $24,284 beginning in June 2013 through March 2014 and approximately $54,640 beginning in June 2014 through its maturity date in March 2015.  The term B loan facility is subject to quarterly repayments of approximately $851 through March 2012 and approximately $80,000 beginning on June 30, 2012 through its maturity date in March 2013.  The term B-2 extended loan facility is subject to quarterly repayments of approximately $3,007 through December 2015 and a final payment of approximately $1,085,585 upon maturity in March 2016.  The term B-3 extended loan facility is subject to quarterly repayments of approximately $4,196 through December 2015 and a final payment of approximately $1,581,933 upon maturity in March 2016.  The borrowings under the Restricted Group credit facility may be repaid without penalty at any time.
 
I-44
 
Loans under the Restricted Group credit facility are direct obligations of CSC Holdings, guaranteed by most Restricted Group subsidiaries and secured by the pledge of the stock of most Restricted Group subsidiaries.
In April 2010, the Company utilized $200,000 of its increased revolver commitments to make a $200,000 pre-payment of the unextended term B loan facility.  In addition, in December 2010, the Company utilized $395,000 of its revolver commitments to make a $395,000 equity contribution in Bresnan Cable.
On May 27, 2009, CSC Holdings entered into an agreement that provided for an extension of the maturity date from March 29, 2013 to March 29, 2016 of approximately $1,166,778 of the $3,395,000 then outstanding principal amount of the term B loan under its credit facility.  Consenting lenders received a one-time amendment fee of five basis points (.05%) on their total loan commitments.  Lenders who elected to extend their loan commitments will be paid an annual extension fee of 1.5% of their loan commitments through maturity on March 29, 2016.  In connection with the extension of these loan commitments, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $1,867.
The principal financial covenants for the Restricted Group credit facility are summarized below:
______________
These covenants and restrictions on the permitted use of borrowed funds in the revolving credit facility may limit CSC Holdings' ability to utilize all of the undrawn revolver funds.  Additional covenants include limitations on liens and the issuance of additional debt.
Under the revolving credit facility, the extended revolving loan facility, the term A-1 loan facility, the term A-3 extended loan facility, the term B loan facility, the term B-2 extended loan facility, and the term B-3 extended loan facility, there are generally no restrictions on investments that the Restricted Group may make, provided it is not in default; however, CSC Holdings must also remain in compliance with the maximum ratio of total indebtedness to cash flow and the maximum senior secured leverage ratio (each as defined in the term A-1 loan facility).  CSC Holdings' ability to make restricted payments is also limited by provisions in the term B loan facility, term B-2 extended loan facility, term B-3 extended loan facility, and the indentures covering CSC Holdings' notes and debentures.
 
 
I-45
 
 
The Restricted Group was in compliance with all of its financial covenants under its various credit agreements as of December 31, 2010.
CSC Holdingsis obligated to pay fees of 0.25% to 0.50% per annum based on undrawn revolver commitment balances.
 
Newsday LLC Credit Facility
Newsday LLC's senior secured credit facility is comprised of two components: a $525,000 10.50% fixed rate term loan facility and a $125,000 floating rate term loan facility.  Borrowings by Newsday LLC under its senior secured credit facility are guaranteed by Newsday Holdings LLC, NMG Holdings, Inc. and CSC Holdings on a senior unsecured basis and secured by a lien on the assets of Newsday LLC, and the Cablevision senior notes held by Newsday Holdings LLC.  The senior secured credit facility matures on August 1, 2013 and, subject to certain exceptions, requires mandatory prepayments out of the proceeds of certain sales of property or assets, insurance proceeds and debt and equity issuances.  No mandatory prepayments are required prior to July 29, 2011, and the amount of prepayments thereafter are limited to $105,000 in the aggregate prior to July 29, 2012 and $140,000 in the aggregate prior to the maturity date.  Optional prepayments are also permitted, subject to specified prepayment premiums.
 
The principal financial covenant for the senior secured credit facility is a minimum liquidity test of $25,000, which is tested bi-annually on June 30 and December 31.  The senior secured credit facility also contains other affirmative and negative covenants, subject to certain exceptions, including limitations on indebtedness (other than permitted senior indebtedness (as defined) not exceeding $50,000 and permitted subordinated indebtedness (as defined) to be used for investments not to exceed $100,000), investments (other than investments out of excess cash flow and out of the proceeds of the Cablevision senior notes in excess of the outstanding borrowings and out of a $40,000 basket), and dividends and other restricted payments (other than in respect of management and guarantee fees and restricted payments out of excess cash flow and out of the proceeds of the Cablevision senior notes in excess of the outstanding borrowings).  Certain of the covenants applicable to CSC Holdings under the Newsday LLC senior secured credit facility are similar to the covenants applicable to CSC Holdings under its outstanding senior notes.
 
On October 28, 2009, Newsday LLC entered into an amendment to its credit facility that provides for:  (a) the replacement of a 1.1 to 1 consolidated interest coverage ratio covenant with the $25,000 minimum liquidity covenant described above, (b) an increase in the interest rate applicable for the $525,000 fixed rate term loan facility from 9.75% to 10.50%, (c) an increase in the interest rate margin applicable to the $125,000 floating rate term loan facility from 5.50% to 6.25% and (d) increases in the prepayment premiums applicable to repayments of term loans prior to maturity.  Newsday LLC paid each consenting lender a one-time fee equal to 0.25% of the lender's commitment.
 
Tribune Company has agreed to indemnify CSC Holdings with respect to any payments that CSC Holdings makes under its guarantee of the Newsday LLC senior secured credit facility.  Newsday LLC will generally be prohibited from using the proceeds received from any repayment of the Cablevision senior notes contributed to Newsday Holdings LLC by CSC Holdings to acquire non-publicly traded notes or debt instruments of Cablevision or CSC Holdings, and Newsday LLC will be required under its senior secured credit facility to maintain cash or cash equivalents or publicly traded notes or debt instruments of Cablevision or CSC Holdings with an aggregate principal amount that exceeds the then-outstanding borrowings by Newsday LLC under its senior secured credit facility.
 
I-46
 
Newsday LLC was in compliance with all of its financial covenants under its credit agreement as of December 31, 2010.
In connection with the Newsday LLC credit facility, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $1,621 in 2009, which are being amortized to interest expense over the five year term of the credit facility.
Bresnan Cable Credit Facility
a $840,000 senior secured credit facility which is comprised of two components
Bresnan Cable has
: a $765,000 term loan facility and a $75,000 revolving credit facility (collectively, the "Bresnan Credit Agreement").  In connection with the financing of the Bresnan acquisition, the full $765,000 amount of the term loan facility was drawn, net of an original issue discount of approximately $7,700. The revolving credit facility, which includes a $25,000 sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $5,000 sublimit for swingline loans, was not drawn in connection with the transaction. Such revolving credit facility is expected to be available to provide for ongoing working capital requirements and for other general corporate purposes of Bresnan Cable and its subsidiaries.
Borrowings under the Bresnan Credit Agreement bear interest at a floating rate, which at the option of Bresnan Cable may be either 2.0% over a floating base rate or 3.0% over an adjusted LIBOR rate, subject to a LIBOR floor of 1.50%. The Bresnan Credit Agreement requires Bresnan Cable to pay a commitment fee of 0.75% in respect of the average daily unused commitments under the revolving credit facility. Bresnan Cable is also required to pay customary letter of credit fees, as well as fronting fees, to banks that issue letters of credit pursuant to the Bresnan Credit Agreement.
All obligations under the Bresnan Credit Agreement are guaranteed by Holdings Sub (the direct parent of Bresnan Cable) and each of Bresnan Cable's existing and future direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are not designated as unrestricted subsidiaries in accordance with the Bresnan Credit Agreement (the "Guarantors"). All obligations under the Bresnan Credit Agreement, including the guarantees of those obligations, will be secured by certain assets of the Bresnan Cable and the Guarantors, including a pledge of the equity interests of Bresnan Cable.
Bresnan Cable may voluntarily prepay outstanding loans under the Bresnan Credit Agreement at any time after December 14, 2011, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty (except for customary breakage costs with respect to Eurodollar loans, if applicable). On or prior to December 14, 2011, if Bresnan Cable makes a prepayment of term loans in connection with certain refinancing transactions, Bresnan Cable must pay a prepayment premium of 1% of the amount of term loans prepaid.
With certain exceptions, Bresnan Cable is required to make mandatory prepayments in certain circumstances, including (i) a specified percentage of excess cash flow beginning in 2012 depending on its cash flow ratio, (ii) from the net cash proceeds of certain sales of assets (subject to reinvestment rights), (iii) from casualty insurance and/or condemnation proceeds, and (iv) upon the incurrence of certain indebtedness.
In connection with the Bresnan Credit Agreement, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $20,542, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the credit agreement.
The Bresnan Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and also requires Bresnan Cable to comply with the following financial covenants:  (i) a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to operating cash flow of 8.00:1 decreasing to 5.00:1 on and after March 31, 2014; (ii) a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to interest expense of 2.00:1 increasing to 2.75:1 on and after March 31, 2014, and (iii) minimum liquidity of $25,000.
 
I-47
 
Senior Notes and Debentures
The following table summarizes the Company's senior notes and debentures:
______________
The table above excludes the $487,500 principal amount of Cablevision 7.75% senior notes due 2018 and $266,217 principal amount of Cablevision 8.00% senior notes due 2020 held by Newsday at December 31, 2010 and the $682,000 principal amount of Cablevision 8% senior notes held by Newsday at December 31, 2009, which are eliminated in the consolidated balance sheets of Cablevision.
The indentures under which the senior notes and debentures were issued contain various covenants, which are generally less restrictive than those contained in the credit agreement of the issuer.
Issuance of Debt Securities
Cablevision Notes
On September 23, 2009, Cablevision issued $900,000 aggregate principal amount of 8-5/8% senior notes due September 15, 2017.  These notes are senior unsecured obligations and are not guaranteed by any of Cablevision's subsidiaries.  Gross proceeds from the issuance were approximately $887,364 after giving effect to the original issue discount of approximately $12,636.  The net proceeds were used in connection with the September 2009 tender offers discussed below.  In connection with the issuance of these debt securities, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $19,021, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the senior notes.
 
I-48
 
On April 15, 2010, Cablevision issued $750,000 aggregate principal amount of 7-3/4% senior notes due April 15, 2018 and $500,000 aggregate principal amount of 8% senior notes due April 15, 2020 in a registered public offering.These senior notes are Cablevision's senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of Cablevision's other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.  The Company used the net proceeds of the offering to repurchase the April 2012 Notes (as defined below) in the tender offer Cablevision commenced on April 12, 2010 discussed below and for general corporate purposes.  In connection with the issuance of these senior notes, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $26,481, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of these senior notes.
 
CSC Holdings Notes
On January 13, 2009, CSC Holdings issued $844,000 aggregate principal amount of 8-1/2% senior notes due April 15, 2014.  These notes are senior unsecured obligations and are not guaranteed by any of CSC Holdings' subsidiaries.  Gross proceeds from the issuance were approximately $750,189, after giving effect to the original issue discount of approximately $93,811.  The proceeds were used in connection with the February 2009 tender offers discussed below and to fund a distribution to Cablevision that was used by Cablevision to repay a portion of the Cablevision floating rate senior notes due April 1, 2009 ("April 2009 Notes").  In connection with the issuance of these senior notes, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $16,434, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the senior notes.
On February 12, 2009, CSC Holdings issued $526,000 aggregate principal amount of 8-5/8% senior notes due February 15, 2019.  These notes are senior unsecured obligations and are not guaranteed by any of CSC Holdings' subsidiaries.  Gross proceeds from the issuance were approximately $500,731 after giving effect to the original issue discount of approximately $25,269.  The proceeds were used in connection with the February 2009 tender offers discussed below and to repay a portion of the outstanding $500,000 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision's April 2009 Notes.  In connection with the issuance of these senior notes, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $10,832, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the senior notes.
Bresnan Cable Notes
.The Bresnan Notes   In connection with the issuance of these senior notes, the Company incurred deferred financing costs of $5,553, which are being amortized to interest expense over the term of these senior notes.
On December 14, 2010, in connection with the financing of the Bresnan acquisition, BBHI Acquisition LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, issued $250,000 aggregate principal amount of 8% senior notes due December 15, 2018 (the "Bresnan Notes")
 
are guaranteed by all of Bresnan Cable's (the successor entity to BBHI Acquisition LLC) existing subsidiaries and will be guaranteed by certain of Bresnan Cable's future subsidiaries.
 
I-49
 
Tender Offers for Debt (tender prices per note in dollars)
Cablevision
On February 13, 2009, Cablevision announced that it commenced a cash tender offer (the "Cablevision February Tender") for its outstanding April 2009 Notes for total consideration of $1,002.50 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes tendered for purchase, consisting of tender offer consideration of $997.50 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes plus an early tender premium of $5.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes.  Concurrently, CSC Holdings announced that it commenced a cash tender offer (the "CSC Holdings February Tender") for (1) its outstanding $500,000 aggregate principal amount of 8-1/8% senior notes due July 15, 2009 ("July 2009 Notes") for total consideration of $1,022.84 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes tendered for purchase, consisting of tender offer consideration of $1,000.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes plus an early tender premium of $22.84 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes, and (2) its outstanding $400,000 aggregate principal amount of 8-1/8% senior debentures due August 15, 2009 ("August 2009 Debentures") for total consideration of $1,027.63 per $1,000.00 principal amount of debentures tendered for purchase, consisting of tender offer consideration of $1,000.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of debentures plus an early tender premium of $27.63 per $1,000.00 principal amount of debentures.
Pursuant to the Cablevision February Tender and CSC Holdings February Tender, the Company repurchased $196,269 aggregate principal amount of the April 2009 Notes, $449,430 aggregate principal amount of the July 2009 Notes and $306,791 aggregate principal amount of the August 2009 Debentures.  The tender premiums aggregating approximately $490 for the Cablevision April 2009 Notes and $18,726 for CSC Holdings July 2009 Notes and August 2009 Debentures, have been recorded in loss on extinguishment of debt in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009.  As of December 31, 2009, Cablevision repaid the remaining outstanding balance of its April 2009 Notes aggregating $303,731 upon their maturity on April 1, 2009 with cash on hand and CSC Holdings repaid the remaining outstanding balance of its July 2009 Notes aggregating $50,570 and its August 2009 Debentures aggregating $93,209 upon their maturity on July 15, 2009 and August 15, 2009, respectively, with cash on hand.
On April 12, 2010, Cablevision announced that it commenced a cash tender offer for its outstanding $1,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 8% senior notes due April 2012 ("April 2012 Notes") for total consideration of $1,105.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes tendered for purchase, consisting of tender offer consideration of $1,045.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes plus an early tender premium of $60.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes.  In connection with the tender offer, the Company repurchased $973,175 aggregate principal amount of the April 2012 Notes in the second quarter of 2010.  Tender premiums aggregating approximately $102,000, along with other transaction costs of approximately $3,000, have been recorded in loss on extinguishment of debt in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010.  In addition, unamortized deferred financing costs related to the April 2012 Notes aggregating approximately $5,000 were written-off in 2010.
In connection with the tender offer described above, and in accordance with the Company's agreements with Tribune Company, Cablevision redeemed all of its April 2012 Notes held by Newsday Holdings LLC with a face value of $682,000 for $758,968.  Newsday Holdings LLC received $487,500 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision 7-3/4% senior notes due 2018 and $266,217 aggregate principal amount of Cablevision 8% senior notes due 2020, plus accrued interest from April 15, 2010, all in accordance with the terms of the Newsday $650,000 senior secured credit facility.  As a result of the redemption of the April 2012 Notes, CSC Holdings recorded an increase to other member's equity of $92,192 on a pre-tax basis.
 
I-50
 
CSC Holdings
On September 9, 2009, CSC Holdings announced that it commenced a cash tender offer (the "CSC Holdings September Tender") for its outstanding $1,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 7-5/8% senior notes due April 1, 2011 ("April 2011 Notes") for total consideration of $1,050.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes tendered for purchase, consisting of tender offer consideration of $1,020.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes plus an early tender premium of $30.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes and its outstanding $500,000 aggregate principal amount of 6-3/4% senior notes due April 15, 2012 ("April 2012 Notes") for total consideration of $1,046.25 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes tendered for purchase, consisting of tender offer consideration of $1,016.25 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes plus an early tender premium of $30.00 per $1,000.00 principal amount of notes.
Pursuant to the CSC Holdings September Tender, in October 2009, CSC Holdings repurchased $674,204 aggregate principal amount of the April 2011 Notes and $255,383 aggregate principal amount of the April 2012 Notes.  The tender premiums aggregating approximately $33,604 for the April 2011 Notes and $11,809 for the April 2012 Notes have been recorded in loss on extinguishment of debt in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009.
Summary of Five Year Debt Maturities
Total amounts payable by the Company under its various debt obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2010, including collateralized indebtedness (see Note 11) and capital leases (including interest), during the five years subsequent to December 31, 2010, are as follows:
______________
To manage interest rate risk, the Company has entered into interest rate swap contracts to adjust the proportion of total debt that is subject to variable interest rates.  Such contracts effectively fix the borrowing rates on floating rate debt to limit the exposure against the risk of rising rates.  The Company does not enter into interest rate swap contracts for speculative or trading purposes and it has only entered into transactions with counterparties that are rated investment grade.  The Company monitors the financial institutions that are counterparties to its interest rate swap contracts and it diversifies its swap contracts among various counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution.
 
As of December 31, 2010, CSC Holdings was party to several interest rate swap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $2,600,000 that effectively fixed borrowing rates on a portion of the Company's floating rate debt.  Interest rate swap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $1,100,000 matured in March 2010.  These contracts are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  As a result of the CSC Holdings interest rate swap transactions, the interest rate paid on approximately 77% of the Company's outstanding debt (excluding capital leases and collateralized indebtedness) is effectively fixed (54% being fixed rate obligations and 23% is effectively fixed through utilization of these interest rate swap contracts) as of December 31, 2010.
 
I-51
 
The table below summarizes certain terms of these interest rate swap contracts as of December 31, 2010:
______________
The net unrealized losses resulting from changes in the fair value of the Company's swap agreements and the net realized losses as a result of net cash interest expense are reflected in loss on interest rate swap contracts, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
The Company has also entered into various transactions to limit the exposure against equity price risk on its shares of Comcast Corporation ("Comcast") common stock.  The Company had monetized all of its stock holdings in Comcast Corporation through the execution of prepaid forward contracts, collateralized by an equivalent amount of the respective underlying stock.  At maturity, the contracts provide for the option to deliver cash or shares of Comcast stock with a value determined by reference to the applicable stock price at maturity.  These contracts, at maturity, are expected to offset declines in the fair value of these securities below the hedge price per share while allowing the Company to retain upside appreciation from the hedge price per share to the relevant cap price.
  
The Company received cash proceeds upon execution of the prepaid forward contracts discussed above which has been reflected as collateralized indebtedness in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  In addition, the Company separately accounts for the equity derivative component of the prepaid forward contracts.  These equity derivatives have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes.  Therefore, the net fair values of the equity derivatives have been reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as an asset or liability and the net increases or decreases in the fair value of the equity derivative component of the prepaid forward contracts are included in gain (loss) on derivative contracts in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
All of the Company's monetization transactions are obligations of its wholly-owned subsidiaries that are not part of the Restricted Group; however, in certain of the Comcast transactions, CSC Holdings provided guarantees of the subsidiaries' ongoing contract payment expense obligations and potential payments that could be due as a result of an early termination event (as defined in the agreements).  The guarantee exposure approximates the net sum of the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and the equity collar.
The Company monitors the financial institutions that are counterparties to its equity derivative contracts and it diversifies its equity derivative contracts among various counterparties to mitigate exposure to any single financial institution.  All of the counterparties to such transactions currently carry investment grade credit ratings.
 
I-52
 
The following represents the location of the assets and liabilities associated with the Company's derivative instruments within the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009:
The following represents the impact and location of the Company's derivative instruments within the consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:
For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded a gain (loss) on investments of $109,751, $(430) and $(29,639) respectively, representing the net increase (decrease) in the fair values of all investment securities pledged as collateral for the period.
At December 31, 2010, the Company had principal collateralized indebtedness obligations of $161,358 relating to shares of Comcast common stock that mature during the next twelve months.  The Company intends to settle such obligations by either delivering shares of the applicable stock and proceeds of the equity derivative contracts or delivering cash from the proceeds of new monetization transactions.
In the event of an early termination of any of these contracts, the Company would be obligated to repay the fair value of the collateralized indebtedness less the sum of the fair values of the underlying stock and equity collar, calculated at the termination date.  As of December 31, 2010, the Company did not have an early termination shortfall relating to any of these contracts.
 
 
I-53
 
The following table summarizes the settlement of the Company's collateralized indebtedness relating to Comcast Corporation shares that were settled by delivering cash equal to the collateralized loan value, net of the value of the related equity derivative contracts for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.  The cash was obtained from the proceeds of new monetization contracts covering an equivalent number of Comcast shares.  The terms of the new contracts allow the Company to retain upside participation in Comcast shares up to each respective contract's upside appreciation limit with downside exposure limited to the respective hedge price.
The fair value hierarchy as outlined in ASC Topic 820 is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are used to measure fair value that are either observable or unobservable.  Observable inputs reflect assumptions market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability based on market data obtained from independent sources while unobservable inputs reflect a reporting entity's pricing based upon their own market assumptions.  The fair value hierarchy consists of the following three levels:
 
The following table presents for each of these hierarchy levels, the Company's financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009:
 
I-54
 
______________
 
The Company's cash equivalents, investment securities and investment securities pledged as collateral are classified within Level I of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices.
The Company's derivative contracts and liabilities under derivative contracts are valued using market-based inputs to valuation models.  These valuation models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms, market prices, yield curves, and measures of volatility.  When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit risk considerations.  Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence.  Since model inputs can generally be verified and do not involve significant management judgment, the Company has concluded that these instruments should be classified within Level II of the fair value hierarchy.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value:
Credit Facility Debt, Collateralized Indebtedness, and Senior Notes and Debentures
The fair values of each of the Company's debt instruments are based on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for instruments of the same remaining maturities.
 
I-55
 
The carrying values and estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments, excluding those that are carried at fair value in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, are summarized as follows:
______________
Fair value estimates related to the Company's debt instruments and senior notes receivable presented above are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market information and information about the financial instrument.  These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgments and therefore cannot be determined with precision.  Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
 
I-56
 
Cablevision
Cablevision files a consolidated federal income tax return with its 80% or more owned subsidiaries.
Income tax expense (benefit) attributable to Cablevision's continuing operations consists of the following components:
The current federal income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2010 is primarily attributable to the impact of the requested change in tax accounting method with regard to certain installation costs that was approved by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") during 2010 whereby the Company recorded a cumulative adjustment to reflect current deductibility of such costs for income tax purposes.
The income tax expense (benefit) attributable to Cablevision's continuing operations differs from the amount derived by applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income principally due to the effect of the following items:
 
I-57
 
For Cablevision, the tax effects of temporary differences which give rise to significant portions of deferred tax assets or liabilities and the corresponding valuation allowance at December 31, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:
The decrease in the current deferred tax asset for net operating loss carry forwards ("NOLs") as well as the increase in the deferred tax liability with regard to fixed assets from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010 are primarily attributable to the estimated impact of additional first-year bonus depreciation deductions for federal income tax purposes with regard to certain capital expenditures.
At December 31, 2010, Cablevision had consolidated federal NOLs of $1,561,663 expiring on various dates from 2021 through 2026.  Cablevision has recorded a deferred tax asset related to $1,354,592 of such NOLs.  A deferred tax asset has not been recorded for the remaining NOL of $207,071 as this portion relates to excess tax benefits that have not yet been realized, including 'windfall' deductions on share-based awards and amortization of certain tax deductible goodwill.  The tax deduction resulting from the exercise and issuance of certain share-based awards exceeded the aggregate compensation expense for such awards by $30,162 in 2010 and by $195,156 on a cumulative basis through December 31, 2010.  Cablevision uses the 'with-and-without' approach to determine whether an excess tax benefit has been realized.  Upon realization, such excess tax benefits will be recorded as an increase to paid-in capital with regard to share-based awards and as a decrease in goodwill with regard to certain tax deductible goodwill.
 
I-58
 
As of December 31, 2010, Cablevision has $22,061 of federal alternative minimum tax credit carry forwards, which do not expire.
Subsequent to the utilization of Cablevision's NOLs and tax credit carry forwards, payments for income taxes are expected to increase significantly.
CSC Holdings
CSC Holdings and its 80% or more owned subsidiaries were included in the consolidated federal income tax returns of Cablevision for the years presented herein.  CSC Holdings was converted to a limited liability company on November 10, 2009.  The income tax provision for CSC Holdings is determined on a stand-alone basis for all periods presented, including the period subsequent to the LLC conversion, as if CSC Holdings filed separate consolidated income tax returns.
Income tax expense (benefit) attributable to continuing operations consists of the following components:
In connection with the tax allocation policy between CSC Holdings and Cablevision, CSC Holdings has recorded a payable due to Cablevision and Cablevision has recorded a receivable due from CSC Holdings, both in the amount of $10,091, representing the estimated federal income tax liability of CSC Holdings for the year ended December 31, 2010 as determined on a stand-alone basis as if CSC Holdings filed separate federal consolidated income tax returns.
The current federal tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 is primarily attributable to the estimated federal income tax liability of CSC Holdings on a stand-alone basis, partially offset by the impact of the requested change in tax accounting method with regard to certain installation costs that was approved by the IRS during 2010 whereby the Company recorded a cumulative adjustment to reflect current deductibility of such costs for income tax purposes.
 
I-59
 
The income tax expense (benefit) attributable to CSC Holdings' continuing operations differs from the amount derived by applying the statutory federal rate to pretax income principally due to the effect of the following items:
For CSC Holdings, the tax effects of temporary differences which give rise to significant portions of deferred tax assets or liabilities and the corresponding valuation allowance at December 31, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:
 
 
I-60
 
 
The decrease in the current deferred tax asset for NOLs as well as the increase in the deferred tax liability with regard to fixed assets from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010 are primarily attributable to the estimated impact of additional first-year bonus depreciation deductions for federal income tax purposes with regard to certain capital expenditures.
At December 31, 2010, on a stand-alone basis CSC Holdings had consolidated federal NOLs of $377,956, expiring in 2024 and 2026.  CSC Holdings has recorded a deferred tax asset related to $231,349 of such NOLs.  A deferred tax asset has not been recorded for the remaining NOL of $146,607 as this portion relates to excess tax benefits that have not yet been realized, including 'windfall' deductions on share-based awards and amortization of certain tax deductible goodwill.  The tax deduction resulting from the exercise and issuance of certain share-based awards exceeded the aggregate compensation expense for such awards by $30,162 in 2010 and by $134,692 on a cumulative basis through December 31, 2010.  Cablevision uses the 'with-and-without' approach to determine whether an excess tax benefit has been realized.  Upon realization, such excess tax benefits will be recorded as an increase to paid-in capital with regard to share-based awards and as a decrease in goodwill with regard to certain tax deductible goodwill.
As of December 31, 2010, on a stand-alone basis CSC Holdings has $41,261 of alternative minimum tax credit carry forwards, which do not expire.
Subsequent to the utilization of CSC Holdings' NOLs and tax credit carry forwards, obligations to Cablevision pursuant to the tax allocation policy are expected to increase significantly.
The Company
Deferred tax assets have resulted primarily from the Company's future deductible temporary differences and NOLs.  In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.  The Company's ability to realize its deferred tax assets depends upon the generation of sufficient future taxable income and tax planning strategies to allow for the utilization of its NOLs and deductible temporary differences.  If such estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record additional valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets, resulting in additional income tax expense in the Company's consolidated statement of operations.  Management evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets and the need for additional valuation allowances quarterly.  At this time, based on current facts and circumstances, management believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will realize benefit for its gross deferred tax assets, except those deferred tax assets against which a valuation allowance has been recorded which relate to certain state NOLs.
 
I-61
 
The IRS approved the Company's requests to change its tax accounting method for certain installation costs with regard to its Optimum Online and Optimum Voice businesses and with regard to its Lightpath business in February 2010 and August 2010, respectively.  As a result, Cablevision's net operating loss carry forward increased by approximately $270,000 in aggregate, with a corresponding reduction in the income tax basis of certain fixed assets.  The impact of this adjustment has been reflected in the reported deferred income tax balances as of December 31, 2010.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits associated with uncertain tax positions, excluding associated deferred tax benefits and accrued interest, is as follows:
As of December 31, 2010, if all uncertain tax positions were sustained at the amounts reported or expected to be reported in the Company's tax returns, the elimination of the Company's unrecognized tax benefits, net of the deferred tax impact, would decrease income tax expense by $56,203.
Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions is included in income tax expense, consistent with the Company's historical policy.  After considering the associated deferred tax benefit, interest expense of $1,210, $385 and $331 has been included in income tax expense attributable to continuing operations in the consolidated statement of operations for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  At December 31, 2010, accrued interest on uncertain tax positions of $1,306 was included in other noncurrent liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Management does not believe that it is reasonably possible that the total amount of the gross liability for uncertain tax positions existing as of December 31, 2010 will significantly increase or decrease within twelve months of December 31, 2010.
With a few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to state and local income tax audits by taxing authorities for years prior to 2006.  The most significant jurisdictions in which the Company is required to file income tax returns include the states of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut and the city of New York.  The IRS is presently examining the Company's consolidated federal income tax returns for years 2006 through 2008.  The State of New York is presently auditing income tax returns for years 2006 through 2008.  In January 2011, the Company settled the city of New York audit with regard to the income tax returns for a wholly-owned limited liability company for years 2003 through 2005 for an amount that approximates the related unrecognized tax recorded as of December 31, 2010.
Management does not believe that the resolution of the ongoing income tax examinations described above will have a material adverse impact on the financial position of the Company.  Changes in the liabilities for uncertain tax positions will be recognized in the interim period in which the positions are effectively settled or there is a change in factual circumstances.
 
I-62
 
The Company leases certain office, production, transmission, theater and event facilities under terms of leases expiring at various dates through 2027.  The leases generally provide for escalating rentals over the term of the lease plus certain real estate taxes and other costs or credits.  Costs associated with such operating leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease term.  The difference between rent expense and rent paid is recorded as deferred rent.  Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 amounted to $64,355, $65,631 and $59,207, respectively.
In addition, the Company rents space on utility poles for its operations.  The Company's pole rental agreements are for varying terms, and management anticipates renewals as they expire.  Pole rental expense for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 amounted to $15,551, $14,939 and $15,000, respectively.
The minimum future annual payments for all operating leases from continuing operations (with initial or remaining terms in excess of one year) during the next five years and thereafter, including pole rentals from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2015, at rates now in force are as follows:
 
In connection with the AMC Networks Distribution and the MSG Distribution, the Company entered into various agreements with AMC Networks and Madison Square Garden, including distribution agreements, tax disaffiliation agreements, transition services agreements, employee matters agreements and certain related party arrangements.  These agreements govern the Company's relationship with AMC Networks and Madison Square Garden subsequent to the AMC Networks Distribution and the MSG Distribution and provide for the allocation of employee benefits, taxes and certain other liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the AMC Networks Distribution and the MSG Distribution.  These agreements also include arrangements with respect to transition services and a number of on-going relationships.  The distribution agreements include agreements that the Company and AMC Networks and the Company and Madison Square Garden agree to provide each other with indemnities with respect to liabilities arising out of the businesses the Company transferred to AMC Networks and Madison Square Garden.
 
I-63
 
The following table summarizes the revenue and charges (credits) related to services provided to or received from AMC Networks and Madison Square Garden reflected in continuing operations not discussed elsewhere in the accompanying combined notes to the consolidated financial statements:
______________
Revenues, net
The Company recognizes revenue in connection with television advertisements and print advertising, as well as certain telecommunication services charged by its subsidiaries to AMC Networks and Madison Square Garden.
The Company and its subsidiaries, together with AMC Networks and Madison Square Garden, may enter into agreements with third parties in which the amounts paid/received by AMC Networks and Madison Square Garden, their subsidiaries, or the Company may differ from the amounts that would have been paid/received if such arrangements were negotiated separately.  Where subsidiaries of the Company have incurred a cost incremental to fair value and Madison Square Garden or AMC Networks have received a benefit incremental to fair value from these negotiations, the Company and its subsidiaries will charge Madison Square Garden or AMC Networks for the incremental amount.
Technical Expenses, net of Credits
Technical expenses include costs incurred by the Company for the carriage of the MSG networks and Fuse program services, as well as for AMC, WE tv, IFC and Sundance Channel on Cablevision's cable systems.  The Company also purchases certain programming signal transmission and production services from AMC Networks.
 
I-64
 
Effective January 1, 2010, a new long-term affiliation agreement was entered into between Cablevision and the MSG networks, which are owned by Madison Square Garden.  This new long-term affiliation agreement resulted in incremental programming costs to the Company of approximately $29,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the amount of programming costs recognized by the Company pursuant to the Company's arrangement with Madison Square Garden in 2009.  This new affiliation agreement provides for the carriage of the MSG Network and MSG Plus program services on the Company's cable television systems in the tri-state area.  This agreement has a term of 10 years, obligates the Company to carry the MSG networks program services on its cable television systems and provides for the payment by the Company to the MSG networks of a per subscriber license fee, which fee is increased each year during the term of the agreement.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (Credits)
Corporate General and Administrative Expense Allocations
General and administrative costs, primarily costs of maintaining common support functions such as executive management, human resources, legal, finance, tax, accounting, audit, treasury, strategic planning, information technology, transportation services, creative and production services, etc., were allocated to Madison Square Garden through December 31, 2009 and through December 31, 2010 for AMC Networks.  Subsequent to January 1, 2010, amounts allocated to Madison Square Garden represent charges pursuant to the transition services agreement.  Corporate overhead costs previously allocated to AMC Networks and Madison Square Garden that were not eliminated as a result of the AMC Networks Distribution and MSG Distribution have been reclassified to continuing operations.
Health and Welfare Plan Allocations
Employees of Madison Square Garden participated in health and welfare plans sponsored by the Company through December 31, 2009.  Employees of AMC Networks participate in health and welfare plans sponsored by the Company as of December 31, 2010.  Health and welfare benefit costs have generally been charged to AMC Networks and Madison Square Garden based upon the proportionate number of participants in the plans.
Risk Management and General Insurance Allocations
The Company provided AMC Networks and Madison Square Garden with risk management and general insurance related services through the dates of the AMC Networks Distribution and the MSG Distribution.
Other
The Company, AMC Networks and Madison Square Garden routinely enter into transactions with each other in the ordinary course of business.  Such transactions may include, but are not limited to, sponsorship agreements and cross-promotion arrangements.
Transactions with Other Affiliates
During 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company provided services to or incurred costs on behalf of certain related parties, including from time to time, members of the Dolan family or to entities owned by members of the Dolan family.  All costs incurred on behalf of these related parties are reimbursed to the Company.
 
I-65
 
Aggregate amounts due from and due to AMC Networks, Madison Square Garden and other affiliates at December 31, 2010 and 2009 are summarized below:
Plan Descriptions
Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans
Cablevision Retirement Plans (collectively, the "Cablevision Defined Benefit Plans")
The Company sponsors a non-contributory qualified defined benefit cash balance retirement plan (the "Pension Plan") for the benefit of non-union employees other than those of the theater business.  Under the Pension Plan, the Company credits a certain percentage of eligible pay into an account established for each participant which is credited with a market based rate of return monthly.  As of May 1, 2009, the Pension Plan was amended to "freeze" all benefits earned through April 30, 2009 for all Newsday participants, although these employees continue to earn interest credits on those earned benefits.
The Company also maintains an unfunded non-contributory non-qualified defined benefit excess cash balance plan ("Excess Cash Balance Plan") covering certain employees of the Company who participate in the Pension Plan, as well as an additional unfunded non-contributory non-qualified defined benefit plan ("CSC Supplemental Benefit Plan")  for the benefit of certain officers and employees of the Company which provides that, upon attaining normal retirement age, a participant will receive a benefit equal to a specified percentage of the participant's average compensation, as defined.  All participants are 100% vested in the CSC Supplemental Benefit Plan.
Effective January 1, 2010, employees of Madison Square Garden ceased participation in the Pension Plan and Excess Cash Balance Plan and began participation in a Madison Square Garden sponsored cash balance pension plan and an excess cash balance plan (the "MSG Plans Transfer").  Also effective January 1, 2010, Madison Square Garden assumed the liability to pay benefits to its current and former employees who had previously participated in the Pension Plan and Excess Cash Balance Plan.
 
I-66
 
Plan Results for Defined Benefit Plans
Summarized below is the funded status and the amounts recorded on the Company's consolidated balance sheets for all of the Company's qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans at December 31, 2010 and 2009:
______________
Other pre-tax changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive loss (income) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:
 
I-67
 
Pre-tax actuarial loss and prior service costs balances recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:
The accumulated benefit obligations for the Cablevision Qualified and Non-qualified Defined Benefit Plans aggregated $309,028 and $301,716 at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Approximately $1,561 in accumulated other comprehensive loss is expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost during the next fiscal year relating to the defined benefit plans.
The Company's net funded status relating to its defined benefit plans at December 31, 2010 is as follows:
Components of the net periodic benefit cost (credit), recorded primarily in selling, general and administrative expenses, for the Cablevision Defined Benefit Plans for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, are as follows:
______________
 
I-68
 
Plan Assumptions for Defined Benefit Plans
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic cost (made at the beginning of the year) and benefit obligations (made at the end of the year) for the Cablevision Defined Benefit Plans are as follows:
In 2010, 2009 and 2008, the discount rates used by the Company in calculating the net periodic benefit cost were determined (based on the expected duration of the benefit payments for the pension plans) from the Buck Consultants' Discount Rate Model (which is developed by examining the yields on selected highly rated corporate bonds), to select a rate at which the Company believed the pension benefits could be effectively settled.
In December 2010, the Pension Plan's actuary completed an experience study of the demographic assumptions used in the actuarial valuation of the Pension Plan.  The assumptions reviewed included the expected rates of termination and retirement, as well as the assumed timing of benefit commencements and lump sum utilization rates.  Based on this analysis, the actuary developed revised demographic assumptions, which were utilized in calculating the benefit obligations as of December 31, 2010.  The use of the revised assumptions resulted in an increase in the Pension Plan's expected duration of benefit payments as compared to the previous years.  Although overall discount rates have decreased as compared to the prior year, this increase in the expected duration of benefit payments yielded a higher discount rate as compared to the discount rate under the Pension Plan's historical expected duration of benefit payments.
The Company's expected long-term return on plan assets is based on a periodic review and modeling of the plan's asset allocation structure over a long-term horizon.  Expectations of returns for each asset class are the most important of the assumptions used in the review and modeling and are based on comprehensive reviews of historical data, forward looking economic outlook, and economic/financial market theory.  The expected long-term rate of returns were selected from within the reasonable range of rates determined by (a) historical real returns, net of inflation, for the asset classes covered by the investment policy, and (b) projections of inflation over the long-term period during which benefits are payable to plan participants.
 
I-69
 
Plan Assets and Investment Policy
The weighted average asset allocations of the Pension Plan at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:
 
______________
On January 1, 2007, the Pension Plan assets, along with the assets of Madison Square Garden sponsored pension plans, were pooled together into the Master Trust.  Although assets of these plans were commingled in the Master Trust, the trustee maintained supporting records for the purpose of allocating the net gain or loss of the investment account to these plans. The net investment income or loss of the investment assets was allocated by the trustee to the Pension Plan and Madison Square Garden sponsored pension plans based on the relationship of the interest of each plan to the total of the interests of the plans in the Master Trust.
On July 1, 2008, the trustee for the Master Trust was replaced, whereby the trustee maintained the assets of the Pension Plan separately from the Madison Square Garden sponsored pension plans. All investment gains and losses that prior to July 1, 2008 were allocated between the Pension Plan and Madison Square Garden sponsored pension plans based on their interest in the total assets of the Master Trust, were accounted for by the trustee based on investment gains and losses on the assets held in the Cablevision Plan Trust (for the Pension Plan) and MSG Pension Plan Trust (for the Madison Square Garden sponsored pension plans).
In November 2008, the Master Trust's investment objectives were amended to reflect an overall lower risk tolerance to stock market volatility.  The amended investment objectives modified the asset allocations so that any equity investments held by the Master Trust would be reinvested in cash, cash equivalent investments and/or other appropriate fixed income investments.
In June 2010, as a result of the MSG Distribution, the Master Trust was converted to a single employer trust ("Pension Plan Trust") whereby the Pension Plan was the sole member.  All Madison Square Garden sponsored pension plans were transferred from the Master Trust to a newly-formed Madison Square Garden trust.
The Pension Plan Trust's investment objectives continue to reflect the amended objectives of the Master Trust which is to invest in portfolios that would obtain a market rate of return throughout economic cycles, commensurate with the investment risk and cash flow needs of the Pension Plan.  This requires the Pension Plan to subject a portion of its assets to increased risk to generate a greater rate of return.  The investments held in the Pension Plan are readily marketable and can be sold to fund benefit payment obligations of the plan as they become payable.
Investment allocation decisions are formally made by the Company's Investment and Benefit Committee, which takes into account investment advice provided by its external investment consultant.  The investment consultant takes into account expected long-term risk, return, correlation, and other prudent investment assumptions when recommending asset classes and investment managers to the Company's Investment and Benefit Committee.  The investment consultant also takes into account the Pension Plan's liabilities when making investment allocation decisions. These decisions are driven by asset/liability studies conducted by the external investment consultant who combine actuarial considerations and strategic investment advice.  The major categories of the Pension Plan Trust's assets are cash equivalents and bonds which are marked-to-market on a daily basis.  Due to the Pension Plan Trust's significant holdings in long-term government and non-government securities, the Pension Plan Trust's assets are subjected to interest-rate risk; specifically, a rising interest rate environment. However, these assets are structured in an asset/liability framework. Consequently, an increase in interest rates causes a corresponding decrease to the overall liability of the Pension Plan thus creating a hedge against rising interest rates. Additional risks involving the asset/liability framework include earning insufficient returns to cover future liabilities and imperfect hedging of the liability. In addition, a portion of the Pension Plan Trust's bond portfolio invests in non-government securities which are subject to credit-risk of the bond issuer defaulting on interest and/or principal payments.
 
I-70
 
Investments at Estimated Fair Value
The fair values of the assets of the Pension Plan Trust at December 31, 2010 by asset class utilizing the fair value hierarchy discussed in Note 12 are as follows:
______________
The fair values of the Pension Plan assets included within the Master Trust at December 31, 2009 by asset class utilizing the fair value hierarchy discussed in Note 12 are as follows:
______________
 
I-71
 
Benefit Payments and Contributions for Defined Benefit Plans
The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid relating to Cablevision's Defined Benefit Plans:
Of the amounts expected to be paid in 2011, the Company has recorded $2,031 as a current liability in its consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2010, since this amount represents the aggregate benefit payment obligation payable in the next twelve months that exceeds the fair value of aggregate plan assets at December 31, 2010.
The Company currently expects to contribute approximately $68,300 to the Pension Plan in 2011.
Defined Contribution Benefit Plans
The Company also maintains the Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan, a contributory qualified defined contribution plan for the benefit of non-union employees of the Company.  Employees can contribute a percentage of eligible annual compensation and the Company will make a matching cash contribution or discretionary contribution, as defined in the plan.  In addition, the Company maintains an unfunded non-qualified excess savings plan for which the Company provides a matching contribution similar to the Cablevision 401(k) Savings Plan.  The cost associated with these plans was $23,395, $21,377 and $18,898 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
In addition, Newsday made matching contributions for a portion of its employees voluntary contributions aggregating $539 to a Tribune sponsored 401(k) plan for the period from July 30, 2008 through December 31, 2008.
Cablevision's Equity Plans
In April 2006, Cablevision's Board of Directors approved the Cablevision Systems Corporation 2006 Employee Stock Plan and the Cablevision Systems Corporation 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, which was approved by Cablevision's stockholders at its annual stockholders meeting on May 18, 2006.
Under the 2006 Employee Stock Plan, Cablevision is authorized to grant incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted shares, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights and other equity-based awards.  Cablevision may grant awards for up to 46,000,000 shares of CNYG Class A common stock (subject to certain adjustments).  Options and stock appreciation rights under the 2006 Employee Stock Plan must be granted with an exercise price of not less than the fair market value of a share of CNYG Class A common stock on the date of grant and must expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant (or up to one additional year in the case of the death of a holder).  The terms and conditions of awards granted under the 2006 Employee Stock Plan, including vesting and exercisability, are determined by the compensation committee of the Board of Directors and may be based upon performance criteria.
 
I-72
 
Under the 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, Cablevision is authorized to grant nonqualified stock options, restricted stock units and other equity-based awards.  Cablevision may grant awards for up to 1,000,000 shares of CNYG Class A common stock (subject to certain adjustments).  Options under this plan must be granted with an exercise price of not less than the fair market value of a share of CNYG Class A common stock on the date of grant and must expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant (or up to one additional year in the case of the death of a holder).  The terms and conditions of awards granted under the 2006 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, including vesting and exercisability, are determined by the compensation committee.  Unless otherwise provided in an applicable award agreement, options granted under this plan will be fully vested and exercisable, and restricted stock units granted under this plan will be fully vested, upon the date of grant.  Unless otherwise determined by the compensation committee, on the date of each annual meeting of Cablevision's stockholders, each non-employee director will receive restricted stock units with a fair market value of $40,000 and a grant of 4,000 options on such date.  In 2010 and 2009, Cablevision granted its non-employee directors an aggregate of 52,151 and 68,496 restricted stock units, respectively, which vested on the date of grant.  Total non-employee director restricted stock units outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 were 213,815 and 181,991, respectively.
Previously, Cablevision had an employee stock plan ("1996 Employee Stock Plan") under which it was authorized to grant incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted shares, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, and bonus awards and a non-employee director stock plan ("1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan") under which it was authorized to grant options and restricted stock units.  The 1996 Employee Stock Plan expired in February 2006 and the 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan expired in May 2006.
Options and stock appreciation rights have typically been scheduled to vest over three years in 33-1/3% annual increments and expire 10 years from the grant date.  Restricted shares have typically been subject to three or four year cliff vesting.  Performance based options were typically subject to approximately two year or three year cliff vesting, with exercisability subject to performance criteria.  Performance based options expire 10 years from the date of grant (or up to one additional year in the case of the death of the holder).  Options and restricted stock units issued to non-employee directors have been fully vested on the date of grant.  Cablevision has 495,400 performance based options (which include 82,200 held by Madison Square Garden employees) and 145,428 stock appreciation rights outstanding (which include 12,576 held by Madison Square Garden employees) at December 31, 2010.
As a result of a $10 per share special dividend in 2006, options or stock appreciation rights issued under the 1996 Employee Stock Plan and the 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan that were not vested on or prior to December 31, 2004 were adjusted to reduce their per share exercise price by the amount of the special dividend.  The per share exercise price of options or stock appreciation rights that were vested on or prior to December 31, 2004 were not adjusted and the holder was to receive the $10 per share special dividend and any subsequent dividends upon exercise of the option or right.  In October 2009, the per share exercise price of options or stock appreciation rights that were vested on or prior to December 31, 2004 were reduced to reflect the amount of the $10.00 special dividend and all other dividends declared by the Company (the "Dividends").  Holders of these shares will no longer receive the Dividends in cash upon exercise of the option or right.  Holders of restricted shares outstanding on the respective dividend payment dates will receive the applicable special dividend and the quarterly dividends when and if the restrictions lapse on such shares.  Holders of non-employee director restricted stock units receive dividends when they are paid.
 
I-73
 
Since share-based compensation expense is based on awards that are ultimately expected to vest, such compensation (which includes options, restricted stock, and stock appreciation rights) for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 has been reduced for estimated forfeitures.  Forfeitures were estimated based on historical experience.  Share-based compensation expense (including expenses related to Madison Square Garden share-based awards held by Company employees) recognized for continuing operations as selling, general and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 amounted to $50,289, $49,820 and $36,334 (of which $48,434, $47,143 and $40,982 related to equity classified awards), respectively.  An income tax benefit of $18,142, $15,467 and $10,542 was recognized in continuing operations resulting from this share-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
The following table presents the share-based compensation expense (income) for continuing operations recognized by the Company for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:
Cablevision uses the 'with-and-without' approach under the guidance now codified by ASC Topic 740-20, to determine the recognition and measurement of excess tax benefits.
Cash flows resulting from excess tax benefits are classified as cash flows from financing activities.  Excess tax benefits are realized tax benefits from tax deductions for options exercised and restricted shares issued in excess of the deferred tax asset attributable to stock compensation costs for such awards.  No excess tax benefits for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were recorded.  Cash received from option exercises for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $21,768, $17,663 and $6,556, respectively.
Valuation Assumptions - Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
Cablevision calculates the fair value of each option award on the date of grant and for each stock appreciation right on the date of grant and at the end of each reporting period using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.  Cablevision's computation of expected life was determined based on historical experience of similar awards, giving consideration to the contractual terms of the share-based awards and vesting schedules or the simplified method (the average of the vesting period and option term) as prescribed in the guidance now codified under ASC Topic 718-10-S99, if applicable.  The interest rate for periods within the contractual life of the share-based award is based on interest yields for U.S. Treasury instruments in effect at the time of grant and as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 for stock appreciation rights.  Cablevision's computation of expected volatility is based on historical volatility of its common stock.
 
I-74
 
The following assumptions were used to calculate the fair value of stock option awards granted in 2009:
There were no options granted during 2010 and 2008.
Treatment of Share-Based Payment Awards After the MSG Distribution
In connection with the MSG Distribution, and as provided for in the Company's equity plans, each stock option and stock appreciation right ("SAR") outstanding at the effective date of the MSG Distribution became two options and SARs, one with respect to CNYG Class A Common Stock and one with respect to Madison Square Garden Class A common stock.  The existing exercise price of each option/SAR was allocated between the existing Cablevision option/SAR and the Madison Square Garden option/SAR based on the weighted average trading price of Madison Square Garden's and Cablevision's common shares for the ten trading days subsequent to the MSG Distribution and the underlying share amount took into account the 1:4 distribution ratio.  As a result of this adjustment, 82.63% of the pre-MSG Distribution exercise price of options/rights was allocated to the Cablevision options/rights and 17.37% was allocated to the new Madison Square Garden options/rights.  This modification did not result in any additional compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Share-Based Payment Award Activity
The following table summarizes activity relating to Company employees who held Cablevision stock options for the year ended December 31, 2010:
______________
 
I-75
 
Cablevision stock options held by Madison Square Garden employees are not expensed by the Company, however such stock options do have a dilutive effect on net income per share attributable to Cablevision shareholders.  The following table summarizes activity relating to Madison Square Garden employees who held Cablevision stock options for the year ended December 31, 2010:
______________
The aggregate intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the exercise price of the underlying awards and the quoted price of Cablevision's common stock for the 7,550,427 options outstanding that were in-the-money (which includes 4,179,496 exercisable options) at December 31, 2010.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, the aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised under Cablevision's stock option plans was $32,831 determined as of the date of option exercise, plus dividends, as applicable.  When an option is exercised, Cablevision issues new shares of stock.
 
I-76
 
The following table summarizes activity relating to Company employees who held Cablevision restricted shares for the year ended December 31, 2010:
______________
Cablevision restricted shares held by Madison Square Garden employees are not expensed by the Company, however such restricted shares do have a dilutive effect on net income per share attributable to Cablevision shareholders.  The following table summarizes activity relating to Madison Square Garden employees who held Cablevision restricted shares for the year ended December 31, 2010:
______________
For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the amount of cash used by the Company to settle the aggregate intrinsic value of stock appreciation rights exercised under Cablevision's stock plans was $6,443, $1,308 and $4,115, respectively, determined as of the date of exercise.  The aggregate intrinsic value, which was settled in cash, is calculated as the difference between (i) the exercise price of the underlying awards and (ii) the quoted price of the CNYG Class A common stock as of the date of exercise, plus the Dividends, as applicable.
As of December 31, 2010, there was $55,761 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to Cablevision's unvested options and restricted shares granted under Cablevision's stock plans. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 1 year.
 
I-77
 
During the year ended December 31, 2010, 2,119,364 Cablevision restricted shares issued to employees of the Company and Madison Square Garden vested.  To fulfill the employees' statutory minimum tax withholding obligations for the applicable income and other employment taxes, 866,426 of these shares, with an aggregate value of $22,542, were surrendered to the Company.  These acquired shares have been classified as treasury stock.
Long-Term Incentive Plans
In April 2006, Cablevision's Board of Directors approved the Cablevision Systems Corporation 2006 Cash Incentive Plan, which was approved by Cablevision's stockholders at its annual stockholders meeting in May 2006.
Prior to the Cash Incentive Plan, Cablevision had a Long-Term Incentive Plan, under which certain executives had been granted cash awards, some of which were performance based, that vested over varying required service periods and were typically payable at the end of the vesting period or on specified dates.  One form of award received by certain executives under this plan was a performance retention award, vesting over 7 years.  The terms of the performance retention awards provided that the executive could have requested a loan from Cablevision in the amount of the award prior to its vesting, subject to certain limitations, provided that such loan was secured by a lien in favor of Cablevision on property owned by the executive.  Effective July 30, 2002, such requests for advances on amounts of awards are no longer permitted.  Imputed interest to those executives on these interest free loans amounted to $5, $44 and $237, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.  As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, $0 and $400, respectively, was outstanding in respect of advances made pursuant to this plan.
In connection with long-term incentive awards granted under the two plans, the Company has recorded expenses in continuing operations of $48,410, $44,106 and $44,328 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  At December 31, 2010, the Company had accrued $37,271 for performance-based awards for which the performance criteria had not yet been met as of December 31, 2010 as such awards are based on achievement of certain performance criteria through December 31, 2011 and 2012.  The Company has accrued the amount that it currently believes will ultimately be paid based upon the performance criteria established for these performance-based awards.  If the Company subsequently determines that the performance criteria for such awards is not probable of being achieved, the Company would reverse the accrual in respect of such award at that time.
 
I-78
 
Commitments
Future cash payments required under arrangements pursuant to contracts entered into by the Company in the normal course of business as of December 31, 2010 are as follows:
______________
At any time after the thirteenth anniversary of the closing of the Newsday Transaction and on or prior to the date that is six months after such anniversary, Tribune Company will have the right to require CSC Holdings to purchase Tribune Company's entire interest in Newsday Holdings LLC at the fair value of the interest at that time (see Note 4).  The table above does not include any future payments that would be required upon the exercise of this put right.
Many of the Company's franchise agreements and utility pole leases require the Company to remove its cable wires and other equipment upon termination of the respective agreements.  The Company has concluded that the fair value of these asset retirement obligations cannot be reasonably estimated since the range of potential settlement dates is not determinable.
Other Matters
Sales Tax Audit
The Company has been under examination by the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance ("NYS") for sales tax with regard to the Optimum Voice business for the period June 1, 2006 through November 30, 2007.  In March 2009, NYS concluded the audit and issued a proposed assessment ("Notice") totaling approximately $16,000, including tax, interest and penalties.  The foregoing amount does not include any amounts which could be assessed for periods subsequent to November 2007, including additional interest.  The Notice is not a final assessment at this time, because the Company requested, on a timely basis, further review by the Division of Tax Appeals by filing a petition for an Administrative Law Judge hearing.  The principal audit issue is the amount of Optimum Voice revenue that should be subject to tax.  The Company has collected and remitted, and continues to collect and remit, sales tax on more than 75% of its VoIP revenue, based in part on the provision of New York state law that specifically excludes interstate and international telephone service from tax and the Company's reasonable calculation of subscriber interstate and international usage.  NYS has asserted that all Optimum Voice revenue, less embedded sales tax included in the subscriber fee, bad debts and other customer adjustments, should be subject to sales tax.  The Company believes that it has substantial defenses to such claim and will continue to vigorously contest the Notice.  No provision has been made for such claim in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
 
I-79
 
Montana Property Tax Matter
The Montana Department of Revenue ("MT DOR") generally assesses property taxes on cable companies at 3% and on telephone companies at 6%.  Historically, Bresnan Cable's cable and telephone businesses have been taxed separately by the MT DOR.  In 2010, MT DOR assessed Bresnan Cable as a single telephone business and retroactively assessed it as such for 2007 through 2009.  Bresnan Cable filed a declaratory judgment action against the MT DOR challenging its property tax classifications for 2007 through 2010.  The MT DOR has filed an answer to the action and discovery has commenced.  Under Montana statute, a taxpayer must first pay a disputed property tax assessment in order to challenge such assessment.  In accordance with that statute, in November 2010, Bresnan Cable paid half of its 2010 property tax assessment under protest and is seeking a refund.  No provision for additional tax, which amount could be up to approximately $15,000, including interest, as a single telephone business for 2007 through 2009 has been accrued.  The Company believes it has substantial grounds for challenging the legal validity of MT DOR's assessments for 2007 through 2010 and intends to vigorously assert such challenges.
Legal Matters
Programming Litigation
On September 20, 2007, an antitrust lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California against Cablevision and several other defendants, including other cable and satellite providers and programming content providers.  The complaint alleges that the defendants violated Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Act by agreeing to the sale and licensing of programming on a "bundled" basis and by offering programming in packaged tiers rather than on an " la carte" basis.  The plaintiffs, purportedly on behalf of a nationwide class of cable and satellite subscribers, sought unspecified treble monetary damages and injunctive relief to compel the offering of channels to subscribers on an " la carte" basis.  On December 3, 2007, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint containing principally the same allegations as the plaintiffs' original complaint.  On December 21, 2007, the defendants filed joint motions to dismiss the amended complaint for failure to state a claim and on the ground that the plaintiffs lacked standing to assert the claims in the amended complaint.  The district court granted the defendants' motions on March 13, 2008, but granted the plaintiffs leave to amend their claims.
On March 20, 2008, the plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint.  The second amended complaint contained many of the same allegations as the plaintiffs' original complaint, with limited modifications to address certain of the deficiencies identified in the court's March 13 order.  Two of the principal modifications were (1) to reform the relief requested from an order requiring programmers and cable providers to offer channels on an " la carte" basis, to an order requiring programmers and cable providers to offer the option to purchase on an unbundled basis; and (2) to allege that certain non-defendant programmers have been excluded from the market.  On April 22, 2008, the defendants filed joint motions to dismiss the second amended complaint.  The court denied those motions on June 26, 2008.  On August 1, 2008, Cablevision filed an answer to the second amended complaint.  On May 4, 2009, the plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint in order to remove any allegation that non-defendant programmers have been excluded from the market as a result of the practices being challenged in the lawsuit.  In conjunction with the filing of the third amended complaint, on May 1, 2009, the plaintiffs filed a motion to adjudicate that foreclosure of the non-defendant programmers is not a necessary element of the plaintiffs' antitrust injury.  On June 12, 2009, the defendants filed motions to dismiss the third amended complaint.  On October 15, 2009, the court granted the defendants' motion and dismissed the third amended complaint with prejudice.  The plaintiffs have filed a notice of appeal.  Oral argument before the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit has been scheduled for March 7, 2011.
 
I-80
 
Following expiration of the affiliation agreements for carriage of certain Fox broadcast stations and cable networks on October 16, 2010, News Corporation terminated delivery of the programming feeds to Cablevision, and as a result, those stations and networks were unavailable on the Company's cable television systems.  On October 30, 2010, Cablevision and Fox reached an agreement on new affiliation agreements for these stations and networks and carriage was restored.  Several class action lawsuits have been filed on behalf of Cablevision customers seeking recovery for the lack of Fox programming.  The plaintiffs in those lawsuits have asserted claims for breach of contract, unjust enrichment, and consumer fraud.  The Company believes these claims are without merit and intends to defend these lawsuits vigorously.
Patent Litigation
Cablevision is named as a defendant in certain lawsuits claiming infringement of various patents relating to various aspects of the Company's businesses.  In certain of these cases other industry participants are also defendants.  In certain of these cases the Company expects that any potential liability would be the responsibility of the Company's equipment vendors pursuant to applicable contractual indemnification provisions.  To the extent that the allegations in these lawsuits have been analyzed by the Company at the current stage of their proceedings, the Company believes that the claims are without merit and intends to defend the actions vigorously.  The final disposition of these actions is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position.
DISH Network Contract Dispute
In 2005, subsidiaries of the Company (now subsidiaries of AMC Networks) entered into agreements with EchoStar Communications Corporation and its affiliates by which EchoStar Media Holdings Corporation acquired a 20% interest in VOOM HD Holdings LLC ("VOOM HD") and EchoStar Satellite LLC (the predecessor to DISH Network, LLC ("DISH Network")) agreed to distribute VOOM on DISH Network for a 15-year term.  The affiliation agreement with DISH Network for such distribution provides that if VOOM HD fails to spend $100,000 per year (subject to reduction to the extent that the number of offered channels is reduced to fewer than 21), up to a maximum of $500,000 in the aggregate, on VOOM, DISH Network may seek to terminate the agreement under certain circumstances.  On January 30, 2008, DISH Network purported to terminate the affiliation agreement, effective February 1, 2008, based on its assertion that VOOM HD had failed to comply with this spending provision in 2006.  On January 31, 2008, VOOM HD sought and obtained a temporary restraining order from the New York Supreme Court for New York County prohibiting DISH Network from terminating the affiliation agreement.  In conjunction with its request for a temporary restraining order, VOOM HD also requested a preliminary injunction and filed a lawsuit against DISH Network asserting that DISH Network did not have the right to terminate the affiliation agreement.  In a decision filed on May 5, 2008, the court denied VOOM HD's motion for a preliminary injunction.  On or about May 13, 2008, DISH Network ceased distribution of VOOM on its DISH Network.  On May 27, 2008, VOOM HD amended its complaint to seek damages for DISH Network's improper termination of the affiliation agreement.  On June 24, 2008, DISH Network answered VOOM HD's amended complaint and asserted counterclaims alleging breach of contract and breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing with respect to the affiliation agreement.  On July 14, 2008, VOOM HD replied to DISH Network's counterclaims.  The Company believes that the counterclaims asserted by DISH Network are without merit.  VOOM HD and DISH Network each filed cross-motions for summary judgment.  In November 2010, the court denied both parties' cross-motions for summary judgment.  The court also granted VOOM HD's motion for sanctions based on DISH Network's spoliation of evidence and its motion to exclude DISH Network's principal damages expert.  The trial will be scheduled after DISH Network's appeal of the latter two rulings.
 
I-81
 
In connection with the AMC Networks Distribution, CSC Holdings and AMC Networks and its subsidiary, Rainbow Programming Holdings, LLC (collectively, the "AMC Parties") have entered into an agreement (the "VOOM Litigation Agreement") which provides that from and after the AMC Networks Distribution date, CSC Holdings retains full control over the pending litigation with DISH Network. Any decision with respect to settlement will be made jointly by CSC Holdings and the AMC Parties. CSC Holdings and the AMC Parties will share equally in the proceeds (including in the value of any non-cash consideration) of any settlement or final judgment in the pending litigation with DISH Network that are received by subsidiaries of AMC Networks from VOOM HD. CSC Holdings and the AMC Parties will also bear equally the legal fees and expenses (above a specified amount for the remainder of 2011).
Other Legal Matters
In addition to the matters discussed above, the Company is party to various lawsuits, some involving claims for substantial damages.  Although the outcome of these other matters cannot be predicted with certainty and the impact of the final resolution of these other matters on the Company's results of operations in a particular subsequent reporting period is not known, management does not believe that the resolution of these other lawsuits will have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company or the ability of the Company to meet its financial obligations as they become due.
The Company classifies its operations into two reportable segments:  (1) Telecommunications Services, consisting principally of its video, high-speed data, VoIP and its commercial high-speed data and voice services operations; and (2) Other, consisting principally of (i) Newsday, consisting of the Newsday daily newspaper and related assets, (ii) our motion picture theater business, Clearview Cinemas, (iii) the News 12 Networks, (iv) the MSG Varsity network, (v) RASCO, a cable television advertising company, and (vi) certain other businesses and unallocated corporate costs.  On December 31, 2010, Rainbow Media Holdings transferred its membership interests in News 12 Networks, RASCO and certain other businesses to wholly-owned subsidiaries of CSC Holdings in contemplation of the proposed AMC Networks Distribution.  The operations of News 12 Networks and RASCO, which were previously included in the Rainbow segment, have been reclassified to the Other segment for all periods presented.  The operations of Newsday, which were previously reported in a separate Newsday segment, have also been reclassified to the Other segment for all periods presented.
 
I-82
 
The Company's reportable segments are strategic business units that are managed separately.  The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment adjusted operating cash flow (defined as operating income (loss) excluding depreciation and amortization (including impairments), share-based compensation expense or benefit and restructuring expense or credit), a non-GAAP measure.  The Company has presented the components that reconcile adjusted operating cash flow to operating income (loss), an accepted GAAP measure.  Information as to the operations of the Company's reportable business segments is set forth below.
Inter-segment eliminations relate primarily to revenues recognized from the sale of local programming services to our Telecommunications Services segment.
Reconciliation (by Segment and in Total) of Adjusted Operating Cash Flow to Operating Income from Continuing Operations
______________
 
 
 
I-83
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment amounts to Cablevision's and CSC Holdings' consolidated balances is as follows:
 
I-84
 
Substantially all revenues and assets of the Company's reportable segments are attributed to or located in the United States primarily concentrated in the New York metropolitan area.
The following is a summary of the Company's selected quarterly financial data for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
I-85
 
 
I-86
 
 
I-87
 
Common Stock Repurchase
In June 2010, Cablevision's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500,000 of CNYG Class A common stock.  Under the repurchase program, shares of CNYG Class A common stock may be purchased from time to time in the open market.  Size and timing of these purchases will be determined based on market conditions and other factors.  Through December 31, 2010, Cablevision repurchased an aggregate of 10,825,600 shares for a total cost of approximately $316,513, including commissions ($16,266 of unsettled purchases are reflected as a current liability at December 31, 2010).  These acquired shares have been classified as treasury stock in Cablevision's consolidated balance sheet.  As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $183,595 of availability remaining under the stock repurchase authorization.
For the period from January 1 through February 15, 2011, Cablevision repurchased an aggregate of 4,728,300 shares for a total cost of approximately $164,103, including commissions.
Cablevision Dividend
On February 15, 2011, the Board of Directors of Cablevision declared a cash dividend of $0.125 per share payable on March 21, 2011 to stockholders of record on both its CNYG Class A common stock and CNYG Class B common stock as of February 28, 2011.
On February 15, 2011, Cablevision's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $500,000 of CNYG Class A common stock.
Credit Facility Debt
In connection with the AMC Networks Distribution (see Note 1), AMC Networks issued senior notes and senior secured term loans under its new senior secured credit facility to the Company as partial consideration for the transfer of certain businesses to AMC Networks.  The Company exchanged the AMC Networks senior notes and senior secured term loans in satisfaction and discharge of $1,250,000 outstanding indebtedness under its restricted group revolving loan and extended revolving loan facilities.
 
I-88
 
Item 15(a)(2).  Financial Statement Schedules
 
I-89
 
 
I-90
 
 
I-91
 
 
I-92
 
 
I-93
 
 
I-94
 
 
I-95
 
The condensed financial information of Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") and CSC Holdings, LLC ("CSC Holdings") for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries and the consolidated financial statements of CSC Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries and the notes thereto included elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Investments in subsidiaries are based upon and reflect the respective company's proportionate share of the subsidiaries' net assets and operating results.  Amounts payable by CSC Holdings to certain of its wholly-owned subsidiaries that are expected to be long-term have been reflected in Investments in Affiliates, net in the condensed balance sheets of CSC Holdings.  CSC Holdings' financial statements reflect certain video operations related to selected franchise areas within the Telecommunications Services segment that are owned directly by CSC Holdings.
Total amounts payable by Cablevision and CSC Holdings in connection with their outstanding obligations during the five years subsequent to December 31, 2010 and thereafter, as of December 31, 2010 are as follows:
______________
Income tax benefit presented in the condensed statements of operations for Cablevision and CSC Holdings have been computed on a stand-alone basis. The income tax expense with regard to affiliate operations is in equity in income (loss) of affiliates, net of income taxes.  The deferred tax asset amounts reflected in the condensed balance sheets for Cablevision and CSC Holdings have similarly been computed on a stand-alone basis.  The deferred tax assets of Cablevision represent the tax benefit of net operating loss carry forwards.  The deferred tax assets of CSC Holdings result from net operating loss carry forwards and differences between the financial reporting carrying amount and the tax bases of assets and liabilities of CSC Holdings.  Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities associated with affiliate operations are included in deficit investment in affiliate and investment in affiliates, net in the condensed balance sheets of Cablevision and CSC Holdings, respectively.  In addition, the deferred tax liability of Madison Square Garden, Inc. as of December 31, 2009 is reflected in Investment in affiliate distributed to shareholders in 2010.  The deferred tax asset of AMC Networks Inc. as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 is reflected in Investment in affiliates, net in the condensed balance sheets for Cablevision and CSC Holdings.
 
I-96
 
 
 
 
 
I-97

Exhibit 99.4
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cablevision Systems Corporation:
We consent
to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 333-71965 and 333-165887) on Form S-3 and in the registration statements (Nos. 333-79485, 333-57924, 033-36282-99, 333-41349-99, 333-57922, 333-134260, 333-159451 and 333-134259) on Form S-8 of Cablevision Systems Corporation of our report dated February 16, 2011, except for the effects of the AMC Networks Inc. discontinued operation discussed in Note 7, as to which the date is October 31 2011, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Cablevision Systems Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders deficiency and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010 and the related financial statement schedules listed in Item 15(a)(2), and our report dated February 16, 2011, with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, which reports appear in this combined current report on Form 8-K of Cablevision Systems Corporation and CSC Holdings, LLC dated October 31, 2011.
,
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
 
Melville, New York
October 31, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.5
The Board of Directors and Sole Member
CSC
Holdings, LLC:
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statement (No. 333-71965) on Form S-3 of CSC Holdings, LLC of our report dated February 16, 2011, except for the effects of the AMC Networks Inc. discontinued operation discussed in Note 7, as to which the date is October 31, 2011, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of CSC Holdings, LLC and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in total deficiency and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010 and the related financial statement schedules listed in Item 15(a)(2), and our report dated February 16, 2011, with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, which reports appear in this combined current report on Form 8-K of CSC Holdings, LLC and Cablevision Systems Corporation dated October 31, 2011.
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
 
Melville, New York
October 31, 2011
 
 








