FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20121106171011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
N/A
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 6, 2012, the Registrants announced their financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012.  A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
Earnings Press Release dated November 6, 2012.
99.1
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:  November 6, 2012
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  November 6, 2012
 
 
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
- Cablevision Systems Corporation (NYSE:CVC) today reported financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012.
Bethpage, N.Y., November 6, 2012
Third quarter consolidated net revenues grew 1.2% to $1.685 billion, consolidated adjusted operating cash flow (AOCF)decreased 6.6% to $503.8 million and consolidated operating income declined 19.3% to $219.8 million, all compared with the prior year period.  Third quarter 2012 results included a $12.9 million favorable settlement with a voice carrier while third quarter 2011 results included approximately $16 million of costs related to the impact of Hurricane Irene in our NY Metro service area.  Excluding these items, consolidated net revenue would have increased 0.4% while AOCF and consolidated operating income would have declined 11.6% and 28.3%, respectively, all compared to the prior year period.
1
Operating highlights for the third quarter 2012 include:
 
Cablevision President and CEO James L. Dolan said, "The effects of last weeks storm have had a devastating impact on residents in much of our service area.  As we report our third quarter results today, Cablevision crews continue to work around the clock to restore service to our customers as quickly as possible.  Our number one challenge continues to be Cablevision households without electrical power and we are moving quickly to restore our service once power returns.  In addition, as of today, the vast majority of our Optimum WiFi hotspots are operational across the tri-state region and providing service to our customers.
Looking ahead, we will continue to focus on our customers, improving the products we offer and enhancing the service we deliver both in the ordinary course of business as well as in times of crisis.  We have already made substantial progress on several major initiatives, including the completion of our digital conversion and the further expansion of our Optimum WiFi network. We also strengthened our balance sheet and extended our debt maturity profile through a number of successful financing transactions, which together with our operational initiatives will help us to enhance shareholder value over the long term."
 
 
 
Page 1 of 12
 
Telecommunications Services  Cable Television and Lightpath
Telecommunications Services includes Cable Television  Cablevisions video, high-speed data, and voice residential and commercial services offered over its cable infrastructure -- and its Optimum Lightpath branded commercial data and voice services.
Telecommunications Services net revenues for the third quarter 2012 rose 1.6% to $1.587 billion, AOCF decreased 5.0% to $554.8 million and operating income decreased 12.1% to $293.1 million, all compared with the prior year period.  Third quarter 2012 results included a $12.9 million favorable settlement with a voice carrier while third quarter 2011 results included approximately $16 million of costs related to the impact of Hurricane Irene in our NY Metro service area.  Excluding these items, net revenue would have increased 0.7% while AOCF and operating income would have declined 9.7% and 19.8%, respectively, all compared to the prior year period.
Cable Television
Cable Television third quarter 2012 net revenues increased 1.4% to $1.511 billion principally due to continued growth of high-speed data and voice customers, which was partially offset by fewer video customers than the prior year period.  AOCF decreased 5.8% to $518.8 million and operating income decreased 13.0% to $280.0 million, all compared with the prior year period.  Excluding the items mentioned above, net revenue would have increased 0.5% while AOCF and operating income would have declined 10.7% and 20.9%, respectively, all compared to the prior year period.  Third quarter 2012 AOCF results reflect higher operating expenses, primarily programming and non-executive employee related costs.
The following table illustrates the change in the Cable Television customer base during the third quarter of 2012:
Customer Data
(Data in table rounded to nearest thousand)
Optimum Lightpath
For third quarter 2012, Optimum Lightpath net revenues increased 4.9% to $81.3 million, AOCF increased 7.8% to $36.0 million and operating income increased 13.8% to $13.1 million, each as compared to the prior year period.  Third quarter results reflect a 12.7% increase in revenue from Ethernet services and higher operating expenses.
 
Page 2 of 12
 
Other
Other principally consists of Newsday, Clearview Cinemas, News 12 Networks, MSG Varsity, Cablevision Media Sales Corporation and certain other businesses and unallocated corporate costs.
Third quarter 2012 net revenues decreased 5.0% to $103.6 million, AOCF deficit increased 14.0% to a deficit of $51.0 million and operating loss increased 19.9% to a loss of $73.3 million all compared with the prior year period.  Third quarter results reflect the decline of advertising revenues at Newsday and lower revenue at Clearview Cinemas as well as higher operating costs at Newsday.
Other Matters
On October 24, 2012, the Board of Directors of Cablevision declared a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share on each outstanding share of both its Cablevision NY Group Class A Stock and its Cablevision NY Group Class B Stock.  This quarterly dividend is payable on November 28, 2012 to shareholders of record at the close of business on November 7, 2012.
During the third quarter of 2012, Cablevision repurchased approximately 3.9 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $61.1 million.
 
 
Page 3 of 12
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We define adjusted operating cash flow (AOCF), which is a non-GAAP financial measure, as operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization (including impairments), excluding share-based compensation expense or benefit and restructuring charges or credits.  Because it is based upon operating income (loss), AOCF also excludes interest expense (including cash interest expense) and other non-operating income and expense items.  We believe that the exclusion of share-based compensation expense or benefit allows investors to better track the performance of the various operating units of our business without regard to the distortive effects of fluctuating stock prices in the case of stock appreciation rights and, in the case of restricted shares, restricted stock units and stock options, the expense associated with an award that is not expected to be made in cash.
We present AOCF as a measure of our ability to service our debt and make continuing investments, including in our capital infrastructure.  We believe AOCF is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of our business segments and the company on a consolidated basis.  AOCF and similar measures with similar titles are common performance measures used by investors, analysts and peers to compare performance in our industry.  Internally, we use net revenues and AOCF measures as the most important indicators of our business performance, and evaluate managements effectiveness with specific reference to these indicators.  AOCF should be viewed as a supplement to and not a substitute for operating income (loss), net income (loss), cash flows from operating activities, and other measures of performance and/or liquidity presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP").  Since AOCF is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP, this measure may not be comparable to similar measures with similar titles used by other companies.  For a reconciliation of AOCF to operating income (loss), please see page 6 of this release.
We define Consolidated Free Cash Flow from Continuing Operations (Free Cash Flow), which is a non-GAAP financial measure, as net cash from operating activities (continuing operations) less capital expenditures (continuing operations), both of which are reported in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  Net cash from operating activities excludes net cash from operating activities of our discontinued operations.  We believe the most comparable GAAP financial measure of our liquidity is net cash from operating activities.  We believe that Free Cash Flow is useful as an indicator of our overall liquidity, as the amount of Free Cash Flow generated in any period is representative of cash that is available for debt repayment and other discretionary and non-discretionary cash uses.  It is also one of several indicators of our ability to make investments and/or return capital to our shareholders. We also believe that Free Cash Flow is one of several benchmarks used by analysts and investors who follow our industry for comparison of our liquidity with other companies in our industry, although our measure of Free Cash Flow may not be directly comparableto similar measures reported by other companies.
 
 
 
Page 4 of 12
 
 
COMPANY DESCRIPTION
Cablevision Systems Corporation is one of the nation's leading media and telecommunications companies. In addition to delivering its Optimum-branded cable, Internet, and voice offerings throughout the New York area, the Company owns and operates cable systems serving homes in four Western states.  Cablevisions local media properties include News 12 Networks, MSG Varsity and Newsday Media Group.  Cablevision also owns and operates Clearview Cinemas.  Additional information about Cablevision is available on the Web at .
www.cablevision.com
This earnings release may contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including financial community and rating agency perceptions of the company and its business, operations, financial condition and the industries in which it operates and the factors described in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained therein.  The company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained herein.
Cablevisions Website:  
www.cablevision.com
The conference call will be webcast live today at 11:00 a.m. ET
Conference call dial-in number is (888) 694-4641/ Conference ID Number 38383412/ Conference call replay number (855) 859-2056/ Conference ID Number 38383412 until November 13, 2012
 
 
Page 5 of 12
 
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
 
 
Page 6 of 12
 
The following is a description of the adjustments to operating income (loss) in arriving at adjusted operating cash flow included in this earnings release:
 
CONSOLIDATED FREE CASH FLOW FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
(a)
 
 
 
Page 7 of 12
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
REVENUES, NET
 
 
 
Page 8 of 12
 
ADJUSTED OPERATING CASH FLOW AND OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)
 
 
 
Page 9 of 12
 
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
 
 
Page 10 of 12
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
CAPITALIZATION AND LEVERAGE
(Dollars in thousands)
(Unaudited)
CAPITALIZATION
LEVERAGE
 
 
 
Page 11 of 12
 
CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
 
 
 
Page 12 of 12


