FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20120521163710.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 18, 2012, Cablevision held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders at which (i) the holders of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock ("Class A stockholders") voted upon the election of Zachary W. Carter, Thomas V. Reifenheiser, John R. Ryan, Vincent Tese and Leonard Tow to Cablevision's Board of Directors ("Board") for one-year terms, (ii) the holders of Cablevision NY Group Class B common stock ("Class B stockholders") voted upon the election of Rand V. Araskog, Edward C. Atwood, Frank J. Biondi, Charles F. Dolan, James L. Dolan, Kathleen M. Dolan, Kristin A. Dolan, Patrick F. Dolan, Thomas C. Dolan, Deborah Dolan-Sweeney, Brian G. Sweeney and Marianne Dolan Weber to the Board for one-year terms and (iii) the Class A stockholders and the Class B stockholders, voting together as a single class, voted upon the ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as Cablevision's independent registered public accounting firm for the 2012 fiscal year.
The Class A stockholders elected all five director nominees on which they voted, the Class B stockholders elected all twelve director nominees on which they voted, and the Class A stockholders and Class B stockholders approved the ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as Cablevision's independent registered public accounting firm for the 2012 fiscal year. The number of votes cast for, withheld or against and the number of abstentions and broker non-votes with respect to each matter voted upon, as applicable, are set forth below. In accordance with Cablevision's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Class A stockholders have one vote per share and Class B stockholders have ten votes per share with respect to matters on which both classes of shares vote together as a single class. Accordingly, the vote counts for the stockholders vote on the ratification of the appointment of our independent registered accounting firm for the 2012 fiscal year reflect ten votes with respect to each share of Cablevision NY Group Class B common stock.
 
Each of the above nominees for election by the Class B stockholders received the same vote as indicated above.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on each of their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 21, 2012
 


