FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20120507163030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") announced that it has revised the record date for the next quarterly dividend payable on its common stock from May 11, 2012 to May 17, 2012. The dividend is payable on June 1, 2012.
A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: May 7, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
- Cablevision Systems Corporation (NYSE:CVC) today announced that it has revised the record date for the next quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share payable on each outstanding share of both its NY Group Class A Stock and its NY Group Class B Stock from May 11, 2012 to May 17, 2012. The dividend is payable on June 1, 2012.
Bethpage, N.Y., May 7, 2012
Cablevision Systems Corporation is one of the nation's leading media and telecommunications companies. In addition to delivering its Optimum-branded cable, Internet, and voice offerings throughout the New York area, the company owns and operates cable systems serving homes in four Western states. Cablevision's local media properties include News 12 Networks, MSG Varsity and Newsday Media Group. Cablevision also owns and operates Clearview Cinemas.
This press release contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including financial community and rating agency perceptions of the company and its business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which it operates and the factors described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained therein. The Company disclaims any obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained herein.
 


