FILE:CVC/CVC-8K-20121001173126.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 27, 2012, Cablevision Systems Corporation ("Cablevision") issued $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of senior notes due September 15, 2022 (the "Notes") in a registered public offering pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement, dated September 13, 2012 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), between Cablevision and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representative of the underwriters named in Schedule I thereto. Cablevision invested the net proceeds of this offering in CSC Holdings, LLC ("CSC Holdings"), its wholly-owned subsidiary, with which CSC Holdings will purchase for cash certain of its outstanding senior notes through tender offers launched on September 13, 2012, repay certain amounts outstanding under its term B-2 extended loan facility and use for general corporate purposes. The Notes were registered by Cablevision under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-165887).
The Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of April 2, 2010, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 15, 2010 and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 27, 2012 (together, the "Indenture"), between Cablevision and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee.
The Notes bear interest at a rate of 5.875% per annum and mature on September 15, 2022. Interest will be payable semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning March 15, 2013. The Notes are Cablevision's senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of Cablevision's other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
The Notes may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at Cablevision's option at any time or from time to time. The redemption price for the Notes to be redeemed on any redemption date will be equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; or (ii) as determined by the Quotation Agent (as defined in the Indenture) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate (as defined in the Indenture), plus 50 basis points plus accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes to the redemption date. A copy of the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Form of Note is attached as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 1, 2012

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this ""), dated as of September 27, 2012, between CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee (the "").
Second Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
, the Company and the Trustee executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of April 2, 2010 (the ""), to provide for the issuance by the Company from time to time of Notes to be issued in one or mores series as provided in the Indenture;
WHEREAS
Base Indenture
, Section 901 of the Base Indenture provides, among other things, that the Company and the Trustee may enter into indentures supplemental to the Base Indenture, without the consent of any holders of Securities, to establish the form of any Securities, as permitted by Section 201 of the Base Indenture, and to provide for the issuance of the Notes (as defined below), as permitted by Section 301 of the Base Indenture, and to set forth the terms thereof;
WHEREAS
, the Company and the Trustee executed and delivered a First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 15, 2010 (the "," and together with the Base Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, the "");
WHEREAS
First Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
, the Company desires to execute this Second Supplemental Indenture pursuant to Section 201 of the Base Indenture to establish the form, and pursuant to Section 301 of the Base Indenture to provide for the issuance, of a series of its senior notes designated as its 5.875% Senior Notes due 2022 (the ""), in an initial aggregate principal amount of $750,000,000. The Notes are a series of Securities as referred to in Section 301 of the Base Indenture.
WHEREAS
Notes
, the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate pursuant to Sections 102 and 903 of the Base Indenture to the effect that the execution and delivery of the Second Supplemental Indenture is authorized or permitted under the Base Indenture and that all conditions precedent provided for in the Base Indenture to the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture and the issuance of the Notes to be complied with by the Company have been complied with;
WHEREAS
, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Second Supplemental Indenture;
WHEREAS
, all things necessary have been done by the Company to make this Second Supplemental Indenture, when executed and delivered by the Company, a valid and legally binding instrument; and
WHEREAS
, all things necessary have been done by the Company to make the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, the valid obligations of the Company;
WHEREAS
 
NOW, THEREFORE:
In consideration of the premises stated herein and the purchase of the Notes by the holders thereof, the Company and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective holders from time to time of the Notes as follows:
Section 1.01. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Second Supplemental Indenture, all provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture are expressly and solely for the benefit of the holders of the Notes and any such provisions shall not be deemed to apply to any other Securities issued under the Base Indenture and shall not be deemed to amend, modify or supplement the Base Indenture for any purpose other than with respect to the Notes. Unless otherwise expressly specified, references in this Second Supplemental Indenture to specific Article numbers or Section numbers refer to Articles and Sections contained in this Second Supplemental Indenture as they amend or supplement the Base Indenture, and not the Base Indenture or any other document. All Initial Notes and Additional Notes, if any, will be treated as a single class for all purposes of the Indenture, including waivers, amendments, redemptions and offers to purchase.
Application of Second Supplemental Indenture
Section 2.01. . For purposes of this Second Supplemental Indenture, all capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Base Indenture, as amended hereby.
Certain Terms Defined in the Indenture
Section 2.02. . For the benefit of the holders of the Notes, Section 101 of the Base Indenture shall be amended by adding the following new definitions:
Definitions
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.02(b) hereof.
Additional Notes
means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
"Adjusted Treasury Rate"
"" has the meaning specified in the recitals hereof.
Base Indenture
means the United States Treasury security selected by a Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Issue"
means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after
"Comparable Treasury Price"
 
excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than three such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(a) hereof.
Global Note
"" has the meaning specified in the recitals hereof.
Indenture
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.02(b) hereof.
Initial Notes
"" has the meaning specified in the recitals hereof.
Notes
means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
"Quotation Agent"
means (1) Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and its successors; provided, however, that if the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer"
means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and ask prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations"
"" means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date for such redemption; , that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
provided, however
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.01 hereof.
TIA
"" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph hereof.
Trustee
Section 3.01. . The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication thereon shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto. The Notes shall be executed on behalf of the Company by an Officer of the Company. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rules or usage. Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes shall be in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Form and Dating
Exhibit A
 
The terms and notations contained in the Notes shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of the Indenture, and the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
(a) . The Notes shall be issued initially in global form (the ""), which shall be deposited with the Trustee as custodian for the Depositary and registered in the name of Cede & Co., the Depositary's nominee, duly executed on behalf of the Company by an Officer of the Company, and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with Section 202 of the Base Indenture.
Global Notes
Global Notes
(b) . This Section 3.01(b) shall apply only to the Global Notes deposited with the Trustee as custodian for the Depositary.
Book-Entry Provisions
The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with Section 202 of the Base Indenture, authenticate, and hold each Global Note as custodian for the Depositary.
Section 3.02. . The following terms relating to the Notes are hereby established pursuant to Section 301 of the Base Indenture:
Terms of the Notes
(a) . The Notes shall constitute a series of Notes having the title "5.875% Senior Notes due 2022".
Title
(b) . The aggregate principal amount of the Notes (the "") that may be initially authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be $750,000,000. The Company may from time to time, without the consent of the holders of Notes, issue additional Notes (the "") having the same ranking and the same interest rate, Maturity and other terms as the Initial Notes (except for the payment of interest accruing prior to the issue date of such Additional Notes, or, in some cases, the first Interest Payment Date following the issue of such Additional Notes). Any Additional Notes and the Initial Notes shall constitute a single series under the Indenture and all references to the Notes shall include the Initial Notes and any Additional Notes, unless the context otherwise requires. The aggregate principal amount of the Additional Notes shall be unlimited.
Principal Amount
Initial Notes
Additional Notes
(c) . The entire Outstanding principal of the Notes shall be payable on September 15, 2022.
Maturity Date
 
(d) . The rate at which the Notes shall bear interest shall be 5.875% per annum. The date from which interest shall accrue on the Notes shall be September 27, 2012, or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or provided for. The Interest Payment Dates for the Notes shall be March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning March 15, 2013. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date, will be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 1 or September 1, as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.
Interest Rate
(e) . The Trustee shall be the initial Paying Agent and Security Registrar. Payment of the principal and interest shall be at the corporate office of the Trustee in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York; , that each installment of interest and principal on the Notes may at the Company's option be paid by check to the holders at the holder's address in the Security Register. The Notes shall initially be issued as Global Notes. Payments with respect to Notes represented by one or more Global Notes shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account specified by the Depositary. Payments with respect to Notes represented by one or more Definitive Notes held by a holder of at least U.S.$1,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes shall be made by wire transfer to a U.S. dollar account maintained by the payee with a bank in the United States if such holder elects payment by wire transfer by giving written notice to the Trustee or the Paying Agent to such effect designating such account no later than 10 days immediately preceding the relevant due date for payment (or such other date as the Trustee or Paying Agent may accept in its discretion).
Payment
provided, however
(f) . The currency of denomination of the Notes is United States Dollars. Payment of principal of and interest and premium, if any, on the Notes shall be made in United States Dollars.
Currency
Section 3.03. .
Optional Redemption
(a) The Notes shall be redeemable in whole or in part at any time and from time to time at the Company's option. Upon redemption of the Notes, the Company shall pay a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, as the case may be; or
(ii) as determined by a Quotation Agent, the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points with respect to the Notes, plus, accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date.
 
Section 4.01. . If and to the extent that any provision of this Second Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by the Trust Indenture Act (the "") Sections 310 to 318, inclusive, or conflicts with any provision (an "incorporated provision") required by or deemed to be included in this Second Supplemental Indenture by operation of such TIA Sections, such imposed duties or incorporated provision shall control. If any provision of this Second Supplemental Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the TIA that may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Second Supplemental Indenture as so modified or excluded, as the case may be.
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
TIA
Section 4.02. .
New York Law to Govern
THE SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES. THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE IS SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE TRUST INDENTURE ACT THAT ARE REQUIRED TO BE PART OF THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND SHALL, TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE, BE GOVERNED BY SUCH PROVISIONS.
EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Section 4.03. . This Second Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. The exchange of copies of this Second Supplemental Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or PDF transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original Second Supplemental Indenture for all purposes. Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
Counterparts
Section 4.04. . In case any provision in this Second Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
Section 4.05. . The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by this Second Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed. The Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. All provisions included in this Second Supplemental Indenture with respect to the Notes supersede any conflicting
Ratification
 
provisions included in the Base Indenture unless not permitted by law. The Trustee accepts the trusts created by the Indenture, and agrees to perform the same upon the terms and conditions of the Indenture.
Section 4.06. . The provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture shall become effective as of the date hereof.
Effectiveness
Section 4.07. . The Trustee accepts the trusts created by the Indenture, and agrees to perform the same upon the terms and conditions of the Indenture. The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Second Supplemental Indenture or the due execution thereof by the Company. The recitals contained herein shall be taken as the statements solely of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof.
The Trustee
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Second Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
EXHIBIT A
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10041) TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT AND SUCH CERTIFICATE ISSUED IN EXCHANGE FOR THIS CERTIFICATE IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
CUSIP NO. 12686CBB4
ISIN NO. US12686CBB46
Cablevision Systems Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to                     or its registered assigns, the principal sum of [                    ] Million Dollars ($[        ]) on September 15, 2022, and to pay interest thereon from September 27, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year, commencing March 15, 2013, to the Persons in whose names the Notes are registered at the close of business on the immediately preceding March 1 or September 1, as the case may be, at the rate of 5.875% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, , that any principal and premium, if any, and any such installment of interest, which is overdue shall bear
provided
however
interest at the rate of 5.875% per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand). The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Notes (or one or more Predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 1 or September 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to holder of Notes of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York, New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
I W W, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
N
ITNESS
HEREOF
 
 
This is one of the Notes of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated:
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of April 2, 2010, as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 27, 2012 (herein collectively called the "Indenture", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
The Notes shall be redeemable in whole or in part at any time and from time to time at the Company's option. Upon redemption of the Notes, the Company shall pay a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
(a) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; or
(b) as determined by a Quotation Agent, the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date.
The following definitions shall apply to the Notes:
"Adjusted Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by a Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than three such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
"Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means (1) Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and its successors; provided, however, that if the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and ask prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Remaining Scheduled Payments" means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related Redemption Date for such redemption; , that, if such Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
provided, however
In the event of redemption of this Note in part only, a new Note or Notes of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Note or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the holders of the Notes of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Notes of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the holders of all Notes of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the holder of this Note shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Notes of this series, the holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Notes of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute
proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to it, and the Trustee shall not have received from the holders of a majority in principal amount of Notes of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the holder of this Note for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note may be registered and this Note may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture.
The Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts of laws principles.
Each of the Company and the Trustee hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Note.
All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint as agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                        
 
 
 
Date:
 
                    
Signature Guarantee: 
                                                                                                                                                                                    *
 
The following exchanges of an interest in this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of an interest in another Global Note or a Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note have been made:
 

Exhibit 5.1
September 27, 2012
Cablevision Systems Corporation,
1111 Stewart Avenue,
Bethpage, New York 11714.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
In connection with the registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act") of $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.875% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "Securities") pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of April 2, 2010, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 15, 2010, and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 27, 2012 (together, the "Indenture"), between Cablevision Systems Corporation (the "Company") and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee (the "Trustee"), we, as your counsel, have examined such corporate records, certificates and other documents, and such questions of law, as we have considered necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this opinion.
Upon the basis of such examination, we advise you that, in our opinion, the Securities constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
As contemplated by the qualifications set forth above, in rendering the foregoing opinion, we are expressing no opinion as to Federal or state laws relating to fraudulent transfers.
The foregoing opinion is limited to the Federal laws of the United States and the laws of the State of New York, and we are expressing no opinion as to the effect of the laws of any other jurisdiction nor with respect to any Federal or state laws relating to communications and telecommunications, including laws which regulate individuals, companies or businesses because such entities provide communications or telecommunications services, including the provision of cable television services or telephone services.
We have relied as to certain factual matters on information obtained from public officials, officers of the Company and other sources believed by us to be responsible, and we have assumed that the Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Trustee, that the Securities conform to the specimen thereof examined by us, that the Trustee's certificate of authentication of the Securities has been manually signed by one of the Trustee's authorized officers, and the signatures on all documents examined by us are genuine, assumptions which we have not independently verified.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company for purposes of incorporating this opinion into the registration statement relating to the Securities and to the references to us under the heading "Validity of the Notes" in the prospectus supplement relating to the Securities. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act.
 


