FILE:CNP/CNP-8K-20031105144134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): OCTOBER 29, 2003 ------------------------------ CENTERPOINT ENERGY, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) TEXAS 1-31447 74-0694415 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 1111 LOUISIANA HOUSTON, TEXAS 77002 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrants' telephone number, including area code: (713) 207-1111 ------------------------------ CENTERPOINT ENERGY RESOURCES CORP. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) DELAWARE 1-13265 76-0511406 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 1111 LOUISIANA HOUSTON, TEXAS 77002 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrants' telephone number, including area code: (713) 207-1111 ------------------------------
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS. On November 3, 2003, CenterPoint Energy, Inc. announced that CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. ("CERC") had issued senior notes totaling $160 million in a private placement with institutions pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. A copy of that press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1. For a description of the senior notes, please refer to the Indenture dated as of February 1, 1998 between CERC (formerly NorAm Energy Corp.) and JPMorgan Chase Bank (successor to Chase Bank of Texas, National Association), as trustee (the "Indenture"), and to Supplemental Indenture No. 7 dated as of November 3, 2003, to the Indenture between CERC and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee. The Indenture and Supplemental Indenture No. 7 are attached to this report as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively. The Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 3, 2003, among CERC, Barclays Capital Inc. and Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, as initial purchasers, relating to the senior notes is attached to this report as Exhibit 4.3. The senior notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements. This report does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale of any securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed herewith: 4.1 Indenture dated as of February 1, 1998 between CERC (formerly NorAm Energy Corp.) and JPMorgan Chase Bank (successor to Chase Bank of Texas, National Association), as trustee (the "Indenture") (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to CERC's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 5, 1998) 4.2 Supplemental Indenture No. 7 dated as of November 3, 2003 to Indenture between CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee 4.3 Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 3, 2003, among CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp., Barclays Capital Inc. and Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, as initial purchasers 99.1 Press Release issued November 3, 2003 regarding private placement of senior notes
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CENTERPOINT ENERGY RESOURCES CORP. Date: November 5, 2003 By: /s/ James S. Brian ---------------------------------- James S. Brian Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CENTERPOINT ENERGY RESOURCES CORP. Date: November 5, 2003 By: /s/ James S. Brian ---------------------------------- James S. Brian Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Exhibit Description ------ ------------------- 4.1 Indenture dated as of February 1, 1998 between CERC (formerly NorAm Energy Corp.) and JPMorgan Chase Bank (successor to Chase Bank of Texas, National Association), as trustee (the "Indenture") (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to CERC's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 5, 1998) 4.2 Supplemental Indenture No. 7 dated as of November 3, 2003 to Indenture between CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee 4.3 Registration Rights Agreement dated as of November 3, 2003, among CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp., Barclays Capital Inc. and Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, as initial purchasers 99.1 Press Release issued November 3, 2003 regarding private placement of senior notes

EXHIBIT 4.2 CENTERPOINT ENERGY RESOURCES CORP. (formerly known as NorAm Energy Corp.) To JPMORGAN CHASE BANK (successor to Chase Bank of Texas, National Association), Trustee ------------------ SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 7 Dated as of November 3, 2003 ----------------- $160,000,000 5.95% Senior Notes due 2014 Series A and Series B
CENTERPOINT ENERGY RESOURCES CORP. (formerly known as NorAm Energy Corp.) SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 7 $160,000,000 5.95% Senior Notes due 2014 Series A and Series B SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE No. 7, dated as of November 3, 2003, between CENTERPOINT ENERGY RESOURCES CORP., a Delaware corporation formerly known as NorAm Energy Corp. (the "Company"), and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK (successor to Chase Bank of Texas, National Association), as Trustee (the "Trustee"). RECITALS The Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an Indenture, dated as of February 1, 1998 (the "Original Indenture" and, as previously and hereby supplemented and amended, the "Indenture"), providing for the issuance from time to time of one or more series of the Company's Securities. The Company has changed its name from "NorAm Energy Corp." to "CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp." and all references in the Indenture to the "Company" or "NorAm Energy Corp." shall be deemed to refer to CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. Pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of two new series of Securities to be designated as the "5.95% Senior Notes due 2014, Series A" also referred to as the 5.95% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "Series A Notes") and the "5.95% Senior Notes due 2014, Series B" (the "Series B Notes" and, together with the Series A Notes, the "Notes"), the form and substance of such Notes and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Original Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture No. 7. Section 301 of the Original Indenture provides that various matters with respect to any series of Securities issued under the Indenture may be established in an indenture supplemental to the Indenture. Subparagraph (7) of Section 901 of the Original Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee may enter into an indenture supplemental to the Indenture to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 201 and 301 of the Original 2
Indenture. For and in consideration of the premises and the issuance of the series of Securities provided for herein, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series, as follows: ARTICLE ONE Relation to Indenture; Additional Definitions Section 101. Relation to Indenture. This Supplemental Indenture No. 7 constitutes an integral part of the Original Indenture. Section 102. Additional Definitions. For all purposes of this Supplemental Indenture No. 7: Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meaning specified herein or in the Original Indenture, as the case may be; "Acquired Entity" has the meaning set forth in Section 303(k) hereof; "Additional Interest" has the meaning set forth in Section 204(e) hereof; "Capital Lease" means a lease that, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, would be recorded as a capital lease on the balance sheet of the lessee; "Comparable Treasury Yield" has the meaning set forth in Section 402(a) hereof; "Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the total amount of assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries less, without duplication: (a) total current liabilities (excluding indebtedness due within 12 months); (b) all reserves for depreciation and other asset valuation reserves, but excluding reserves for deferred federal income taxes arising from accelerated amortization or otherwise; (c) all intangible assets such as goodwill, trademarks, trade names, patents and unamortized debt discount and expense carried as an asset; and (d) all appropriate adjustments on account of minority interests of other Persons holding common stock of any Subsidiary, all as reflected in the Company's most recent audited consolidated balance sheet preceding the date of such determination; "Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered, as follows: (a) for payment, registration and transfer of the Securities: 2001 Bryan Street, 9th Floor, Dallas, Texas 75201, Attention: Bondholder Communications; telephone (214) 672-5125 or (800) 275-2048; telecopy: (214) 672-5873; and (b) for all other communications relating to the Securities: 600 Travis Street, Suite 1150, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention: Institutional Trust Services; telephone: (713) 216-6815; telecopy: (713) 577-5200. 3
"Distribution Compliance Period" means the period which expires immediately after the 40th day following the later of: (a) the commencement of the offering of the Notes to Persons other than "distributors" (as defined in Regulation S) in reliance upon Regulation S; and (b) the date of closing of the offering of the Notes; "Equity Interests" means any capital stock, partnership, joint venture, member or limited liability or unlimited liability company interest, beneficial interest in a trust or similar entity or other equity interest or investment of whatever nature; "Exchange Offer" means the offer by the Company pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement to the Holders of all outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities to exchange all such outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities held by such Holders for Series B Notes, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities tendered in such exchange offer by such Holders; "Exchange Offer Registration Statement" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Registration Rights Agreement; "Global Notes" has the meaning set forth in Section 208(c) hereof; "H.15 Statistical Release" has the meaning set forth in Section 402(b) hereof; The term "indebtedness," as applied to the Company or any Subsidiary, means bonds, debentures, notes and other instruments or arrangements representing obligations created or assumed by any such corporation, including any and all: (i) obligations for money borrowed (other than unamortized debt discount or premium); (ii) obligations evidenced by a note or similar instrument given in connection with the acquisition of any business, properties or assets of any kind; (iii) obligations as lessee under a Capital Lease; and (iv) any amendments, renewals, extensions, modifications and refundings of any such indebtedness or obligation listed in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above. All indebtedness secured by a lien upon property owned by the Company or any Subsidiary and upon which indebtedness any such corporation customarily pays interest, although any such corporation has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such indebtedness, shall for all purposes hereof be deemed to be indebtedness of any such corporation. All indebtedness for borrowed money incurred by other Persons which is directly guaranteed as to payment of principal by the Company or any Subsidiary shall for all purposes hereof be deemed to be indebtedness of any such corporation, but no other contingent obligation of any such corporation in respect of indebtedness incurred by other Persons shall for any purpose be deemed to be indebtedness of such corporation; "Independent Investment Banker" has the meaning set forth in Section 401(c) hereof; "Initial Purchasers" means Barclays Capital Inc. and Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, as initial purchasers in the offering of the Series A Notes pursuant to the Offering Memorandum dated October 29, 2003 relating thereto; "Interest Payment Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 204(a) hereof; 4
"Issue Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 204(a) hereof; "lien" or "liens" have the meanings set forth in Section 303 hereof; "Make-Whole Premium" has the meaning set forth in Section 401(b) hereof; "Maturity Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 203 hereof; "Non-Recourse Debt" means (i) any indebtedness for borrowed money incurred by any Project Finance Subsidiary to finance the acquisition, improvement, installation, design, engineering, construction, development, completion, maintenance or operation of, or otherwise to pay costs and expenses relating to or providing financing for, any project, which indebtedness for borrowed money does not provide for recourse against the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company (other than a Project Finance Subsidiary and such recourse as exists under a Performance Guaranty) or any property or asset of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company (other than Equity Interests in, or the property or assets of, a Project Finance Subsidiary and such recourse as exists under a Performance Guaranty) and (ii) any refinancing of such indebtedness for borrowed money that does not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof (other than to pay costs incurred in connection therewith and the capitalization of any interest or fees) at the time of the refinancing or increase the property subject to any lien securing such indebtedness for borrowed money or otherwise add additional security or support for such indebtedness for borrowed money. "Non-U.S. Person" has the meaning set forth in Section 208(b); "Notes" has the meaning set forth in the third paragraph of the Recitals hereof; "Original Indenture" has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of the Recitals hereof; "Performance Guaranty" means any guaranty issued in connection with any Non-Recourse Debt that (i) if secured, is secured only by assets of or Equity Interests in a Project Finance Subsidiary, and (ii) guarantees to the provider of such Non-Recourse Debt or any other person (a) performance of the improvement, installation, design, engineering, construction, acquisition, development, completion, maintenance or operation of, or otherwise affects any such act in respect of, all or any portion of the project that is financed by such Non-Recourse Debt, (b) completion of the minimum agreed equity or other contributions or support to the relevant Project Finance Subsidiary, or (c) performance by a Project Finance Subsidiary of obligations to persons other than the provider of such Non-Recourse Debt. "Principal Property" means any natural gas distribution property, natural gas pipeline or gas processing plant located in the United States, except any such property that in the opinion of the Board of Directors is not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries. "Principal Property" shall not include any oil or gas property or the production or proceeds of production from an oil or gas producing property or the production or any proceeds of 5
production of gas processing plants or oil or gas or petroleum products in any pipeline or storage field; "Project Finance Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary designated by the Company whose principal purpose is to incur Non-Recourse Debt and/or construct, lease, own or operate the assets financed thereby, or to become a direct or indirect partner, member or other equity participant or owner in a Person created for such purpose, and substantially all the assets of which Subsidiary or Person are limited to (x) those assets being financed (or to be financed), or the operation of which is being financed (or to be financed), in whole or in part by Non-Recourse Debt, or (y) Equity Interests in, or indebtedness or other obligations of, one or more other such Subsidiaries or Persons, or (z) indebtedness or other obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary or other Persons. At the time of designation of any Project Finance Subsidiary, the sum of the net book value of the assets of such Subsidiary and the net book value of the assets of all other Project Finance Subsidiaries then existing shall not in the aggregate exceed 10 percent of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets. "Qualified Institutional Buyer" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 144A under the Securities Act; "Redemption Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 401(a) hereof; "Registrable Securities" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Registration Rights Agreement; "Registration Default" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Registration Rights Agreement; "Registration Rights Agreement" means that certain Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 3, 2003, by and among the Company and the Initial Purchasers; "Regular Record Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 204(b) hereof; "Regulation S" means Regulation S under the Securities Act; "Regulation S Global Notes" has the meaning set forth in Section 208(b) hereof; "Regulation S Permanent Global Note" has the meaning set forth in Section 208(b) hereof; "Regulation S Temporary Global Note" has the meaning set forth in Section 208(b) hereof; "Remaining Term" has the meaning set forth in Section 402(a) hereof; "Rule 144A Global Note" has the meaning set forth in Section 208(a) hereof; 6
"Rule 144A Information" has the meaning set forth in Section 504 hereof; "Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means any arrangement entered into by the Company or any Subsidiary with any Person providing for the leasing to the Company or any Subsidiary of any Principal Property (except for temporary leases for a term, including any renewal thereof, of not more than three years and except for leases between the Company and a Subsidiary or between Subsidiaries), which Principal Property has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Subsidiary to such Person; "Series A Notes" has the meaning set forth in the third paragraph of the Recitals hereof; "Series B Notes" has the meaning set forth in the third paragraph of the Recitals hereof; "Shelf Registration Statement" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Registration Rights Agreement; "Significant Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary of the Company, other than a Project Finance Subsidiary, that is a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as such regulation is in effect on the date of issuance of the Notes. "Subsidiary" of any entity means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than 50% of (i) the issued and outstanding capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency), (ii) the interest in the capital or profits of such limited liability company, partnership, joint venture or other entity or (iii) the beneficial interest in such trust or estate is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such entity, by such entity and one or more of its other subsidiaries or by one or more of such entity's other subsidiaries. "Transfer Restricted Securities" means the Registrable Securities under the Registration Rights Agreement. "Value" with respect to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction has the meaning set forth in Section 303 hereof; All references herein to Articles and Sections, unless otherwise specified, refer to the corresponding Articles and Sections of this Supplemental Indenture No. 7; and The terms "herein," "hereof," "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Supplemental Indenture No. 7. 7
ARTICLE TWO The Series of Securities Section 201. Title of the Securities. The Series A Notes shall be designated as the " 5.95% Notes due 2014, Series A," and the Series B Notes shall be designated as the "5.95% Notes due 2014, Series B." The Series A Notes and the Series B Notes shall be treated for all purposes under the Indenture as a single class or series of Securities. Section 202. Limitation on Aggregate Principal Amount. The Trustee shall authenticate and deliver (i) Series A Notes for original issue on the Issue Date in the aggregate principal amount of $160,000,000 and (ii) Series B Notes from time to time thereafter for issue only in exchange for a like principal amount of Series A Notes, in each case upon a Company Order for the authentication and delivery thereof and satisfaction of Sections 301 and 303 of the Original Indenture. Such order shall specify the amount of the Notes to be authenticated, the date on which the original issue of Notes is to be authenticated and the name or names of the initial Holder or Holders. The aggregate principal amount of Notes that may initially be outstanding shall not exceed $160,000,000; provided, however, that the authorized aggregate principal amount of the Notes may be increased above such amount by a Board Resolution to such effect. Section 203. Stated Maturity. The Stated Maturity of the Notes shall be January 15, 2014 (the "Maturity Date"). Section 204. Interest and Interest Rates. (a) The Notes shall bear interest at the rate of 5.95% per annum, from and including November 3, 2003 (the "Issue Date") to, but excluding, the Maturity Date. Such interest shall be payable semiannually in arrears, on January 15 and July 15, of each year (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing July 15, 2004. (b) The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Notes (or one or more Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on the immediately preceding January 1 and July 1, respectively, whether or not such day is a Business Day (each such date, a "Regular Record Date"). Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and shall either (i) be paid to the Person in whose name such Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of the Notes not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or (ii) be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Notes may be listed or traded, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange or automated quotation system, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. (c) The amount of interest payable for any period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. The amount of interest payable for any partial period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months and the days elapsed in any partial month. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on a Note is not a 8
Business Day, then a payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay) with the same force and effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable. (d) Any principal and premium, if any, and any installment of interest, which is overdue shall bear interest at the rate of 5.95% per annum (to the extent permitted by law), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand. (e) The interest rate borne by the Registrable Securities will be increased by .25% per annum upon the occurrence of each Registration Default, which rate will increase by an additional .25% per annum if such Registration Default has not been cured within 90 days after the occurrence thereof and will continue until all Registration Defaults have been cured ("Additional Interest"); provided that the aggregate amount of any such increase in the interest rate on the Registrable Securities shall in no event exceed .50% per annum; provided, further, that if the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not declared effective on or prior to the 270th calendar day following the Issue Date and the Company shall request Holders of Registrable Securities to provide the information called for by the Registration Rights Agreement for inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement, the Registrable Securities owned by Holders who do not deliver such information to the Company or who do not provide comments to the Company on the Shelf Registration Statement when required pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement shall not be entitled to any such Additional Interest for any day after the 315th calendar day following the Issue Date. All accrued Additional Interest shall be paid to Holders of Registrable Securities in the same manner and at the same time as regular payments of interest on the Registrable Securities. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults, the accrual of Additional Interest shall cease and the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will revert to 5.95% per annum. Section 205. Place of Payment. The Trustee shall initially serve as the Paying Agent for the Notes. The Place of Payment where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for payment shall be the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee in Dallas, Texas. Section 206. Place of Registration or Exchange; Notices and Demands With Respect to the Notes. The place where the Holders of the Notes may present the Notes for registration of transfer or exchange and may make notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes shall be the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. Section 207. Percentage of Principal Amount. The Notes shall be initially issued at 99.508% of their principal amount plus accrued interest, if any, from November 3, 2003. Section 208. Global Notes. (a) Notes offered and sold to Qualified Institutional Buyers pursuant to Rule 144A shall be issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more permanent Global Securities in definitive, fully registered, book-entry form, without interest coupons (collectively, the "Rule 144A Global Note"). The Rule 144A Global Note shall be deposited on the Issue Date with, or 9
on behalf of, the Depositary. Interests in the Rule 144A Global Note shall be available for purchase only by Qualified Institutional Buyers. (b) Notes offered and sold in offshore transactions to persons other than "U.S. persons," as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act (each, a "Non-U.S. Person") in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act shall initially be issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more temporary Global Securities in definitive, fully registered, book-entry form, without interest coupons (collectively, the "Regulation S Temporary Global Note"). Beneficial interests in the Regulation S Temporary Global Note shall be exchanged for beneficial interests in, and the Regulation S Temporary Global Note shall become, a corresponding Global Security (the "Regulation S Permanent Global Note" and, together with the Regulation S Temporary Global Note, the "Regulation S Global Notes") within a reasonable period after the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period upon certification that the beneficial interests in the Regulation S Temporary Global Note are owned by either Non-U.S. Persons or U.S. persons who purchased such interests pursuant to an exemption from, or in transactions not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Prior to the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period, interests in the Regulation S Temporary Global Note may only be held through Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System, and Clearstream Banking, societe anonyme (as indirect participants in the Depositary), unless exchanged for interests in the Rule 144A Global Notes in accordance with the transfer and certification requirements described herein. Notwithstanding Section 305 of the Original Indenture, in no event shall beneficial interests in the Regulation S Temporary Global Note of a series be transferred or exchanged for Notes of such series in definitive form prior to (x) the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period and (y) the receipt by the Security Registrar of any certificates required pursuant to Rule 903(b)(3)(ii)(B) of Regulation S under the Securities Act. (c) Each of the Rule 144A Global Note and the Regulation S Global Notes (collectively, the "Global Notes") shall represent such of the Notes as shall be specified therein and shall each provide that it shall represent the aggregate principal amount of Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges or redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount, of Notes represented thereby shall be reflected by the Trustee on Schedule A attached to the Note and made by the Trustee in accordance with written instructions or such other written form of instructions as is customary for the Depositary, from the Depositary or its nominee on behalf of any Person having a beneficial interest in the Global Note. (d) The Depository Trust Company shall initially serve as Depositary with respect to the Global Notes. Such Global Notes shall bear the legends set forth in the form of Security attached as Exhibit A hereto. Section 209. Form of Securities. The Global Notes shall be substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A hereto. Section 210. Securities Registrar. The Trustee shall initially serve as the Security Registrar for the Notes. 10
Section 211. Defeasance and Discharge; Covenant Defeasance. (a) Article Fourteen of the Original Indenture, including without limitation, Sections 1402 and 1403 (as modified by Section 211(b) hereof) thereof, shall apply to the Notes. (b) Solely with respect to the Notes issued hereby, the first sentence of Section 1403 of the Original Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety, and the following is substituted in lieu thereof: "Upon the Company's exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, (1) the Company shall be released from its obligations under Article Eight and under any covenants provided pursuant to Section 301(20), 901(2) or 901(7) for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, including, without limitation, the covenants provided for in Article Three of Supplemental Indenture No. 7 to the Indenture, and (2) the occurrence of any event specified in Sections 501(4) (with respect to Article Eight and to any such covenants provided pursuant to Section 301(20), 901(2) or 901(7)) and 501(7) shall be deemed not to be or result in an Event of Default, in each case with respect to such Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1404 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Covenant Defeasance")." Section 212. Sinking Fund Obligations. The Company shall have no obligation to redeem or purchase any Notes pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous requirement or upon the happening of a specified event or at the option of a Holder thereof. ARTICLE THREE Additional Covenants Section 301. Maintenance of Properties. The Company shall cause all properties used or useful in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order and supplied with all necessary equipment and shall cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly conducted at all times; provided, however, that nothing in this Section shall prevent the Company from discontinuing the operation or maintenance of any of such properties if such discontinuance is, in the judgment of the Company, desirable in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary. Section 302. Payment of Taxes and Other Claims. The Company shall pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, (1) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Subsidiary, and (2) all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the property of the Company or any Subsidiary; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge 11
or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings. Section 303. Restrictions on Liens. The Company shall not pledge, mortgage or hypothecate, or permit to exist, and shall not cause, suffer or permit any Subsidiary to pledge, mortgage or hypothecate, or permit to exist, except in favor of the Company or any Subsidiary, any mortgage, deed of trust, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, charge, security interest, encumbrance or lien of any kind whatsoever (including any Capital Lease) (collectively, a "lien" or "liens") upon, any Principal Property or any Equity Interest in any Significant Subsidiary owning any Principal Property, at any time owned by it or a Subsidiary, to secure any indebtedness, without making effective provisions whereby the Notes shall be equally and ratably secured with or prior to any and all such indebtedness and any other indebtedness similarly entitled to be equally and ratably secured; provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to or prevent the creation or existence of: (a) undetermined or inchoate liens and charges incidental to construction, maintenance, development or operation; (b) the lien of taxes and assessments for the then current year; (c) the lien of taxes and assessments not at the time delinquent; (d) the lien of specified taxes and assessments which are delinquent but the validity of which is being contested at the time by the Company or such Subsidiary in good faith and by appropriate proceedings; (e) any obligations or duties, affecting the property of the Company or such Subsidiary, to any municipality or public authority with respect to any franchise, grant, license, permit or similar arrangement; (f) the liens of any judgments or attachment in an aggregate amount not in excess of $10,000,000, or the lien of any judgment or attachment the execution or enforcement of which has been stayed or which has been appealed and secured, if necessary, by the filing of an appeal bond; (g) any lien on any property held or used by the Company or a Subsidiary in connection with the exploration for, development of or production of oil, gas, natural gas (including liquefied gas and storage gas), other hydrocarbons, helium, coal, metals, minerals, steam, timber, geothermal or other natural resources or synthetic fuels, such properties to include, but not be limited to, the Company's or a Subsidiary's interest in any mineral fee interests, oil, gas or other mineral leases, royalty, overriding royalty or net profits interests, production payments and other similar interests, wellhead production equipment, tanks, field gathering lines, leasehold or field separation and processing facilities, compression facilities and other similar personal property and fixtures; (h) any lien on oil, gas, natural gas (including liquefied gas and storage gas), and other hydrocarbons, helium, coal, metals, minerals, steam, timber, geothermal or other natural 12
resources or synthetic fuels produced or recovered from any property, an interest in which is owned or leased by the Company or a Subsidiary; (i) liens upon any property heretofore or hereafter acquired, constructed or improved, created at the later of the time of acquisition or commercial operation thereof, or within one year thereafter (and accessions and proceeds thereof), to secure all or a portion of the purchase price thereof or the cost of such construction or improvement, or existing thereon at the date of acquisition, whether or not assumed by the Company or a Subsidiary, provided that every such lien shall apply only to the property so acquired or constructed and fixed improvements thereon (and accessions and proceeds thereof); (j) any extension, renewal or refunding, in whole or in part, of any lien permitted by subparagraph (i) above, if limited to the same property or any portion thereof subject to, and securing not more than the amount secured by, the lien extended, renewed or refunded; (k) liens upon any property of any entity heretofore or hereafter acquired by any entity that is or becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof ("Acquired Entity") provided that every such lien (1) shall either (A) exist prior to the time the Acquired Entity becomes a Subsidiary or (B) be created at the time the Acquired Entity becomes a Subsidiary or within one year thereafter to secure all or a portion of the acquisition price thereof and (2) shall only apply to those properties owned by the Acquired Entity at the time it becomes a Subsidiary or thereafter acquired by it from sources other than the Company or any other Subsidiary; (l) the pledge of current assets, in the ordinary course of business, to secure current liabilities; (m) any lien arising by reason of deposits with, or the giving of any form of security to, any governmental agency or any body created or approved by law or governmental regulation for any purpose at any time in connection with the financing of the acquisition or construction of property to be used in the business of the Company or a Subsidiary or as required by law or governmental regulation as a condition to the transaction of any business or the exercise of any privilege or license, or to enable the Company or a Subsidiary to maintain self-insurance or to participate in any funds established to cover any insurance risks or in connection with workmen's compensation, unemployment insurance, old age pensions or other social security, or to share in the privileges or benefits required for companies participating in such arrangements; the lien reserved in leases for rent and for compliance with the terms of the lease in the case of leasehold estates; mechanics' or materialmen's liens, any liens or charges arising by reason of pledges or deposits to secure payment of workmen's compensation or other insurance, good faith deposits in connection with tenders, leases of real estate, bids or contracts (other than contracts for the payment of money), deposits to secure duties or public or statutory obligations, deposits to secure, or in lieu of, surety, stay or appeal bonds, and deposits as security for the payment of taxes or assessments or similar charges; (n) any lien of or upon any office equipment, data processing equipment (including, without limitation, computer and computer peripheral equipment), or transportation equipment (including, without limitation, motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, marine vessels, barges, towboats, rolling stock and aircraft); 13
(o) any lien created or assumed by the Company or a Subsidiary in connection with the issuance of debt securities the interest on which is excludable from gross income of the holder of such security pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, for the purposes of financing, in whole or in part, the acquisition or construction of property to be used by the Company or a Subsidiary; or (p) the pledge or assignment of accounts receivable, or the pledge or assignment of conditional sales contracts or chattel mortgages and evidences of indebtedness secured thereby, received in connection with the sale by the Company or such Subsidiary or others of goods or merchandise to customers of the Company or such Subsidiary. In case the Company or any Subsidiary shall propose to pledge, mortgage, or hypothecate any Principal Property at any time owned by it to secure any indebtedness, other than as permitted by paragraphs (a) to (p), inclusive, of this Section 303, the Company shall prior thereto give written notice thereof to the Trustee, and the Company shall or shall cause such Subsidiary to, prior to or simultaneously with such pledge, mortgage or hypothecation, by supplemental indenture executed to the Trustee (or to the extent legally necessary to another trustee or additional or separate trustee), in form satisfactory to the Trustee, effectively secure all the Notes equally and ratably with, or prior to, such indebtedness. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 303, the Company or a Subsidiary may issue, assume or guarantee indebtedness secured by a mortgage which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions in an aggregate amount which, together with all other indebtedness of the Company or a Subsidiary secured by a mortgage which, (if originally issued, assumed or guaranteed at such time) would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions (not including indebtedness permitted to be secured under paragraphs (a) through (p) above) and the Value of all Sale and Leaseback Transactions in existence at such time (other than any Sale and Leaseback Transaction which, if such Sale and Leaseback Transaction had been a lien, would have been permitted by paragraph (i) of this Section 303 and other than Sale and Leaseback Transactions as to which application of amounts have been made in accordance with Section 304) does not at the time of incurrence of such indebtedness exceed 5% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets. "Value" means, with respect to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, as of any particular time, the amount equal to the greater of (1) the net proceeds from the sale or transfer of the property leased pursuant to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction or (2) the fair value, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, of such property at the time of entering into such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, in either case divided first by the number of full years of the term of the lease and then multiplied by the number of full years of such term remaining at the time of determination, without regard to any renewal or extension options contained in the lease. For purposes of this Section 303, "Subsidiary" does not include a Project Finance Subsidiary. Section 304. Restrictions on Sale and Leaseback Transactions. The Company shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction unless the net proceeds of such sale are at least equal to the fair value (as determined by the Board of Directors) of such Principal Property and either (a) the Company or such Subsidiary would be 14
entitled, pursuant to the provisions of (1) paragraph (i) of Section 303 or (2) paragraph (k) of Section 303, to incur indebtedness secured by a lien on the Principal Property to be leased without equally and ratably securing the Notes, or (b) the Company shall, and in any such case the Company covenants that it will, within 120 days of the effective date of any such arrangement, apply an amount not less than the fair value (as so determined) of such Principal Property (i) to the payment or other retirement of Funded Debt incurred or assumed by the Company which ranks senior to or pari passu with the Notes or of Funded Debt incurred or assumed by any Subsidiary (other than, in either case, Funded Debt owned by the Company or any Subsidiary), or (ii) to the purchase at not more than fair value (as so determined) of Principal Property (other than the Principal Property involved in such sale). For this purpose, "Funded Debt" means any indebtedness which by its terms matures at or is extendable or renewable at the sole option of the obligor thereon without requiring the consent of the obligee to a date more than 12 months after the date of the creation of such indebtedness. For purposes of this Section 304, "Subsidiary" does not include a Project Finance Subsidiary. ARTICLE FOUR Optional Redemption of the Notes Section 401. Redemption Price. (a) The Company shall have the right to redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at its option at any time from time to time at a price equal to (i) 100% of the principal amount thereof plus (ii) accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any, including Additional Interest, if any, to but excluding the Redemption Date plus (iii) the Make-Whole Premium, if any (collectively, the "Redemption Price"). (b) The amount of the Make-Whole Premium with respect to any Note (or portion thereof) to be redeemed will be equal to the excess, if any, of: (i) the sum of the present values, calculated as of the Redemption Date, of: (A) each interest payment that, but for such redemption, would have been payable on the Note (or portion thereof) being redeemed on each Interest Payment Date occurring after the Redemption Date (excluding any accrued and unpaid interest for the period prior to the Redemption Date); and (B) the principal amount that, but for such redemption, would have been payable on the Note (or portion thereof) being redeemed at the Maturity Date; over (ii) the principal amount of the Note (or portion thereof) being redeemed. The present values of interest and principal payments referred to in clause (i) above will be determined in accordance with generally accepted principles of financial analysis. Such present values will be calculated by discounting the amount of each payment of interest or principal from the date that each such payment would have been payable, but for the redemption, to the Redemption Date at a discount rate equal to the Comparable Treasury Yield (as defined below) plus 35 basis points. (c) The Make-Whole Premium shall be calculated by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company; provided, that if the Company fails to make such appointment at least 45 days prior to the Redemption Date, or if the 15
institution so appointed is unwilling or unable to make such calculation, such calculation shall be made by Barclays Capital Inc. or Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, or, if such firms are unwilling or unable to make such calculation, by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company (in any such case, an "Independent Investment Banker"). Section 402. Make-Whole Premium Calculation. (a) For purposes of determining the Make-Whole Premium, "Comparable Treasury Yield" means a rate of interest per annum equal to the weekly average yield to maturity of United States Treasury securities that have a constant maturity that corresponds to the remaining term to maturity of the Notes, calculated to the nearest 1/12th of a year (the "Remaining Term"). The Comparable Treasury Yield shall be determined as of the third Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Redemption Date. (b) The weekly average yields of United States Treasury securities shall be determined by reference to the most recent statistical release published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and designated "H.15 (519) Selected Interest Rates" or any successor release (the "H.15 Statistical Release"). If the H.15 Statistical Release sets forth a weekly average yield for United States Treasury securities having a constant maturity that is the same as the Remaining Term, then the Comparable Treasury Yield shall be equal to such weekly average yield. In all other cases, the Comparable Treasury Yield shall be calculated by interpolation, on a straight-line basis, between the weekly average yields on the United States Treasury securities that have a constant maturity closest to and greater than the Remaining Term and the United States Treasury securities that have a constant maturity closest to and less than the Remaining Term (in each case as set forth in the H.15 Statistical Release). Any weekly average yields so calculated by interpolation shall be rounded to the nearest 1/100th of 1%, with any figure of 1/200th of 1% or above being rounded upward. If weekly average yields for United States Treasury securities are not available in the H.15 Statistical Release or otherwise, then the Comparable Treasury Yield shall be calculated by interpolation of comparable rates selected by the Independent Investment Banker. Section 403. Partial Redemption. If the Company redeems the Notes in part pursuant to this Article Four, the Trustee shall select the Notes to be redeemed on a pro rata basis or by lot or by such other method that the Trustee in its sole discretion deems fair and appropriate. The Company shall redeem Notes pursuant to this Article Four in multiples of $1,000 in original principal amount. A new Note in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the original Note shall be issued upon cancellation of the original Note. Section 404. Notice of Optional Redemption. If the Company elects to exercise its right to redeem all or some of the Notes pursuant to this Article Four, the Company or the Trustee shall mail a notice of such redemption to each Holder of a Note that is to be redeemed not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date. If any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption shall state the portion of the principal amount to be redeemed. 16
ARTICLE FIVE Restrictions on Transfer Section 501. Transfer and Exchange. (a) Transfer and Exchange of Notes in Definitive Form. In addition to the requirements set forth in Section 305 of the Original Indenture, Notes in definitive form that are Transfer Restricted Securities presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange pursuant to Section 305 of the Original Indenture shall be accompanied by the following additional information and documents, as applicable, upon which the Security Registrar may conclusively rely: (i) if such Transfer Restricted Securities are being delivered to the Security Registrar by a Holder for registration in the name of such Holder, without transfer, a certification from such Holder to that effect (in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto); or (ii) if such Transfer Restricted Securities are being transferred (1) to a Qualified Institutional Buyer in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act or (2) pursuant to an exemption from registration in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (and based upon an opinion of counsel if the Company or the Trustee so requests) or (3) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto); or (iii) if such Transfer Restricted Securities are being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person pursuant to an exemption from registration in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, certifications to that effect from such transferor (in substantially the form of Exhibits B and C hereto) and an opinion of counsel to that effect if the Company or the Trustee so requests; or (iv) if such Transfer Restricted Securities are being transferred in reliance on and in compliance with another exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, a certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto) and an opinion of counsel to that effect if the Company or the Trustee so requests. (b) Transfer and Exchange of the Notes. (i) The transfer and exchange of Global Notes or beneficial interests therein shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with Section 305 of the Original Indenture and Article V hereof (including the restrictions on transfer set forth therein and herein) and the rules and procedures of the Depositary therefor, which shall include restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth therein and herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. 17
(ii) The transfer and exchange of Global Notes or beneficial interests therein for certificated notes (or vice versa) shall be effected through the Trustee and the Depositary, as the case may be, in accordance with Section 305 of the Original Indenture and Article Five hereof (including the restrictions on transfer set forth therein and herein) and the rules and procedures of the Depositary therefor, which shall include restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth therein and herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Section 502. Legends. (a) Except as provided in this Section 502(a) and as permitted by Sections 502(b) and (c) hereof, each certificate evidencing the Global Notes or certificated notes in definitive form (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) other than those offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: THIS SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER OF THIS SECURITY MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (A) THIS SECURITY MAY BE OFFERED, RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (I) IN THE UNITED STATES TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (II) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (III) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF AVAILABLE) OR (IV) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, IN EACH OF CASES (I) THROUGH (IV) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES, AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS 18
REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER OF THE SECURITY FROM IT OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS REFERRED TO IN (A) ABOVE. Except as permitted by Sections 502(b) and (c) hereof, each certificate evidencing the Temporary Regulation S Global Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS SECURITY, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED SECURITIES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THIS SECURITY AND PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN). Except as permitted by Sections 502(b) and (c) hereof, each certificate evidencing the Global Notes or certificated notes offered and sold in reliance on Regulation S shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: THIS SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION ORIGINALLY EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED IN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, ANY U.S. PERSON EXCEPT PURSUANT TO AN AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND ALL APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. TERMS USED ABOVE HAVE THE MEANINGS GIVEN TO THEM IN REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT. Each certificate evidencing the Global Notes also shall bear the legend specified for Global Notes in the form of Note attached hereto as Exhibit A. (b) Upon any sale or transfer of a Transfer Restricted Security (including any Transfer Restricted Security represented by a Global Note) pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act or an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, which shall be certified to the Trustee and Security Registrar upon which each may conclusively rely: (i) in the case of any Transfer Restricted Security represented by a certificated note, the Security Registrar shall permit the Holder thereof to exchange such Transfer Restricted Security for a certificated note that does not bear the legend set forth in Section 502(a) hereof and rescind any restriction on the transfer of such Transfer Restricted Security; and (ii) in the case of any Transfer Restricted Security represented by a Global Note, such Transfer Restricted Security shall not be required to bear the legend set forth in Section 502(a) hereof if all other interests in such Global Note have been or are 19
concurrently being sold or transferred pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act or pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act. (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon consummation of the Exchange Offer, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 303 of the Original Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate Series B Notes in exchange for Series A Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer, which Series B Notes shall not bear the legend set forth in Section 502(a) hereof and shall not provide for Additional Interest, and the Security Registrar shall rescind any restriction on the transfer of such Notes, in each case unless the Holder of such Series A Notes (A) is a broker-dealer tendering Series A Notes acquired directly from the Company or an "affiliate" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) of the Company for its own account, (B) is a Person who at the time of consummation of the Exchange Offer has an arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the "distribution" (within the meaning of the Securities Act) of the Series B Notes, (C) is a Person who is an "affiliate" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) of the Company or (D) is a Person who will not be acquiring the Series B Notes in the ordinary course of such Holder's business. The Company shall identify to the Trustee such Holders of the Notes in a written certification signed by an officer of the Company and, absent certification from the Company to such effect, the Trustee shall assume that there are no such Holders. Section 503. Registration Rights Agreement. The Company shall perform its obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement and shall comply in all material respects with the terms and conditions contained therein including, without limitation, the payment of Additional Interest. Section 504. Delivery of Certain Information. At any time when the Company is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, upon the request of a Holder or any beneficial holder of Notes, the Company will promptly furnish or cause to be furnished Rule 144A Information (as defined below) to such Holder or any beneficial holder of Notes, or to a prospective purchaser of any such security designated by any such holder, as the case may be, to the extent required to permit compliance by such Holder or holder with Rule 144A under the Securities Act in connection with the resale of any such security. "Rule 144A Information" shall be such information as is specified pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act. ARTICLE SIX REMEDIES Section 601. Additional Events of Default; Acceleration of Maturity. (a) Solely with respect to the Notes issued hereby, Section 501(7) of the Original Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety, and the following is substituted in lieu thereof as an "Event of Default" in addition to the other events set forth in Section 501 of the Original Indenture: 20
"(7) the default by the Company or any Subsidiary, other than a Project Finance Subsidiary, in the payment, when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, of principal of indebtedness for money borrowed, other than Non-Recourse Debt, in the aggregate principal amount then outstanding of $50 million or more, or acceleration of any indebtedness for money borrowed in such aggregate principal amount so that it becomes due and payable prior to the date on which it would otherwise have become due and payable and such acceleration is not rescinded or such default is not cured within 30 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of Notes written notice specifying such default and requiring the Company to cause such acceleration to be rescinded or such default to be cured and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" under the Indenture;". (b) Solely with respect to the Notes issued hereby, the first paragraph of Section 502 of the Original Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety, and the following is substituted in lieu thereof: "If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or 501(6)) with respect to the Notes at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Notes Outstanding may declare the principal amount of all the Notes to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or 501(6) with respect to the Notes at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, the principal amount of all the Notes shall automatically, and without any declaration or other action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder, become immediately due and payable." ARTICLE SEVEN Miscellaneous Provisions Section 701. The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture No. 7, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed. Section 702. This Supplemental Indenture No. 7 may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. Section 703. THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 7 AND EACH NOTE SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT MADE UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE 21
OF NEW YORK AND SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF. Section 704. If any provision in this Supplemental Indenture No. 7 limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included herein by any provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control. Section 705. In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture No. 7 or the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. Section 706. The recitals contained herein shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the proper authorization or due execution hereof or of the Notes by the Company. 22
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture No. 7 to be duly executed, as of the day and year first written above. CENTERPOINT ENERGY RESOURCES CORP. By: /s/ Gary L. Whitlock ------------------------------ Name: Gary L. Whitlock Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Attest: /s/ Richard B. Dauphin - ------------------------------------ Name: Richard B. Dauphin Title: Assistant Corporate Secretary (SEAL) JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as Trustee By: /s/ Carol Logan --------------------------------------- Name: Carol Logan Title: Vice President and Trust Officer (SEAL) 23
Exhibit A [FORM OF FACE OF SECURITY] [Rule 144A Global Note] [Regulation S Global Note] [Certificated Note] [IF THIS SECURITY IS TO BE A GLOBAL NOTE -] THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY. THIS SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. [For as long as this Global Security is deposited with or on behalf of The Depository Trust Company it shall bear the following legend.] Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), to CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein. CENTERPOINT ENERGY RESOURCES CORP. 5.95% Senior Notes due 2014, Series [A/B] No. __________ $ __________ * CUSIP No. ________ CENTERPOINT ENERGY RESOURCES CORP., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware formerly known as NorAm Energy Corp. (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _______________, or registered assigns, the principal sum of ____________________ Dollars on January 15, 2014, - -------- * REFERENCE IS MADE TO SCHEDULE A ATTACHED HERETO WITH RESPECT TO DECREASES AND INCREASES IN THE AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF SECURITIES EVIDENCED BY THIS CERTIFICATE. A-1
and to pay interest thereon from November 3, 2003 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year, commencing July 15, 2004, at the rate of 5.95% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, provided that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest, which is overdue shall bear interest at the rate of 5.95% per annum (to the extent permitted by applicable law), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand. The amount of interest payable for any period shall be computed on the basis of twelve 30-day months and a 360-day year. The amount of interest payable for any partial period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months and the days elapsed in any partial month. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on this Security is not a Business Day, then a payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay) with the same force and effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable. A "Business Day" shall mean, when used with respect to any Place of Payment, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the January 1 or July 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and shall either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Securities of this series may be listed or traded, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange or automated quotation system, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee in Dallas, Texas, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer in immediately available funds at such place and to such account as may be designated in writing by the Person entitled thereto as specified in the Security Register. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. [DELETE THE FOLLOWING TWO-PARAGRAPH LEGEND, IF A REGULATION S GLOBAL NOTE.] [THIS SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) WAS ORIGINALLY A-2
ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER OF THIS SECURITY MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (A) THIS SECURITY MAY BE OFFERED, RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (I) IN THE UNITED STATES TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (II) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (III) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF AVAILABLE) OR (IV) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, IN EACH OF CASES (I) THROUGH (IV) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES, AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER OF THE SECURITY FROM IT OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS REFERRED TO IN (A) ABOVE.] [INSERT IF A TEMPORARY REGULATION S GLOBAL NOTE] [THE RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THIS SECURITY, AND THE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING ITS EXCHANGE FOR CERTIFICATED SECURITIES, ARE AS SPECIFIED IN THIS SECURITY AND PURSUANT TO THE INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN).] [INSERT REGULATION S LEGEND, IF A REGULATION S GLOBAL NOTE] [THIS SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION ORIGINALLY EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED IN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, ANY U.S. PERSON EXCEPT PURSUANT TO AN AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND ALL APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. TERMS USED ABOVE HAVE THE MEANINGS GIVEN TO THEM IN REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.] Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. A-3
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal. Dated: _______________ CENTERPOINT ENERGY RESOURCES CORP. By: ____________________________ Name: (SEAL) Title: Attest: _____________________ Name: Title: This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, As Trustee Date of Authentication:________________ By:_________________________ Authorized Signatory A-4
[FORM OF REVERSE SIDE OF SECURITY] CENTERPOINT ENERGY RESOURCES CORP. 5.95% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2014, SERIES [A/B] This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of February 1, 1998 (herein called the "Indenture", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank (successor to Chase Bank of Texas, National Association), as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $160,000,000; provided, however, that the authorized aggregate principal amount of the Securities may be increased above such amount by a Board Resolution to such effect. The Company shall have the right to redeem the Securities of this series, in whole or in part, at its option at any time from time to time at a price equal to (i) 100% of the principal amount thereof plus (ii) accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any, including Additional Interest, if any, to (but excluding) the Redemption Date plus (iii) the Make-Whole Premium, if any. The amount of the Make-Whole Premium with respect to any Security of this Series (or portion thereof) to be redeemed will be equal to the excess, if any, of: (i) the sum of the present values, calculated as of the Redemption Date, of: (A) each interest payment that, but for such redemption, would have been payable on the Security of this series (or portion thereof) being redeemed on each Interest Payment Date occurring after the Redemption Date (excluding any accrued and unpaid interest for the period prior to the Redemption Date); and (B) the principal amount that, but for such redemption, would have been payable on the Security of this series (or portion thereof) being redeemed at January 15, 2014; over (ii) the principal amount of the Security of this series (or portion thereof) being redeemed. The present values of interest and principal payments referred to in clause (i) above will be determined in accordance with generally accepted principles of financial analysis. Such present values will be calculated by discounting the amount of each payment of interest or principal from the date that each such payment would have been payable, but for the redemption, to the Redemption Date at a discount rate equal to the Comparable Treasury Yield (as defined below) plus 35 basis points. For purposes of determining the Make-Whole Premium, "Comparable Treasury Yield" means a rate of interest per annum equal to the weekly average yield to maturity of United States Treasury securities that have a constant maturity that corresponds to the remaining term to maturity of the Securities of this series, calculated to the nearest 1/12th of a year (the "Remaining Term"). The Comparable Treasury Yield shall be determined as of the third Business Day immediately preceding the Redemption Date. A-5
The weekly average yields of United States Treasury securities shall be determined by reference to the most recent statistical release published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and designated "H.15 (519) Selected Interest Rates" or any successor release (the "H.15 Statistical Release"). If the H.15 Statistical Release sets forth a weekly average yield for United States Treasury securities having a constant maturity that is the same as the Remaining Term, then the Comparable Treasury Yield shall be equal to such weekly average yield. In all other cases, the Comparable Treasury Yield shall be calculated by interpolation, on a straight-line basis, between the weekly average yields on the United States Treasury securities that have a constant maturity closest to and greater than the Remaining Term and the United States Treasury securities that have a constant maturity closest to and less than the Remaining Term (in each case as set forth in the H.15 Statistical Release). Any weekly average yields so calculated by interpolation shall be rounded to the nearest 1/100th of 1%, with any figure of 1/200th of 1% or above being rounded upward. If weekly average yields for United States Treasury securities are not available in the H.15 Statistical Release or otherwise, then the Comparable Treasury Yield shall be calculated by interpolation of comparable rates selected by the Independent Investment Banker. In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof. The Securities of this series are not entitled to the benefit of any sinking fund. The Indenture contains provisions for satisfaction and discharge of the entire indebtedness of this Security upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture. The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture. If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this A-6
Security. As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof; provided, however, that Securities of this series that are Transfer Restricted Securities issued to institutional accredited investors will be issued only in denominations of $250,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. A-7
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. By its acceptance of this Security bearing a legend restricting transfer, each Holder of this Security acknowledges the restrictions on transfer of this Security set forth in the Indenture and such legend and agrees that it will transfer this Security only as provided in the Indenture. In addition to the rights provided to Holders of this Security under the Indenture, Holders shall have all the rights set forth in that certain Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 3, 2003, among the Company and the Initial Purchasers, including without limitation the right to receive Additional Interest as described in Section 2.5 thereof. THE INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF. A-8
SCHEDULE A SCHEDULE OF ADJUSTMENTS The initial aggregate principal amount of Securities evidenced by the Certificate to which this Schedule is attached is _______________. The notations on the following table evidence decreases and increases in the aggregate principal amount of Securities evidenced by such Certificate. A-9
Exhibit B FORM OF CERTIFICATE TO BE DELIVERED UPON EXCHANGE OR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER OF SECURITIES Re: 5.95% Senior Notes due 2014, Series A, of CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. (the "Company") This Certificate relates to $_____ principal amount of Notes held in **______ book-entry or *______ definitive form by _____________________ (the "Transferor"). The Transferor has requested the Trustee by written order to exchange or register the transfer of a Note or Notes. In connection with such request and in respect of each such Note, the Transferor does hereby certify that the Transferor is familiar with the Indenture, dated as of February 1, 1998 (as amended or supplemented to date, the "Indenture"), between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, (the "Trustee") relating to the above-captioned Notes and that the transfer of this Note does not require registration under the Securities Act (as defined below) because:* [ ] Such Note is being acquired for the Transferor's own account without transfer. [ ] Such Note is being transferred (i) to a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act")), in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act or (ii) pursuant to an exemption from registration in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act (and in the case of clause (ii), based upon an opinion of counsel if the Company or the Trustee so requests, together with a certification in substantially the form of Exhibit C to Supplemental Indenture No. 7 to the Indenture). [ ] Such Note is being transferred (i) pursuant to an exemption from registration in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (and based upon an opinion of counsel if the Company or the Trustee so requests) or (ii) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act. [ ] Such Note is being transferred in reliance on and in compliance with another exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act (and based upon an opinion of counsel if the Company or the Trustee so requests). ___________________ * FILL IN BLANK OR CHECK APPROPRIATE BOX, AS APPLICABLE. B-1
You are entitled to rely upon this certificate and you are irrevocably authorized to produce this certificate or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceeding or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby. [INSERT NAME OF TRANSFEROR] By: ______________________________ Name: Title: Address: Date: _____________________ B-2
Exhibit C FORM OF CERTIFICATE TO BE DELIVERED IN CONNECTION WITH TRANSFERS PURSUANT TO REGULATION S _____________,_____ JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Security Registrar 600 Travis, Suite 1150 Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: Institutional Trust Services Ladies and Gentlemen: In connection with our proposed sale of certain 5.95% Senior Notes due 2014, Series A (the "Notes"), of CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. (the "Company"), we represent that: (i) the offer or sale of the Notes was made in an "offshore transaction"; (ii) at the time the buy order was originated, the transferee was outside the United States or we and any person acting on our behalf reasonably believed that the transferee was outside the United States; (iii) no directed selling efforts have been made by us in the United States in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(a) or Rule 904(a) of Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act:"), as applicable; (iv) if this transfer of the Note is being made prior to the expiration of the Distribution Compliance Period, such interest that is being transferred is held immediately thereafter through The Euroclear System or Clearstream Banking, societe anonyme; and (v) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act. C-1
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and you are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby. Terms used in this certificate have the meanings set forth in Regulation S under the Securities Act. Very truly yours, Name of Transferor: By: _______________________ Name: Title: Address: C-2

EXHIBIT 4.3 REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT This Registration Rights Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and entered into this 3rd day of November, 2003 among CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. (formerly named Reliant Energy Resources Corp.), a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), Barclays Capital Inc. and Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, as the initial purchasers (the "Initial Purchasers") listed on Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement (defined below). This Agreement is made pursuant to the Purchase Agreement dated October 29, 2003, among the Company and the Initial Purchasers (the "Purchase Agreement"), which provides for the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of an aggregate of $160,000,000 principal amount of the Company's 5.95% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "Securities"). In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement. In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows: 1. Definitions. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings: "1933 Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time. "1934 Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time. "Business Day" shall mean each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close and which shall be a "business day" as defined under Rule 14d-1 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. "Company" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include the Company's successors. "Depositary" shall mean The Depository Trust Company, or any other depositary for the Securities appointed by the Company; provided, however, that such depositary must have an address in the Borough of Manhattan, in the City of New York. "Exchange Offer" shall mean the exchange offer by the Company of Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof. "Exchange Offer Registration Statement" shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form), and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all documents incorporated by reference therein.
"Exchange Period" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 hereof. "Exchange Securities" shall mean the notes issued by the Company under the Indenture containing terms identical to the Securities in all material respects (except for references to certain interest rate provisions, restrictions on transfers and restrictive legends), to be offered to Holders of Securities in exchange for Registrable Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer. "Expiration Date" shall mean the date on which all the Participating Broker-Dealers have sold all Exchange Securities held by them. "Holder" shall mean an Initial Purchaser, for so long as it owns any Registrable Securities, and each of its successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become owners of Registrable Securities under the Indenture and each Participating Broker-Dealer that holds Exchange Securities for so long as such Participating Broker-Dealer is required to deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities. "Indenture" shall mean the Indenture, dated as of February 1, 1998 between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank (successor to Chase Bank of Texas, National Association), as trustee, as supplemented by a Supplemental Indenture No. 7, dated as of November 3, 2003, as the same may be amended, supplemented, waived or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof. "Initial Purchaser" or "Initial Purchasers" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble. "Majority Holders" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Outstanding (as defined in the Indenture) Registrable Securities or such smaller amount of Registrable Securities for which action is to be taken; provided that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, Registrable Securities held by the Company and other obligors on the Securities or any Affiliate (as defined in the Indenture) of the Company shall be disregarded in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage amount. "Participating Broker-Dealer" shall mean any Initial Purchaser, and any other broker-dealer who acquired the Registrable Securities for its own account as a result of market-making or other trading activities and exchanges Registrable Securities in the Exchange Offer for Exchange Securities. "Person" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, limited liability company, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof. "Prospectus" shall mean the prospectus included in a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including any such prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration 2
Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to a prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and in each case including all material incorporated by reference therein. "Purchase Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble. "Registrable Securities" shall mean the Securities; provided, however, that Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (i) a Registration Statement with respect to such Securities shall have been declared effective under the 1933 Act and such Securities shall have been disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement, (ii) such Securities have been sold to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the 1933 Act or may be sold pursuant to Rule 144(k) (or any similar provision then in force, but not Rule 144A) under the 1933 Act, (iii) such Securities shall have ceased to be outstanding or (iv) the Exchange Offer is consummated (except in the case of Securities purchased from the Company and continued to be held by the Initial Purchasers). "Registration Expenses" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including, without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. ("NASD") registration and filing fees, including, if applicable, the reasonable fees and expenses of any "qualified independent underwriter" (and its counsel) that is required to be retained by any holder of Registrable Securities in accordance with the rules and regulations of the NASD, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws and compliance with the rules of the NASD (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities and any filings with the NASD), (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements and other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing, if any, of any of the Registrable Securities on any securities exchange or exchanges, (v) all rating agency fees, (vi) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and of the independent public accountants of the Company, including the expenses of any special audits or "cold comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance and compliance, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, and any escrow agent or custodian, (viii) the reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm, at any one time, of legal counsel selected by the Representatives or the Majority Holders to represent the Holders of Registrable Securities and (ix) any reasonable fees and disbursements of the underwriters customarily required to be paid by issuers or sellers of securities and the fees and expenses of any special experts retained by the Company in connection with any Registration Statement, but excluding underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder. "Registration Statement" shall mean any registration statement of the Company which covers any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, and all amendments and supplements to any such Registration Statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein. 3
"SEC" shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor agency or governmental body performing the functions currently performed by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. "Securities" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble. "Shelf Registration" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof. "Shelf Registration Statement" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.2 of this Agreement which covers all of the Registrable Securities on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the 1933 Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein. "TIA" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. "Trustee" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture. 2. Registration Under the 1933 Act. 2.1 Exchange Offer. The Company shall, for the benefit of the Holders, at the Company's cost, use its reasonable commercial efforts (A) to file with the SEC the Exchange Offer Registration Statement not later than 180 days following the date of original issuance of the Securities with respect to a proposed Exchange Offer and the issuance and delivery to the Holders, in exchange for the Registrable Securities, of a like principal amount of Exchange Securities, (B) to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective under the 1933 Act within 270 days following the date of original issuance of the Securities, (C) to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective until the closing of the Exchange Offer and (D) unless the Exchange Offer would not be permitted by applicable law or SEC policy, to cause the Exchange Offer to be consummated within 315 days following the date of original issuance of the Securities. The Exchange Securities will be issued under the Indenture. Upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall promptly commence the Exchange Offer, it being the objective of such Exchange Offer to enable each Holder eligible and electing to exchange Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities (assuming that such Holder (A) is not an affiliate of the Company within the meaning of Rule 405 under the 1933 Act (an "Affiliate"), (B) is not a broker-dealer tendering Registrable Securities acquired directly from the Company or one of its Affiliates for its own account, (C) acquired the Exchange Securities in the ordinary course of such Holder's business and (D) at the time of the consummation of the Exchange Offer has no arrangements or understandings with any Person to participate in the Exchange Offer for the purpose of distributing the Exchange Securities) to transfer such Exchange Securities from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the 1933 Act and without material restrictions under the securities laws of a substantial portion of the several states of the United States. In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Company will: 4
(A) as promptly as practicable after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement has been declared effective by the SEC, mail to each Holder a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents; (B) keep the Exchange Offer open for acceptance for a period of not less than 20 Business Days after the date notice thereof is mailed to the Holders (or longer if required by applicable law) (such period referred to herein as the "Exchange Period"); (C) utilize the services of the Depositary for the Exchange Offer; (D) notify each Holder that any Holder electing to have a Registrable Security exchanged pursuant to the Exchange Offer will be required to surrender such Registrable Security, together with the appropriate letters of transmittal, to the institution and at the address and in the manner specified in the notice prior to 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on the last Business Day of the Exchange Period; (E) permit Holders to (i) withdraw tendered Registrable Securities at any time prior to 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on the last Business Day of the Exchange Period, by sending to the institution specified in the notice a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of Registrable Securities delivered for exchange and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing such Holder's election to have such Securities exchanged and (ii) tender Registrable Securities according to customary guaranteed delivery procedures if such Holder cannot deliver such Registrable Securities or complete the procedures relating thereto on a timely basis prior to 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on the last Business Day of the Exchange Period; (F) notify each Holder that any Registrable Security not tendered will remain outstanding and continue to accrue interest, but will not retain any rights under this Agreement (except in the case of the Initial Purchasers and Participating Broker Dealers as provided herein); and (G) otherwise comply in all material respects with all applicable laws relating to the Exchange Offer. As soon as practicable after the close of the Exchange Offer the Company shall: (A) accept for exchange all Registrable Securities duly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the terms of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and the letter of transmittal which shall be an exhibit thereto; (B) deliver or cause to be delivered all Registrable Securities accepted for exchange to the Trustee for cancellation; and (C) cause the Trustee promptly to authenticate and deliver Exchange Securities, to each Holder of Registrable Securities so accepted for exchange in a 5
principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Registrable Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange. Interest on each Exchange Security will accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the Registrable Securities surrendered in exchange therefor or, if no interest has been paid on the Registrable Securities, from the date of original issuance. The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than (A) that the Exchange Offer, or the making of any exchange by a Holder, does not violate applicable law or any applicable interpretation of the staff of the SEC, (B) the valid tendering of Registrable Securities in accordance with the Exchange Offer, (C) that each Holder of Registrable Securities exchanged in the Exchange Offer shall have represented that (i) it is not an affiliate of the Company within the meaning of Rule 405 under the 1933 Act, (ii) it is not a broker-dealer tendering Registrable Securities acquired directly from the Company or one of its Affiliates for its own account, (iii) all of the Exchange Securities to be received by it shall be acquired in the ordinary course of its business and (iv) at the time of the consummation of the Exchange Offer it shall have no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the 1933 Act) of the Exchange Securities, and shall have made such other representations as may be reasonably necessary under applicable SEC rules, regulations or interpretations to render the use of Form S-4 or other appropriate form under the 1933 Act available and (D) that no action or proceeding shall have been instituted or threatened in any court or by or before any governmental agency with respect to the Exchange Offer which, in the Company's judgment, would reasonably be expected to impair the ability of the Company to proceed with the Exchange Offer. The Company shall use its reasonable commercial efforts to inform the Initial Purchasers of the names and addresses of the Holders to whom the Exchange Offer is made, and the Initial Purchasers shall have the right, subject to applicable securities laws, to contact such Holders and otherwise facilitate the tender of Registrable Securities in the Exchange Offer. The Company shall use its reasonable commercial efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective and to amend and supplement the Prospectus contained therein, in order to permit such Prospectus to be lawfully delivered by all persons subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the 1933 Act for such period of time as such persons must comply with such requirements in order to resell the Exchange Securities; provided, however, that (i) in the case where such prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto must be delivered by a Participating Broker-Dealer, such period shall terminate at the earlier to occur of (i) the expiration of 180 days following the Exchange Offer and (ii) the Expiration Date. The Company shall not be obligated to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective or to permit the use of any Prospectus forming a part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement if (i) the Company determines, in its reasonable judgment, upon advice of counsel that the continued effectiveness and use of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement would (x) require the disclosure of material information which the Company has a bona fide business reason for preserving as confidential or (y) interfere with any financing, acquisition, corporate reorganization or other material transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries; and provided, further, that the failure to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective and usable for offers and sales of Registrable Securities for such reasons shall last no longer than 45 consecutive calendar days or no more than an aggregate of 90 calendar days during any consecutive twelve-month period (whereafter a Registration Default, as 6
hereinafter defined, shall occur) and (ii) the Company promptly thereafter complies with the requirements of Section 3(L) hereof, if applicable; any such period during which the Company is excused from keeping the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective and usable for offers and sales of Registrable Securities is referred to herein as a "Exchange Offer Suspension Period"; an Exchange Offer Suspension Period shall commence on and include the date that the Company gives notice to the Holders that the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is no longer effective or the Prospectus included therein is no longer usable for offers and sales of Registrable Securities as a result of the application of the proviso of the foregoing sentence, stating the reason therefor, and shall end on the earlier to occur of the date on which each seller of Registrable Securities covered by the Exchange Offer Registration Statement either receives the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus or is advised in writing by the Company that use of the Prospectus may be resumed. The Company acknowledges that pursuant to current interpretations by the SEC's staff of Section 5 of the 1933 Act, in the absence of applicable exemption therefrom, (i) each Holder which is a broker-dealer electing to exchange Securities for Exchange Securities (an "Exchanging Dealer"), is required to deliver a prospectus containing information substantially in the form set forth in (a) Annex A hereto, (b) Annex B hereto in the "Exchange Offer Procedures" section and the "Purpose of the Exchange Offer" section, (c) Annex C hereto in the "Plan of Distribution" section of such prospectus in connection with a sale of any such Exchange Securities received by such Exchanging Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer and to include in the Letter of Transmittal delivered pursuant to the Exchange Offer, the information set forth in Annex D hereto and (ii) an Initial Purchaser that elects to sell Exchange Securities acquired in an exchange for Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment, is required to deliver a prospectus containing the information required by Item 507 or Item 508 of Regulation S-K under the 1933 Act, as applicable, in connection with such sale. 2.2 Shelf Registration. In the event that (A) the Company reasonably determines that changes in law, SEC rules or regulations or applicable interpretations thereof by the staff of the SEC do not permit the Company to effect the Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2.1 hereof, (B) for any other reason, the Exchange Offer is not consummated within 315 days following the date of original issuance of the Securities or (C) an Initial Purchaser notifies the Company within 20 Business Days following the consummation of the Exchange Offer that (i) it is not permitted by applicable law, SEC rules or regulations or applicable interpretations thereof by the staff of the SEC to participate in the Exchange Offer, (ii) it may not resell Exchange Securities with the Prospectus included as part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or (iii) it is a broker-dealer and owns Registrable Securities acquired directly from the Company or one of the Company's Affiliates, then in case of each of clauses (A) through (C) the Company shall, at its cost, in lieu of effecting (or, in the case of clause (C), in addition to effecting) the registration of the Exchange Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement: (A) as promptly as practicable, file with the SEC, and thereafter shall use its reasonable commercial efforts to cause to be declared effective no later than 345 days following the date of original issuance of the Securities, a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders from time to 7
time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by the Majority Holders participating in the Shelf Registration and set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement; (B) use its reasonable commercial efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective in order to permit the Prospectus forming a part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period of two years from the date of the original issuance of the Securities (plus the number of days in any Suspension Period), or until all of the Registrable Securities have been sold pursuant thereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective or to permit the use of any Prospectus forming a part of the Shelf Registration Statement if (i) the Company determines, in its reasonable judgment, upon advice of counsel that the continued effectiveness and use of the Shelf Registration Statement would (x) require the disclosure of material information which the Company has a bona fide business reason for preserving as confidential or (y) interfere with any financing, acquisition, corporate reorganization or other material transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries; and provided, further, that the failure to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective and usable for offers and sales of Registrable Securities for such reasons shall last no longer than 45 consecutive calendar days or no more than an aggregate of 90 calendar days during any consecutive twelve-month period (whereafter a Registration Default, as hereinafter defined, shall occur) and (ii) the Company promptly thereafter complies with the requirements of Section 3(L) hereof, if applicable; any such period during which the Company is excused from keeping the Shelf Registration Statement effective and usable for offers and sales of Registrable Securities is referred to herein as a "Suspension Period"; a Suspension Period shall commence on and include the date that the Company gives notice to the Holders that the Shelf Registration Statement is no longer effective or the Prospectus included therein is no longer usable for offers and sales of Registrable Securities as a result of the application of the proviso of the foregoing sentence, stating the reason therefor, and shall end on the earlier to occur of the date on which each seller of Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement either receives the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus or is advised in writing by the Company that use of the Prospectus may be resumed. The Company shall not permit any securities other than Registrable Securities to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement. The Company further agrees, if necessary, to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement, as required by Section 3(B) below, and to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Securities copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC. 2.3 Expenses. The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with the registration pursuant to Section 2.1 or 2.2 hereof. Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement. 2.4 Effectiveness. (A) The Company will be deemed not to have used its reasonable commercial efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration 8
Statement, as the case may be, to become, or to remain, effective during the requisite period if the Company voluntarily takes any action that would, or omits to take any action (other than any action specifically permitted by the penultimate paragraph of Section 2.1 or by Section 2.2(B) hereof) which omission would, result in any such Registration Statement not being declared effective or in the Holders of Registrable Securities covered thereby not being able to exchange or offer and sell such Registrable Securities during that period as and to the extent contemplated hereby, unless such action is required by applicable law. (B) An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof or a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC; provided, however, that if, after it has been declared effective, the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or a Shelf Registration Statement is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, such Registration Statement will be deemed not to have become effective during the period of such interference, until the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement may legally resume. 2.5 Interest. In the event that (A) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not filed with the SEC on or prior to the 180th day following the date of original issuance of the Securities, (B) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not declared effective on or prior to the 270th calendar day following the date of original issuance of the Securities, (C) the Exchange Offer is not consummated or a Shelf Registration Statement is not declared effective, in either case, on or prior to the 315th calendar day following the date of original issuance of the Securities or (D) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement is filed and declared effective but shall thereafter either be withdrawn by the Company or becomes subject to an effective stop order suspending the effectiveness of such registration statement, except as specifically permitted by the penultimate paragraph of Section 2.1 or Section 2.2(B) hereof, in each case without being succeeded within 30 days by an amendment thereto or an additional registration statement filed and declared effective (each such event referred to in clauses (A) through (D) above, a "Registration Default"), the interest rate borne by the Registrable Securities shall be increased ("Additional Interest") by one-fourth of one percent (0.25%) per annum upon the occurrence of each Registration Default, which rate will increase by an additional one-fourth of one percent (0.25%) per annum if such Registration Default has not been cured within 90 days after occurrence thereof and continuing until all Registration Defaults have been cured, provided that the aggregate amount of any such increase in the interest rate on the Registrable Securities shall in no event exceed one-half of one percent (0.50%) per annum; and provided, further, that if the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not declared effective on or prior to the 270th calendar day following the date of original issuance of the Securities and the Company shall request Holders of Securities to provide information required by the applicable rules of the SEC for inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement, then Registrable Securities owned by Holders who do not deliver such information to the Company or who do not provide comments on the Shelf Registration Statement when reasonably requested by the Company will not be entitled to any such increase in the interest rate for any day after the 315th day following the date of original issuance of the Securities. All accrued Additional Interest shall be paid to Holders of Registrable Securities in the same manner and at the same time as 9
regular payments of interest on the Registrable Securities. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults, the accrual of Additional Interest will cease and the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will revert to the original rate. 3. Registration Procedures. In connection with the obligations of the Company with respect to Registration Statements pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 2.2 hereof, the Company shall: (A) prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement, within the relevant time period specified in Section 2, on the appropriate form under the 1933 Act, which form shall (i) be selected by the Company, (ii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the selling Holders thereof and (iii) comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include or incorporate by reference all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein, and use its reasonable commercial efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective in accordance with Section 2 hereof; (B) use reasonable commercial efforts to cause (i) any Registration Statement and any amendment thereto, when it becomes effective, not to contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (ii) subject to the penultimate paragraph of Section 2.1 and Section 2.2(B), any Prospectus forming part of any Registration Statement, and any supplement to such Prospectus (as amended or supplemented from time to time), not to include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; (C) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary under applicable law to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period; and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provision then in force) under the 1933 Act and comply with the provisions of the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to them with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by each Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution reasonably requested by the selling Holders thereof (including sales by any Participating Broker-Dealer); (D) in the case of a Shelf Registration, (i) notify each Holder of Registrable Securities, at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to filing, that a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to the Registrable Securities is being filed and advising such Holders that the distribution of Registrable Securities will be made in accordance with the methods reasonably requested by the Majority Holders participating in the Shelf Registration, (ii) furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities and to each underwriter of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or 10
supplement thereto, and such other documents as such Holder or underwriter may reasonably request, including financial statements and schedules and, if the Holder so requests, all exhibits in order to facilitate the public sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities and (iii) hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Registrable Securities in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, save and except during any Suspension Period; (E) use its reasonable commercial efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities under such state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement and each underwriter of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities shall reasonably request by the time the applicable Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC, and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each such Holder and underwriter to consummate the disposition in each such jurisdiction of such Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 3(E) or (ii) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject; (F) notify promptly each Holder of Registrable Securities under a Shelf Registration or any Participating Broker-Dealer who has notified the Company that it is utilizing the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and, if requested by such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, confirm such advice in writing promptly (i) when a Registration Statement has become effective and when any post-effective amendments and supplements thereto become effective, (ii) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for post-effective amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iv) in the case of a Shelf Registration, if, between the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of the Company contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to the offering cease to be true and correct in all material respects, (v) of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts during the period the Shelf Registration Statement is effective which makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or which requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading, (vi) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities or the Exchange Securities, as the case may be, for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose and (vii) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement would be appropriate; 11
(G) (1) in the case of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (a) include in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a section entitled "Plan of Distribution," which section shall be reasonably acceptable to the Representatives on behalf of the Participating Broker-Dealers, and which shall contain a summary statement of the positions taken or policies made by the staff of the SEC with respect to the potential "underwriter" status of any broker-dealer that holds Registrable Securities acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and that will be the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the 1934 Act) of Exchange Securities to be received by such broker-dealer in the Exchange Offer, including a statement that any such broker-dealer who receives Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer may be deemed a statutory underwriter and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities, (b) furnish to each Participating Broker-Dealer who has delivered to the Company the notice referred to in Section 3(F), without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such Participating Broker-Dealer may reasonably request, (c) hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement thereto, by any Person subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the SEC, including all Participating Broker-Dealers, in connection with the sale or transfer of the Exchange Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto for up to 180 days following the Exchange Offer except during any Exchange Offer Suspension Period, and (d) include in the transmittal letter or similar documentation to be executed by an exchange offeree in order to participate in the Exchange Offer (i) the following provision: "If the exchange offeree is a broker-dealer holding Registrable Securities acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, it will deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of Exchange Securities received in respect of such Registrable Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer," and (ii) a statement to the effect that a broker-dealer by making the acknowledgment described in clause (i) and by delivering a Prospectus in connection with the exchange of Registrable Securities, the broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an underwriter within the meaning of the 1933 Act; and (2) in the case of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company agrees to deliver to any Participating Broker-Dealers upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (a) an opinion of counsel or opinions of counsel substantially in the form attached hereto as Annex E, (b) officers' certificates substantially in the form customarily delivered by the Company in its public offerings of debt securities and (c) a comfort letter or comfort letters in customary form to the extent permitted by Statement on Auditing Standards No. 72 of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (or if such a comfort letter is not permitted, an agreed upon procedures letter in customary form) from the Company's independent certified public accountants (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of any business 12
acquired by the Company for which financial statements are, or are required to be, included in the Registration Statement) at least as broad in scope and coverage as the comfort letter or comfort letters delivered to the Initial Purchasers in connection with the initial sale of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers; (H) (i) in the case of an Exchange Offer, furnish counsel for the Initial Purchasers and (ii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish counsel for the Holders of Registrable Securities, copies of any comment letters received from the SEC or any other request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments or supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information; (I) make every reasonable effort to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement as soon as practicable and provide prompt notice to legal counsel for the Holders of the withdrawal of any such order; (J) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, and each underwriter, if any, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules (without documents incorporated therein by reference and all exhibits thereto, unless requested); (K) in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold to the extent not held with the Depositary through Cede & Co., to remove any restrictive legends, and enable such Registrable Securities to be in such denominations (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) and registered in such names as the selling Holders or the underwriters, if any, may reasonably request at least three Business Days prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities; (L) upon the occurrence of any event or the discovery of any facts, each as contemplated by Sections 3(F)(ii), (iii), (v), (vi) and (vii) hereof and subject to the provisions of the second paragraph immediately following Section 3(U) hereof, as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, use its reasonable commercial efforts to prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Securities or Participating Broker-Dealers, such Prospectus will not contain at the time of such delivery any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or will remain so qualified. At such time as such public disclosure is otherwise made or the Company determines that such disclosure is not necessary, in each case to correct any misstatement of a material fact or to include any omitted material fact, the Company agrees promptly to notify each Holder of such determination and to furnish each Holder such number of copies of the Prospectus as amended or supplemented, as such Holder may reasonably request; 13
(M) obtain a CUSIP number for all Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, not later than the effective date of a Registration Statement, and provide the Trustee with certificates for the Exchange Securities or the Registrable Securities, as the case may be, in a form eligible for deposit with the Depositary; (N) unless the Indenture, as its relates to the Exchange Securities or the Registrable Securities, as the case may be, has already been so qualified, use its reasonable commercial efforts to (i) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the TIA in connection with the registration of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, (ii) cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA and (iii) execute, and use its reasonable commercial efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner; (O) in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into agreements (including underwriting agreements) and take all other customary and appropriate actions in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities and in such connection whether or not an underwriting agreement is entered into and whether or not the registration is an underwritten registration: (i) make such representations and warranties to the Holders of such Registrable Securities and the underwriters, if any, in form, substance and scope as has been customarily made by the Company to underwriters in similar offerings of debt securities of the Company; (ii) obtain opinions of counsel of the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriters, if any, and the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold) addressed to each selling Holder and the underwriters, if any, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in sales of securities or underwritten offerings of the Company; (iii) obtain "cold comfort" letters and updates thereof from the Company's independent certified public accountants (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements are, or are required to be, included in the Registration Statement) addressed to the underwriters, if any, and use reasonable efforts to have such letter addressed to the selling Holders of Registrable Securities (to the extent consistent with Statement on Auditing Standards No. 72 of the American Institute of Certified Public Accounts), such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "cold comfort" letters to underwriters in connection with similar underwritten offerings of the Company; 14
(iv) if an underwriting agreement is entered into, cause the same to set forth indemnification provisions and procedures substantially equivalent to the indemnification provisions and procedures set forth in Section 4 hereof with respect to the underwriters and all other parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section; and (v) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested and as are customarily delivered in similar offerings to the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold and the managing underwriters, if any; the above shall be done at (i) the effectiveness of such Registration Statement (and each post-effective amendment thereto) and (ii) each closing under any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder; (P) in the case of a Shelf Registration or if a Prospectus is required to be delivered by any Participating Broker-Dealer in the case of an Exchange Offer, make available for inspection by representatives of the Holders of the Registrable Securities, any underwriters participating in any disposition pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, any Participating Broker-Dealer and any counsel or accountant retained by any of the foregoing, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company reasonably requested by any such persons, and cause the respective officers, directors, employees and any other agents of the Company to supply all information reasonably requested by any such representative, underwriter, special counsel or accountant in connection with a Registration Statement, and make such representatives of the Company available for discussion of such documents as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers in order to enable such persons to conduct a reasonable investigation within the meaning of Section 11 of the 1933 Act; provided, however, that such persons shall first agree in writing with the Company that any information that is reasonably and in good faith designated by the Company in writing as confidential at the time of delivery of such information shall be kept confidential by such persons, unless (i) disclosure of such information is required by court or administrative order or is necessary to respond to inquiries of regulatory authorities, (ii) disclosure of such information is required by law (including any disclosure requirements pursuant to federal securities laws in connection with the filing of the Shelf Registration Statement or the use of any Prospectus), (iii) such information becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure or failure to safeguard such information by such persons or (iv) such information becomes available to such persons from a source other than the Company and its subsidiaries and such source is not known by such persons to be bound by a confidentiality agreement; and provided, further, that the foregoing inspection and information gathering shall be coordinated by (x) the managing underwriter in connection with any underwritten offering pursuant to a Shelf Registration, (y) the Holder or Holders designated by the participating Majority Holders in connection with any nonunderwritten offering pursuant to a Shelf Registration or (z) the Participating Broker-Dealer holding the largest amount of Registrable Securities in the case of use of a Prospectus included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with one counsel designated by and on behalf of such persons; 15
(Q) (i) in the case of an Exchange Offer Registration Statement, within a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers and to counsel to the Holders of Registrable Securities and make such changes in any such document prior to the filing thereof as the Initial Purchasers or counsel to the Holders of Registrable Securities may reasonably request and, except as otherwise required by applicable law, not file any such document in a form to which the Initial Purchasers on behalf of the Holders of Registrable Securities and counsel to the Holders of Registrable Securities shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy of or to which the Initial Purchasers on behalf of the Holders of Registrable Securities or counsel to the Holders of Registrable Securities shall reasonably object (which objection shall be made within a reasonable period of time), and make the representatives of the Company available for discussion of such documents as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers; and (ii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, a reasonable time prior to filing any Shelf Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Holders of Registrable Securities, to the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for the Holders and to the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, if any, make such changes in any such document prior to the filing thereof as the Initial Purchasers, the counsel to the Holders or the underwriter or underwriters reasonably request and not file any such document in a form to which the Majority Holders, the Initial Purchasers on behalf of the Holders of Registrable Securities, counsel for the Holders of Registrable Securities or any underwriter shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy of or to which the Majority Holders, the Initial Purchasers on behalf of the Holders of Registrable Securities, counsel to the Holders of Registrable Securities or any underwriter shall reasonably object (which objection shall be made within a reasonable period of time), and make the representatives of the Company available for discussion of such document as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders of Registrable Securities, the Initial Purchasers on behalf of such Holders, counsel for the Holders of Registrable Securities or any underwriter; (R) use its reasonable commercial efforts to (a) if the Securities have been rated prior to the initial sale of such Securities, confirm such ratings will apply to the Securities covered by a Registration Statement, or (b) if the Securities were not previously rated, cause the Securities covered by a Registration Statement to be rated with the appropriate rating agencies, if so requested by Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Securities covered by such Registration Statement, or by the managing underwriters, if any. (S) otherwise comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and make available to its security holders, as soon as reasonably practicable, an earnings statement covering at least 12 months which shall satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act and Rule 158 thereunder; 16
(T) cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with the NASD and, in the case of a Shelf Registration, in the performance of any due diligence investigation by any underwriter and its counsel (including any "qualified independent underwriter" that is required to be retained in accordance with the rules and regulations of the NASD); and (U) upon consummation of an Exchange Offer, obtain a customary opinion of counsel to the Company addressed to the Trustee for the benefit of all Holders of Registrable Securities participating in the Exchange Offer, and which includes an opinion substantially to the effect that (i) the Company has duly authorized, executed and delivered the Exchange Securities and the related supplemental indenture and (ii) each of the Exchange Securities and related indenture constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its respective terms (with customary exceptions). In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company may (as a condition to such Holder's participation in the Shelf Registration) require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the proposed distribution by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably require for inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement and request in writing. In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder agrees, and in the case of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, each Participating Broker-Dealer agrees, that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of (a) the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Sections 3(F)(ii), (iii) or (v) hereof or (b) the Company's determination, in its reasonable judgment, upon advice of counsel, that the continued effectiveness and use of the Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus included in the Shelf Registration Statement or the Exchange Offer Registration Statement would (x) require the disclosure of material information, which the Company has a bona fide business reason for preserving as confidential, or (y) interfere with any financing, acquisition, corporate reorganization or other material transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries, such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement or Prospectus until the receipt by such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, of either copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(L) hereof, and, if so directed by the Company, such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealers will deliver to the Company (at its expense) all copies in its possession of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities current at the time of receipt of such notice, or notice in writing from the Company that such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealers may resume disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement or Prospectus. If the Company shall give any such notice described in clause (a) above to suspend the disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement as a result of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Section 3(F)(ii), (iii) and (v) hereof, the Company shall be deemed to have used its reasonable commercial efforts to keep such Registration Statement effective during such Suspension Period provided that the Company shall use its reasonable commercial efforts to file and have declared effective (if an amendment) as soon as practicable an amendment or supplement to such Registration Statement. The Company shall extend the 17
period during which such Registration Statement shall be maintained effective or the Prospectus used pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of the notice described in clauses (a) and (b) above to and including the date when the Holders or Participating Broker-Dealers shall have received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus necessary to resume such dispositions or notification that they may resume such disposition under an existing Prospectus. If any of the Registrable Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the underwriter or underwriters and manager or managers that will manage such offering will be selected by the Majority Holders of such Registrable Securities included in such offering and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company. No Holder of Registrable Securities may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements. 4. Indemnification; Contribution. (A) In the event of a Shelf Registration Statement or in connection with any prospectus delivery pursuant to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement by an Initial Purchaser or Participating Broker-Dealer, the Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Initial Purchasers, each Holder, each Participating Broker-Dealer, each Person who participates as an underwriter (any such Person being an "Underwriter") and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser, Holder, Participating Broker-Dealer or Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act (collectively, the "Section 4 Persons"), against any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses (including the reasonable cost of investigating and defending against any claims therefore and counsel fees incurred in connection therewith as such expenses are incurred), joint or several, which may be based upon either the 1933 Act, or the 1934 Act, or any other statute or at common law, on the ground or alleged ground that any Registration Statement (or any amendment or supplement thereto) pursuant to which Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities were registered under the 1933 Act or any Prospectus included therein (or any amendment or supplement thereto) included or allegedly included an untrue statement of material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading, unless such statement or omission was made in reliance upon, and in conformity with, written information furnished to the Company by any such Section 4 Person specifically for use in the preparation thereof; provided that in no case is the Company to be liable with respect to any claims made against any Section 4 Person unless such Section 4 Person shall have notified the Company in writing within a reasonable time after the summons or other first legal process giving information of the nature of the claim shall have been served upon such Section 4 Person, but failure to notify the Company of any such claim shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have to such Section 4 Person otherwise than on account of the indemnity agreement contained in this paragraph; and provided, further, that the foregoing indemnity with respect to any Prospectus, including any preliminary prospectus or preliminary prospectus supplement, shall not inure to the benefit of any Section 4 Person if a copy of the Prospectus (as amended or 18
supplemented, exclusive of the material incorporated by reference) had not been sent or given by or on behalf of such Section 4 Person to the Person asserting any such losses, claims, damages or liabilities concurrently with or prior to delivery of the written confirmation of the sale of Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, to such Person and the untrue statement or omission of a material fact contained in any such Prospectus was corrected in the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented) if the Company had previously furnished copies thereof to such Section 4 Persons. The Company will be entitled to participate at its own expense in the defense, or, if it so elects, to assume the defense of any suit brought to enforce any such liability, but, if the Company elects to assume the defense, such defense shall be conducted by counsel chosen by it. In the event that the Company elects to assume the defense of any such suit and retains such counsel, each Section 4 Person may retain additional counsel but shall bear the fees and expenses of such counsel unless (i) the Company shall have specifically authorized the retaining of such counsel or (ii) the parties to such suit include the Section 4 Person or Section 4 Persons and such persons have been advised by such counsel that one or more legal defenses may be available to it or them which may not be available to the Company, in which case the Company shall not be entitled to assume the defense of such suit on behalf of such Section 4 Person, notwithstanding its obligation to bear the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel, it being understood, however, that the Company shall not, in connection with any one such suit or proceeding or separate but substantially similar or related actions or proceedings in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys at any time for all such Section 4 Persons, which firm shall be designated in writing by the Initial Purchasers. The Company shall not be liable to indemnify any Person for any settlement of any such claim effected without the Company's prior written consent. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability, which the Company might otherwise have. (B) Each Section 4 Person agrees severally and not jointly to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of the Company's directors, each of the Company's officers who have signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, against any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses (including the reasonable cost of investigating and defending against any claims therefor and counsel fees incurred in connection therewith as such expenses are incurred), joint or several, which may be based upon the 1933 Act, or any other statute or at common law, on the ground or alleged ground that any Registration Statement (or any amendment or supplement thereto) pursuant to which Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities were registered under the 1933 Act or any Prospectus included therein (or any amendment or supplement thereto) included or allegedly included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading, but only insofar as any such statement or omission was made in reliance upon, and in conformity with, written information furnished to the Company by such Section 4 Person specifically for use in the preparation thereof; provided that in no case is such Section 4 Person to be liable with respect to any claims made against the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person unless the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person shall have notified such Section 4 Person in writing within a reasonable time after the summons or other first legal process giving information of the nature of the claim shall 19
have been served upon the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person, but failure to notify such Section 4 Person of any such claim shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have to the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person otherwise than on account of the indemnity agreement contained in this paragraph. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection (B), with respect to any amount due to an indemnified person under this subsection (B), such Section 4 Person shall not be liable for any amount in excess of the amount by which the net proceeds received by such Section 4 Person from the sale of Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement exceeds the amount of damages which such Section 4 Person has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. Such Section 4 Person will be entitled to participate at its own expense in the defense, or, if it so elects, to assume the defense of any suit brought to enforce any such liability, but, if such Section 4 Person elects to assume the defense, such defense shall be conducted by counsel chosen by it. In the event that such Section 4 Person elects to assume the defense of any such suit and retain such counsel, the Company or such director, officer or controlling person, defendant or defendants in the suit, may retain additional counsel but shall bear the fees and expenses of such counsel unless (i) such Section 4 Person shall have specifically authorized the retaining of such counsel or (ii) the parties to such suit include the Company or any such director, officer, trustee or controlling person and such Section 4 Person and the Company or such director, officer, trustee or controlling person have been advised by such counsel that one or more legal defenses may be available to it or them which may not be available to such Section 4 Person, in which case such Section 4 Person shall not be entitled to assume the defense of such suit on behalf of the Company or such director, officer, trustee or controlling person, notwithstanding its obligation to bear the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel, it being understood, however, that such Section 4 Person shall not, in connection with any one such suit or proceeding or separate but substantially similar or related actions or proceedings in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one a separate firm of attorneys at any time for all of the Company and any such director, officer or controlling person, which firm shall be designated in writing by the Company. Such Section 4 Person shall not be liable to indemnify any person for any settlement of any such claim effected without such Section 4 Person's prior written consent. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which such Section 4 Person might otherwise have. (C) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 4 is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsections (A) or (B) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to in subsection (A) or (B) above in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the indemnifying party or parties on the one hand and the indemnified party on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the parties shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company on the one hand or such Holder or such other indemnified party, as the case may be, on the other, and the parties' relative 20
intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The amount paid by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (C) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of this subsection (C). Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection (C), the Holders of the Securities and the Exchange Securities shall not be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the net proceeds received by such Holders from the sale of such securities pursuant to a Registration Statement exceeds the amount of damages which such Holders have otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. The obligations of the Holders of the Securities and Exchange Securities in this subsection (C) to contribute are several in proportion to the net proceeds received from the sale of such securities by such Holder and not joint. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this subsection (C), each person, if any, who controls such indemnified party within the meaning of the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such indemnified party and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company. 5. Miscellaneous. 5.1 Rule 144 and Rule 144A. For so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15 of the 1934 Act, the Company covenants that it will file the reports required to be filed by it under the 1933 Act and Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder. If the Company ceases to be so required to file such reports, the Company covenants that it will upon the request of any Holder of Registrable Securities (A) make publicly available such information as is necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144 under the 1933 Act, (B) deliver such information to a prospective purchaser as is necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144A under the 1933 Act and (C) take such further action that is reasonable in the circumstances, in each case, to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell its Registrable Securities without registration under the 1933 Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (i) Rule 144 under the 1933 Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, (ii) Rule 144A under the 1933 Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time or (iii) any similar rules or regulations hereafter adopted by the SEC. Upon the request of any Holder of Registrable Securities, the Company will deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements. 5.2 No Inconsistent Agreements. The Company has not entered into and the Company will not after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not and will not for the term of this Agreement in any way conflict with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements. 21
5.3 Amendments and Waivers. The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or departure; provided that in the event the Company increases the aggregate principal amount of, and issues additional Securities pursuant to Section 202 of the Supplemental Indenture No. 7 dated November 3, 2003, such additional Securities issued shall be deemed to be included in the definition of Securities hereunder, and any initial purchasers named in any purchase agreement executed in connection with such additional Securities issued shall be deemed to be included in the definition of Initial Purchasers hereunder, and provided further that the Company may amend, modify or supplement the provisions hereof to reflect the increase in the aggregate principal amount of the Securities, including any modification of the Initial Purchasers and any other changes deemed by the Company to be necessary, advisable or appropriate to reflect such increase, without the written consent of the Holders to the extent such amendment, modification or supplement does not have a material adverse effect on the Holders. Without the consent of the Holder of each Security however, no modification may change the provisions relating to the payment of Additional Interest. 5.4 Notices. All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand delivery, registered first-class mail, telex, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (a) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.4, which address initially is the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement with respect to the Initial Purchasers; and (b) if to the Company, initially at the Company's address set forth in the Purchase Agreement, and thereafter at such other address of which notice is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.4. All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; two Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery. Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the person giving the same to the Trustee under the Indenture, at the address specified in such Indenture. 5.5 Successor and Assigns. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; provided that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities, in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and 22
provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Purchase Agreement, and such person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof. 5.6 Third Party Beneficiaries. The Initial Purchasers (even if the Initial Purchasers are not Holders of Registrable Securities) shall be third party beneficiaries to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent they deem such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect their rights or the rights of Holders hereunder. Each Holder of Registrable Securities shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights hereunder. 5.7 Specific Performance. Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, the Company acknowledges that any failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Sections 2.1 through 2.4 hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it would not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Company's obligations under Sections 2.1 through 2.4 hereof. 5.8 Restriction on Resales. Until the expiration of two years after the original issuance of the Securities, the Company will not, and will cause its "affiliates" (as such term is defined in Rule 144(a)(1) under the 1933 Act) not to, resell any Securities which are "restricted securities" (as such term is defined under Rule 144(a)(3) under the 1933 Act) that have been reacquired by any of them and shall immediately upon any purchase of any such Securities submit such Securities to the Trustee for cancellation. 5.9 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed signature page of this Agreement by facsimile or any other rapid transmission device designed to produce a written record of the communication transmitted shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart thereof. 5.10 Headings. The headings in this Agreement are for the convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof. 5.11 GOVERNING LAW. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS THEREOF. 5.12 Severability. In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, 23
the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby. 5.13 Entire Agreement. This Agreement and the Purchase Agreement represent the entire agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supercedes and replaces any and all prior agreements and understandings, whether oral or written, with respect thereto. 24
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written. CENTERPOINT ENERGY RESOURCES CORP. By: /s/ Gary L. Whitlock -------------------------------------------- Name: Gary L. Whitlock Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer CONFIRMED AND ACCEPTED AS OF THE DATE FIRST ABOVE WRITTEN: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC., for itself and as representative of the Initial Purchasers By: /s/ Pamela Kendall --------------------------------------- Name: Title: CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON LLC, for itself and as representative of the Initial Purchasers By: /s/ Bruce MacLennan --------------------------------------- Name: Bruce MacLennan Title: Director 25
ANNEX A Each broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities. The Letter of Transmittal states that by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, a broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the 1933 Act. This Prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a broker-dealer in connection with resales of Exchange Securities received in exchange for Securities where such Securities were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. The Company has agreed that, for a period of 180 days after the expiration of the Exchange Offer (as defined herein), it will make this Prospectus available to any broker-dealer for use in connection with any such resale. See "Plan of Distribution."
ANNEX B Each broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Securities, where such Securities were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities. See "Plan of Distribution." 2
ANNEX C PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION Each broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities. This Prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a broker-dealer in connection with resales of Exchange Securities received in exchange for Securities where such Securities were acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. The Company has agreed that, for a period of 180 days after the expiration of the Exchange Offer, it will make this Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, available to any broker-dealer for use in connection with any such resale. In addition, until ,200 , all dealers effecting transactions in the Exchange Securities may be required to deliver a prospectus.(1) The Company will not receive any proceeds from any sale of Exchange Securities by broker-dealers. Exchange Securities received by broker-dealers for their own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer may be sold from time to time in one or more transactions in the over-the-counter market, in negotiated transactions, through the writing of options on the Exchange Securities or a combination of such methods of resale, at market prices prevailing at the time of resale, at prices related to such prevailing market prices or negotiated prices. Any such resale may be made directly to purchasers or to or through brokers or dealers who may receive compensation in the form of commissions or concessions from any such broker-dealer or the purchasers of any such Exchange Securities. Any broker-dealer that resells Exchange Securities that were received by it for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer and any broker or dealer that participates in a distribution of such Exchange Securities may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the 1933 Act and any profit on any such resale of Exchange Securities and any commission or concessions received by any such persons may be deemed to be underwriting compensation under the 1933 Act. The Letter of Transmittal states that, by acknowledging that it will deliver and by delivering a prospectus, a broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the 1933 Act. For a period of 180 days after the expiration of the Exchange Offer the Company will promptly send additional copies of this Prospectus and any amendment or supplement to this Prospectus to any broker-dealer that requests such documents in the Letter of Transmittal. The Company has agreed to pay all expenses incident to the Exchange Offer (including the expenses of one counsel for the Holders of the Securities) other than commissions or concessions of any brokers or dealers and will indemnify the Holders of the Securities (including any broker-dealers) against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the 1933 Act. - ------------------ (1) This sentence is to be included to the extent required by the General Rules and Regulations of the SEC. In addition, the legend required by Item 502(b) of Regulation S-K will appear on the inside front cover page of the Exchange Offer prospectus below the Table of Contents. 3
ANNEX D [ ]CHECK HERE IF YOU ARE A BROKER-DEALER AND WISH TO RECEIVE 10 ADDITIONAL COPIES OF THE PROSPECTUS AND 10 COPIES OF ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS THERETO. Name: ____________________________________ Address: _________________________________ If the undersigned is not a broker-dealer, the undersigned represents that it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, a distribution of Exchange Securities. If the undersigned is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, it acknowledges that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities; however, by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, the undersigned will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the 1933 Act. 4
ANNEX E FORM OF OPINION OF COUNSEL The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. The Registration Statement has become effective under the 1933 Act, and, to the best of our knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any part thereof has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted and are pending or are threatened by the SEC under the 1933 Act. The Exchange Offer Registration Statement and the Prospectus (except for (A) the financial statements, including the notes and schedules, if any thereto or the auditor's reports on the audited portions thereof, (B) the other accounting, financial and statistical data , and (C) the exhibits thereto, as to which we have not been asked to comment) comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the 1933 Act and the applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the 1933 Act. We have participated in conferences with certain officers and other representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent public accountants of the Company, representatives of the [Initial Purchasers] [Holders] and counsel for the [Initial Purchasers] [Holders], at which the contents of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus and related matters were discussed. Although we have not undertaken to determine independently, and do not assume any responsibility for, the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, we advise you that, on the basis of the foregoing (relying as to materiality to a large extent upon statements and other representations of officers and other representatives of the Company), no facts have come to our attention that lead us to believe that the Registration Statement and any amendment made thereto prior to the date hereof (except for (A) the financial statements, including the notes and schedules, if any thereto or the auditor's reports on the audited portions thereof, (B) the other accounting, financial and statistical data , and (C) the exhibits thereto, as to which we have not been asked to comment), as of the time the Registration Statement became effective or such amendment was filed, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or that the Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto made prior to the date hereof (except for (A) the financial statements, including the notes and schedules, if any thereto or the auditor's reports on the audited portions thereof, (B) the other accounting, financial and statistical data , and (C) the exhibits thereto, as to which we have not been asked to comment), as of the date of the Prospectus or such amendment or supplement contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.

EXHIBIT 99.1 [CENTER POINT(TM) ENERGY LOGO] For more information contact MEDIA: LETICIA LOWE Phone 713-207-7702 INVESTORS: MARIANNE PAULSEN Phone 713-207-6500 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Page 1 of 1 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CENTERPOINT ENERGY SUBSIDIARY ISSUES $160 MILLION OF SENIOR UNSECURED NOTES HOUSTON - NOVEMBER 3, 2003 - CenterPoint Energy, Inc. (NYSE:CNP) today announced that its natural gas distribution, pipelines and gathering operations subsidiary, CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. (CERC), issued $160 million principal amount of senior unsecured notes in a placement with institutions under Rule 144A. The senior unsecured notes have a coupon rate of 5.95 percent and will be due on Jan. 15, 2014. CERC accepted $140 million aggregate principal amount of CERC's 6.375 percent Term Enhanced ReMarketable Securities (TERMS) due in November and $1.25 million as consideration for the notes. CERC retired the TERMS and used the remaining proceeds to finance costs of issuance and for general corporate purposes. The securities have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration under that Act. This news release does not constitute an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offering would be unlawful. ###


