FILE:CNP/CNP-8K-20040303130659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
     The exhibit listed below is furnished pursuant to Item 9 of this Form 8-K.
(c) Exhibits.
99.1    CenterPoint Energy, Inc. slide presentation
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
     A copy of the slide presentation that CenterPoint Energy, Inc. ("CenterPoint Energy") expects will be presented to various members of the financial and investment community from time to time is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
     The slide presentation is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Regulation FD. Accordingly, the slide presentation will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by CenterPoint Energy, Texas Genco Holdings, Inc. ("Texas Genco"), CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric, LLC ("CenterPoint Houston") or CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. ("CERC") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference. The furnishing of the slide presentation is not intended to, and does not, constitute a determination or admission by CenterPoint Energy, Texas Genco, CenterPoint Houston or CERC that the information in the slide presentation is material or complete, or that investors should consider this information before making an investment decision with respect to any security of CenterPoint Energy, Texas Genco, CenterPoint Houston, CERC or any of their affiliates.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
 
     From time to time we make statements concerning our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events or performance and underlying assumptions and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. You can generally identify our forward-looking statements by the words "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "goal," "intend," "may," "objective," "plan," "potential," "predict," "projection," "should," "will," or other similar words.
     We have based our forward-looking statements on our management's beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time the statements are made. We caution you that assumptions, beliefs, expectations, intentions, and projections about future events may and often do vary materially from actual results. Therefore, we cannot assure you that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements.
     Some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements are described under "Risk Factors" beginning on page 62 in Item 5 of Part II of CenterPoint Energy, Inc.'s Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003 and under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Selected Financial Data - Certain Factors Affecting Future Earnings" of CenterPoint Energy, Inc.'s current report on Form 8-K dated November 7, 2003.
     You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*For the partial stock valuation method, market value will equal the average daily closing price on the NYSE for TGN stock for the 30 consecutive trading days chosen by the Texas Public Utility Commission (PUC) out of the last 120 trading days immediately preceding the true-up filing, plus a control premium, if assessed by the PUC, up to a maximum of 10%.
 
 
 
 
To Be Recognized As America's Leading Energy Delivery Company...and More
 
Our Company
Get it Right
Grow
 
 
 
 
 
Low risk, diversified business with large scale
 
 
2003 annualized dividend: $0.40/share
 
 
 
 
CenterPoint Energy, Inc.
 
CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric, LLC
CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp.
 
CenterPoint Energy Transition Bond Company, LLC
 


