FILE:CNP/CNP-8K-20080729163152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
                 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 (d) On July 24, 2008, the Board of Directors of CenterPoint Energy, Inc. (the Company) elected Mr. Michael P. Johnson and Ms. Susan O. Rheney as directors of the Company to serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders, thereby increasing the number of directors serving on the Board from 11 to 13. Mr. Johnson and Ms. Rheney are expected to stand for election by the shareholders at the 2009 annual meeting.  The Board of Directors designated Mr. Johnson to serve on its Compensation and Governance Committees and Ms. Rheney to serve on its Audit and Finance Committees.
 
From 2002 until his retirement in March 2008, Mr. Johnson served as Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of The Williams Companies, Inc., a publicly held natural gas producer, processor and transporter.  He had held executive positions with Williams since 1998.  Mr. Johnson currently serves as a director of Patriot Coal Corporation, Buffalo Wild Wings, Inc. and QuikTrip Corporation.  He also serves on the Oklahoma Advisory Board of Health Care Service Corporation.
 
Since 2001, Ms. Rheney has been a private investor. Since 2002, she has served as a director of Genesis Energy, Inc., the general partner of Genesis Energy, LP, a publicly traded limited partnership focused on the midstream segment of the oil and gas industry in the Gulf Coast region of the United States.  She formerly served as a director of Cenveo, Inc. from 2003 to 2005 and served as chairman of the board from January to August 2005.  She also served as a principal with The Sterling Group, a private financial and investment organization, until 2001.
 
(a) On July 24, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company amended and restated the Companys Amended and Restated Bylaws (the Bylaws) in order to amend Article III, Section 1 to reflect the declassification of the Board of Directors.  Beginning at the 2009 annual meeting of shareholders, all directors will be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the succeeding annual meeting of shareholders.  However, any director elected for a longer term before the 2009 annual meeting of shareholders will hold office for his or her entire term.  In addition, Article III, Section 6 of the Bylaws was amended to reference the Companys Articles of Incorporation (the Articles of Incorporation) in connection with describing how the number of directors is fixed.
 
The above summary is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Companys Amended and Restated Bylaws, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On July 24, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company restated the Articles of Incorporation in order to include all existing amendments to the Articles of Incorporation and replace information regarding the initial directors with information regarding the directors currently serving on the Board of Directors.
 
The above summary is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Companys Restated Articles of Incorporation, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and incorporated herein by reference.  The restated Articles of Incorporation became effective upon filing with the Secretary of State of the State of Texas on July 24, 2008.
 
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The exhibits listed below are filed herewith.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
  .  Shares for the capital stock of the Company may be certificated or uncertificated.  Owners of shares of the capital stock of the Company shall be recorded in the share transfer records of the Company and ownership of such shares shall be evidenced by a certificate or book entry notation in the share transfer records of the Company.  Any certificates representing such shares shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President and either the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and shall be sealed with the seal of the Company, which signatures and seal may be facsimiles. In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon such certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Company with the same effect as if he were such officer at the date of its issuance.
Section 1.
Share Ownership
 
  .  The Board of Directors of the Company may appoint one or more transfer agents or registrars of any class of stock of the Company.  The Company may be its own transfer agent if so appointed by the Board of Directors.  The Company shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any shares of the Company as the owner thereof for all purposes, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to, or interest in, such shares or any rights deriving from such shares, on the part of any other person, including (but without limitation) a purchaser, assignee or transferee, unless and until such other person becomes the holder of record of such shares, whether or not the Company shall have either actual or constructive notice of the interest of such other person.
Section 2.
Shareholders of Record
 
  .  The shares of the capital stock of the Company shall be transferable in the share transfer records of the Company by the holder of record thereof, or his duly authorized attorney or legal representative.  All certificates representing shares surrendered for transfer, properly endorsed, shall be canceled and new certificates for a like number of shares shall be issued therefor.  In the case of lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated certificates representing shares for which the Company has been requested to issue new certificates, new certificates or other evidence of such new shares may be issued upon such conditions as may be required by the Board of Directors or the Secretary for the protection of the Company and any transfer agent or registrar.  Uncertificated shares shall be transferred in the
Section 3.
Transfer of Shares
 
 
-1-
 
share transfer records of the Company upon the written instruction originated by the appropriate person to transfer the shares.
 
  .  For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive a distribution by the Company (other than a distribution involving a purchase or redemption by the Company of any of its own shares) or a share dividend, or in order to make a determination of shareholders for any other proper purpose (other than determining shareholders entitled to consent to action by shareholders proposed to be taken without a meeting of shareholders), the Board of Directors may provide that the share transfer records shall be closed for a stated period of not more than 60 days, and in the case of a meeting of shareholders not less than ten days, immediately preceding the meeting, or it may fix in advance a record date for any such determination of shareholders, such date to be not more than 60 days, and in the case of a meeting of shareholders not less than ten days, prior to the date on which the particular action requiring such determination of shareholders is to be taken.  If the share transfer records are not closed and no record date is fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders, or shareholders entitled to receive a distribution (other than a distribution involving a purchase or redemption by the Company of any of its own shares) or a share dividend, the date on which notice of the meeting is mailed or the date on which the resolution of the Board of Directors declaring such distribution or share dividend is adopted, as the case may be, shall be the record date for such determination of shareholders.  When a determination of shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders has been made as herein provided, such determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof except where the determination has been made through the closing of the share transfer records and the stated period of closing has expired.
Section 4.
Shareholders of Record and Fixing of Record Date
 
 
 
  .  All meetings of shareholders shall be held at the registered office of the Company, in the City of Houston, Texas, or at such other place within or without the State of Texas as may be designated by the Board of Directors or officer calling the meeting.
Section 1.
Place of Meetings
 
  .  The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors or as may otherwise be stated in the notice of the meeting.  Failure to designate a time for the annual meeting or to hold the annual meeting at the designated time shall not work a dissolution of the Company.
Section 2.
Annual Meeting
 
  .  Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Secretary or the Board of Directors.  Special meetings of shareholders shall be called by the President or the Secretary of the Company on the written request of the holders of shares of capital stock of the Company constituting at least the percentage of outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company entitled to vote at such meeting that the Articles of Incorporation (as Section 4 of this Article II defines
Section 3.
Special Meetings
 
 
-2-
 
that term) specify as the minimum percentage necessary to call a special meeting of the shareholders (or in the absence of such specification, the minimum percentage necessary to call a special meeting that the Texas Business Corporation Act, as amended (the TBCA), specifies).  Such request shall (a) state the purpose or purposes of that meeting and the matters proposed to be acted on at that meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Companys books and records, of the shareholder proposing such business, (c) evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Secretary of the Company, of such shareholders status as such and of the number of shares of each class of capital stock of the Company of which such shareholder is the beneficial owner, (d) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such shareholder and any material interest of such shareholder in such business and (e) a representation that such shareholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the special meeting to bring such business before the meeting.  Upon receipt of such request and any related notice required by these Bylaws, the Board of Directors shall set a date for the special meeting, set a record date in accordance with Section 4 of Article I, and shall cause an appropriate officer of the Company to give the notice required under Section 4 of this Article II.  This Section 3 shall be subject to the rights, if any, of holders of any class or series of capital stock of the Company to call special meetings.
 
  .  Written or printed notice of all meetings stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and, in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called (which may include, in the case of any special meeting called at the written request of shareholders pursuant to the provisions of Section 3 of this Article II, any purpose or purposes (in addition to the purpose or purposes stated by the requesting shareholders pursuant to Section 3 of this Article II) as the Board of Directors may determine), shall be delivered not less than ten nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail, by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Secretary or the officer or person calling the meeting to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meetings.  If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail addressed to the shareholder at his address as it appears on the share transfer records of the Company, with postage thereon prepaid.
Section 4.
Notice of Meeting
 
Any notice required to be given to any shareholder, under any provision of the TBCA, the Articles of Incorporation of the Company (as amended from time to time and including each statement respecting any class or series of preferred stock of the Company which has been filed by the Company in accordance with the provisions of Article 2.13 of the TBCA, the Articles of Incorporation) or these Bylaws, need not be given to a shareholder if notice of two consecutive annual meetings and all notices of meetings held during the period between those annual meetings, if any, or all (but in no event less than two) payments (if sent by first class mail) of distributions or interest on securities during a 12-month period have been mailed to that person, addressed at his address as shown on the share transfer records of the Company, and have been returned undeliverable.  Any action or meeting taken or held without notice to such person shall have the same force and effect as if the notice had been duly given.  If such a person delivers to the Company a written notice setting forth his then current address, the requirement that notice be given to that person shall be reinstated.
 
 
-3-
 
  .  The officer or agent having charge of the share transfer records for shares of the Company shall make, at least ten days before each meeting of shareholders, a complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting or any adjournment thereof, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of and the number of shares held by each, which list, for a period of ten days prior to such meeting, shall be kept on file at the registered office of the Company and shall be subject to inspection by any shareholder at any time during usual business hours.  Such list shall also be produced and kept open at the time and place of the meeting and shall be subject to the inspection of any shareholder during the whole time of the meeting.  The original share transfer records shall be evidence as to who are the shareholders entitled to examine such list or to vote at any meeting of shareholders.  Failure to comply with any requirements of this Section 5 shall not affect the validity of any action taken at such meeting.
Section 5.
Voting List
prima facie
 
  .  Except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation or as otherwise provided in the TBCA, each holder of shares of capital stock of the Company entitled to vote shall be entitled to one vote for each share standing in his name on the records of the Company, either in person or by proxy executed in writing by him or by his duly authorized attorney-in-fact.  A proxy shall be revocable unless expressly provided therein to be irrevocable and the proxy is coupled with an interest.  At each election of directors, every holder of shares of the Company entitled to vote shall have the right to vote, in person or by proxy, the number of shares owned by him for as many persons as there are directors to be elected, and for whose election he has a right to vote, but in no event shall he be permitted to cumulate his votes for one or more directors.
Section 6.
Voting; Proxies
 
  .  Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the holders of a majority of shares entitled to vote, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of shareholders, but, if a quorum is not represented, a majority in interest of those represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time.  Except as provided in the next sentence with respect to contested elections of directors, directors to be elected by shareholders shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election of directors at a meeting of shareholders at which a quorum is present.  In a contested election of directors, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election of directors at a meeting of shareholders at which a quorum is present.  For purposes of this Section, (i) an election of directors shall be considered contested if, as of the date that is 14 days in advance of the date the Company files its definitive proxy statement (regardless of whether or not thereafter revised or supplemented) with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected and (ii) a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted for a director must exceed the number of votes cast against that director.  The Board and the Governance Committee shall establish procedures with respect to the resignation from the Board of continuing directors who are not elected.  With respect to each matter other than the election of directors as to which no other voting requirement is specified by law, the Articles of Incorporation or in this Section 7 or in Article VII of these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote on that matter and represented in person or by proxy at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the shareholders.  With respect to a matter submitted to a vote of the shareholders as to which a shareholder approval requirement is applicable under the shareholder approval policy of
Section 7.
Quorum and Vote of Shareholders
 
 
-4-
 
the New York Stock Exchange, Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or any provision of the Internal Revenue Code, in each case for which no higher voting requirement is specified by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote on, and voted for or against, that matter at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the shareholders, provided that approval of such matter shall also be conditioned on any more restrictive requirement of such shareholder approval policy, Rule 16b-3 or Internal Revenue Code provision, as applicable, being satisfied.  With respect to the approval of independent public accountants (if submitted for a vote of the shareholders), the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote on, and voted for or against, that matter at a meeting of shareholders at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the shareholders.
 
  .  The Chairman of the Board, or in his absence or at his direction, the Chief Executive Officer, or in his absence, the President shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders or, if such officers are not present at a meeting, by such other person as the Board of Directors shall designate or if no such person is designated by the Board of Directors, the most senior officer of the Company present at the meeting.  The Secretary of the Company, if present, shall act as secretary of each meeting of shareholders; if he is not present at a meeting, then such person as may be designated by the presiding officer shall act as secretary of the meeting.  Meetings of shareholders shall follow reasonable and fair procedure.  Subject to the foregoing, the conduct of any meeting of shareholders and the determination of procedure and rules shall be within the absolute discretion of the officer presiding at such meeting (the Chairman of the Meeting), and there shall be no appeal from any ruling of the Chairman of the Meeting with respect to procedure or rules.  Accordingly, in any meeting of shareholders or part thereof, the Chairman of the Meeting shall have the sole power to determine appropriate rules or to dispense with theretofore prevailing rules.  Without limiting the foregoing, the following rules shall apply:
Section 8.
Presiding Officer and Conduct of Meetings
 
(a)   If disorder should arise which prevents continuation of the legitimate business of meeting, the Chairman of the Meeting may announce the adjournment of the meeting; and upon so doing, the meeting shall be immediately adjourned.
 
(b)   The Chairman of the Meeting may ask or require that anyone not a bona fide shareholder or proxy leave the meeting.
 
(c)   A resolution or motion proposed by a shareholder shall only be considered for vote of the shareholders if it meets the criteria of Article II, Section 9 (Proper Business - Annual Meeting of Shareholders) or Article II, Section 10 (Proper Business - Special Meeting of Shareholders), as the case may be.  The Chairman of the Meeting may propose any resolution or motion for vote of the shareholders.
 
(d)   The order of business at all meetings of shareholders shall be determined by the Chairman of the Meeting.
 
(e)   The Chairman of the Meeting may impose any reasonable limits with respect to participation in the meeting by shareholders, including, but not limited to, limits on the amount of time taken up by the remarks or questions of any shareholder,
 
 
-5-
 
limits on the number of questions per shareholder and limits as to the subject matter and timing of questions and remarks by shareholders.
 
(f)   Before any meeting of shareholders, the Board of Directors may appoint three persons other than nominees for office to act as inspectors of election at the meeting or its adjournment.  If no inspectors of election are so appointed, the Chairman of the Meeting may, and on the request of any shareholder or a shareholders proxy shall, appoint inspectors of election at the meeting of the shareholders and the number of such inspectors shall be three.  If any person appointed as inspector fails to appear or fails or refuses to act, the Chairman of the Meeting may, and upon the request of any shareholder or a shareholders proxy shall, appoint a person to fill such vacancy.
 
The duties of the inspectors shall be to:
(i)           determine the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, the shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, and the authenticity, validity and effect of proxies and ballots;
 
(ii)           receive votes or ballots;
 
(iii)           hear and determine all challenges and questions in any way arising in connection with the vote;
 
(iv)           count and tabulate all votes;
 
(v)           report to the Board of Directors the results based on the information assembled by the inspectors; and
 
(vi)           do any other acts that may be proper to conduct the election or vote with fairness to all shareholders.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the final certification of the results of the election or other matter acted upon at a meeting of shareholders shall be made by the Board of Directors.
All determinations of the Chairman of the Meeting shall be conclusive unless a matter is determined otherwise upon motion duly adopted by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Company entitled to vote in the election of directors held by shareholders present in person or represented by proxy at such meeting.
 
  .  At any annual meeting of shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall be a proper subject for the meeting and shall have been properly brought before the meeting.  To be properly brought before an annual meeting of shareholders, business (other than business relating to (i) any nomination or removal of directors, which are governed by Article III, Sections 2 and 8, or (ii) any alteration, amendment or repeal of the Bylaws or any adoption of new Bylaws, which is governed by Article VII hereof) must (a) be specified in the notice of such meeting (or any
Section 9.
Proper Business - Annual Meeting of Shareholders
 
 
-6-
 
supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise be properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Meeting or the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (c) otherwise (i) be properly requested to be brought before the meeting by a shareholder of record entitled to vote in the election of directors generally, in compliance with the provisions of this Section 9 and (ii) constitute a proper subject to be brought before such meeting. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting of shareholders, any shareholder who intends to bring any matter (other than a matter relating to (i) any nomination or removal of directors, which are governed by Article III, Sections 2 and 8, or (ii) any alteration, amendment or repeal of the Bylaws or any adoption of new Bylaws, which is governed by Article VII hereof) before an annual meeting of shareholders and is entitled to vote on such matter must deliver written notice of such shareholders intent to bring such matter before the annual meeting of shareholders, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Company.  Such notice must be received by the Secretary not less than 90 days nor more than 180 days prior to the date on which the immediately preceding years annual meeting of shareholders was held; provided, however, that if the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 60 days after the anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than 180 days prior to such annual meeting and not later than the last to occur of the close of business on (i) the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or (ii) the 10th day following the day on which the Company first makes public announcement of the date of such meeting by (A) a mailing to shareholders, (B) a press release or (C) a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 14(a) of the Exchange Act.  In no event shall the public disclosure of an adjournment of an annual meeting of shareholders commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholders notice as described above.
 
To be in proper written form, a shareholders notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting of shareholders (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Companys books and records, of the shareholder proposing such business, (c) evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Secretary of the Company, of such shareholders status as such and of the number of shares of each class of capital stock of the Company of which such shareholder is the beneficial owner, (d) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such shareholder and any material interest of such shareholder in such business and (e) a representation that such shareholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting.  No business shall be conducted at an annual meeting of shareholders except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 9.  Beneficial ownership shall be determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act.  When used in these Bylaws, person has the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 2(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as the context may require.
 
Within 30 days after such shareholder shall have submitted the aforesaid items, the Secretary or the Board of Directors of the Company shall determine whether the proposed business has been properly requested to be brought before the annual meeting of shareholders
 
 
-7-
 
and shall notify such shareholder in writing of its determination.  If such shareholder fails to submit a required item in the form or within the time indicated, or if the Secretary or the Board of Directors of the Company determines that the proposed business otherwise has not been properly requested, then such proposal by such shareholder shall not be voted upon by the shareholders of the Company at such annual meeting of shareholders.  The Chairman of the Meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a proposal made by a shareholder of the Company pursuant to this Section 9 was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective proposal shall be disregarded.
 
Nothing in this Section 9 shall be interpreted or construed to require the inclusion of information about any such proposal in any proxy statement distributed by, at the direction of, or on behalf of the Board of Directors or the Company.
 
  .  At any special meeting of shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been stated in the notice of such meeting or shall otherwise have been properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Meeting or the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof).
Section 10.
Proper Business - Special Meeting of Shareholders
 
 
 
  . (a) The business and affairs of the Company shall be managed by the Board of Directors.
Section 1.
Term and Qualifications
 
Each director elected by the holders of Preferred Stock pursuant to Division A of Article VI of the Articles of Incorporation (or elected by such directors to fill a vacancy) shall serve for a term ending upon the earlier of the election of his successor or the termination at any time of a right of the holders of Preferred Stock to elect members of the Board of Directors.
 
Except as may be required otherwise in accordance with the immediately preceding paragraph, at each annual meeting of shareholders, all directors shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of shareholders and until their successors have been elected and qualified; provided, that any director elected for a longer term before the 2009 annual meeting of shareholders shall hold office for the entire term for which he or she was originally elected.  No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
 
(b) No person shall be eligible to serve as a director of the Company subsequent to the annual meeting of shareholders occurring during the year of such persons seventy-third birthday.
 
No person shall continue to serve as a member of the Board of Directors if the director ceases for any reason to hold the principal employment or position he or she held at the time first elected to the Board of Directors and does not secure a comparable employment or position, as determined in the sole judgment of the Board of Directors, within one year thereof.
 
 
-8-
 
No person who is also an employee of the Company or one of its corporate affiliates shall continue to serve as a member of the Board of Directors after his or her retirement, termination or downward change in status in the Company, as determined in the sole judgment of the Board of Directors.
 
The Board of Directors may waive any qualification set forth above in this Section 1(b) if it determines that the director has special skill, experience or distinction having value to the Company that is not readily available or transferable.  Any such waiver shall be made by a majority of the Board of Directors, excluding the director whose disqualification is being waived.
 
Any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from the disqualification of a director by virtue of the above qualifications may be filled pursuant to the terms of the Articles of Incorporation.
 
The above qualifications and limitations notwithstanding, each director shall serve until his successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, unless he or she shall resign, become disqualified, disabled or shall otherwise be removed.
 
  .  Nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any shareholder (the Nominator) entitled to vote in the election of directors.  Such nominations, other than those made by the Board of Directors, shall be made in writing pursuant to timely notice delivered to or mailed and received by the Secretary of the Company as set forth in this Section 2.  To be timely in connection with an annual meeting of shareholders, a Nominators notice, setting forth the name and address of the person to be nominated, shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company not less than 90 days nor more than 180 days prior to the date on which the immediately preceding years annual meeting of shareholders was held; provided, however, that if the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 60 days after the anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, notice by the Nominator to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than 180 days prior to such annual meeting and not later than the last to occur of the close of business on (i) the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or (ii) the 10th day following the day on which the Company first makes public announcement of the date of such meeting by (A) a mailing to shareholders, (B) a press release or (C) a filing with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) or 14(a) of the Exchange Act.  To be timely in connection with any election of a director at a special meeting of the shareholders, a Nominators notice, setting forth the name of the person to be nominated, shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company not less than 40 days nor more than 60 days prior to the date of such meeting; provided, however, that in the event that less than 47 days notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the special meeting of the shareholders is given or made to the shareholders, the Nominators notice to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the day on which such notice of date of the meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made. At such time, the Nominator shall also submit written evidence, reasonably satisfactory to the Secretary of the Company, that the Nominator is a shareholder of the Company and shall identify in writing (a) the name and address of the Nominator, (b) the number of shares of each class of capital stock of the Company owned beneficially by the Nominator, (c) the name and address of
Section 2.
Nomination of Directors
 
 
-9-
 
each of the persons with whom the Nominator is acting in concert, (d) the number of shares of capital stock beneficially owned by each such person with whom the Nominator is acting in concert, and (e) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the Nominator and each nominee and any other persons with whom the Nominator is acting in concert pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made.  At such time, the Nominator shall also submit in writing (i) the information with respect to each such proposed nominee that would be required to be provided in a proxy statement prepared in accordance with Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act, (ii) a notarized affidavit executed by each such proposed nominee to the effect that, if elected as a member of the Board of Directors, he will serve and that he is eligible for election as a member of the Board of Directors and (iii) any agreements and information with respect to such proposed nominee that are required pursuant to the procedures established by the Board and the Governance Committee relating to majority voting for the election of directors.  Within 30 days (or such shorter time period that may exist prior to the date of the meeting) after the Nominator has submitted the aforesaid items to the Secretary of the Company, the Secretary of the Company shall determine whether the evidence of the Nominators status as a shareholder submitted by the Nominator is reasonably satisfactory and shall notify the Nominator in writing of his determination.  The failure of the Secretary of the Company to find such evidence reasonably satisfactory, or the failure of the Nominator to submit the requisite information in the form or within the time indicated, shall make the person to be nominated ineligible for nomination at the meeting at which such person is proposed to be nominated.  The presiding person at each meeting of shareholders shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.  Beneficial ownership shall be determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act.
 
  .  Meetings of the Board of Directors may be held either within or without the State of Texas, at whatever place is specified by the officer calling the meeting.  Meetings of the Board of Directors may also be held by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other.  Participation in such a meeting by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment shall constitute presence in person at such meeting, except where a director participates in a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.  In the absence of specific designation by the officer calling the meeting, the meetings shall be held at the principal office of the Company.
Section 3.
Place of Meetings and Meetings by Telephone
 
  .  The Board of Directors shall meet each year immediately following the annual meeting of the shareholders for the transaction of such business as may properly be brought before the meeting.  The Board of Directors shall also meet regularly at such other times as shall be designated by the Board of Directors.  No notice of any kind to either existing or newly elected members of the Board of Directors for such annual or regular meetings shall be necessary.
Section 4.
Regular Meetings
 
  .  Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time upon the call of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary of the Company or a majority of the directors then in office.  Notice
Section 5.
Special Meetings
 
 
-10-
 
shall be sent by mail, facsimile or telegram to the last known address of the director at least two days before the meeting, or oral notice may be substituted for such written notice if received not later than the day preceding such meeting.  Notice of the time, place and purpose of such meeting may be waived in writing before or after such meeting, and shall be equivalent to the giving of notice.  Attendance of a director at such meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice thereof, except where he attends for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.  Except as otherwise provided by these Bylaws, neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting.
 
  .  Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a majority of the number of directors fixed in the manner provided in the Articles of Incorporation and these Bylaws, as from time to time amended, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors.  Any regular or special directors meeting may be adjourned from time to time by those present, whether a quorum is present or not.
Section 6.
Quorum and Voting
 
  .  Directors shall receive such compensation for their services as shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
Section 7.
Compensation
 
  .  No proposal by a shareholder to remove a director of the Company, regardless of whether such director was elected by holders of outstanding shares of Preferred Stock (or elected by the directors to fill a vacancy), shall be voted upon at a meeting of the shareholders unless such shareholder shall have delivered or mailed in a timely manner (as set forth in this Section 8) and in writing to the Secretary of the Company (a) notice of such proposal, (b) a statement of the grounds, if any, on which such director is proposed to be removed, (c) evidence, reasonably satisfactory to the Secretary of the Company, of such shareholders status as such and of the number of shares of each class of the capital stock of the Company beneficially owned by such shareholder, (d) a list of the names and addresses of other beneficial owners of shares of the capital stock of the Company, if any, with whom such shareholder is acting in concert, and of the number of shares of each class of the capital stock of the Company beneficially owned by each such beneficial owner, and (e) an opinion of counsel, which counsel and the form and substance of which opinion shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Board of Directors of the Company (excluding the director proposed to be removed), to the effect that, if adopted at a duly called special or annual meeting of the shareholders of the Company by the required vote as set forth in the Articles of Incorporation, such removal would not be in conflict with the laws of the State of Texas, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws.  To be timely in connection with an annual meeting of shareholders, a shareholders notice and other aforesaid items shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company not less than 90 days nor more than 180 days prior to the date on which the immediately preceding years annual meeting of shareholders was held; provided, however, that if the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 60 days after the anniversary of the preceding years annual meeting, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than 180 days prior to such annual
Section 8.
Removal
 
 
-11-
 
meeting and not later than the last to occur of the close of business on (i) the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or (ii) the 10th day following the day on which the Company first makes public announcement of the date of such meeting by (A) a mailing to shareholders, (B) a press release or (C) a filing with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) or 14(a) of the Exchange Act.  To be timely in connection with the removal of any director at a special meeting of the shareholders, a shareholders notice and other aforesaid items shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company not less than 40 days nor more than 60 days prior to the date of such meeting; provided, however, that in the event that less than 47 days notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the special meeting of shareholders is given or made to the shareholders, the shareholders notice and other aforesaid items to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the day on which such notice of date of the meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made.  Within 30 days (or such shorter period that may exist prior to the date of the meeting) after such shareholder shall have delivered the aforesaid items to the Secretary of the Company, the Secretary and the Board of Directors of the Company shall respectively determine whether the items to be ruled upon by them are reasonably satisfactory and shall notify such shareholder in writing of their respective determinations.  If such shareholder fails to submit a required item in the form or within the time indicated, or if the Secretary or the Board of Directors of the Company determines that the items to be ruled upon by them are not reasonably satisfactory, then such proposal by such shareholder may not be voted upon by the shareholders of the Company at such meeting of shareholders.  The presiding person at each meeting of shareholders shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a proposal to remove a director of the Company was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective proposal shall be disregarded.  Beneficial ownership shall be determined as specified in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act.
 
  .  The Board of Directors, by resolution or resolutions adopted by a majority of the full Board of Directors, may designate one or more members of the Board of Directors to constitute an Executive Committee, and one or more other committees, which shall in each case be comprised of such number of directors as the Board of Directors may determine from time to time.  Subject to such restrictions as may be contained in the Articles of Incorporation or that may be imposed by the TBCA, any such committee shall have and may exercise such powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Company as the Board of Directors may determine by resolution and specify in the respective resolutions appointing them, or as permitted by applicable law, including, without limitation, the power and authority to (a) authorize a distribution, (b) authorize the issuance of shares of the Company and (c) exercise the authority of the Board of Directors vested in it pursuant to Article 2.13 of the TBCA or such successor statute as may be in effect from time to time.  Each duly-authorized action taken with respect to a given matter by any such duly-appointed committee of the Board of Directors shall have the same force and effect as the action of the full Board of Directors and shall constitute for all purposes the action of the full Board of Directors with respect to such matter.
Section 9.
Executive and Other Committees
 
The designation of any such committee and the delegation thereto of authority shall not operate to relieve the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, of any responsibility imposed upon it or him by law, nor shall such committee function where action of the Board of Directors
 
 
-12-
 
cannot be delegated to a committee thereof under applicable law.  The Board of Directors shall have the power at any time to change the membership of any such committee and to fill vacancies in it.  A majority of the members of any such committee shall constitute a quorum.  The Board of Directors shall name a chairman at the time it designates members to a committee.  Each such committee shall appoint such subcommittees and assistants as it may deem necessary.  Except as otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, meetings of any committee shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4 and 6 of this Article III as the same shall from time to time be amended.  Any member of any such committee elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed by the Board of Directors whenever in its judgment the best interests of the Company will be served thereby, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed.  Election or appointment of a member of a committee shall not of itself create contract rights.
 
 
 
  .  The officers of the Company shall consist of a President and a Secretary and such other officers and agents as the Board of Directors may from time to time elect or appoint.  The Board of Directors may delegate to the Chairman of the Board and/or the Chief Executive Officer the authority to appoint and remove additional officers and agents of the Company.  Each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have been duly elected or appointed and shall qualify or until his death or until he shall resign or shall have been removed in the manner hereinafter provided.  Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Section 1.
Officers
 
  .  Whenever any vacancies shall occur in any office by death, resignation, increase in the number of offices of the Company, or otherwise, the officer so elected shall hold office until his successor is chosen and qualified.  Any officer of the Company may be removed at any time by the Board of Directors, whenever in its judgment the best interests of the Company will be served thereby, or, except in the case of an officer appointed by the Board of Directors, by the Chairman of the Board and/or the Chief Executive Officer on whom the power of removal is conferred by the Board of Directors, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed.  Election or appointment of an officer or agent shall not of itself create contract rights.
Section 2.
Vacancies; Removal
 
  .  The officers of the Company shall have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their offices as well as such powers and duties as from time to time shall be conferred by the Board of Directors.
Section 3.
Powers and Duties of Officers
 
 
 
  .  The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless the Indemnitee (as this and all other capitalized words are defined in this Article V or in Article 2.02-1 of the TBCA), to the fullest extent permitted, or not prohibited, by the TBCA or other applicable law as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but in the case of any such amendment, with respect to Matters occurring before such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment
Section 1.
General
 
 
-13-
 
permits the Company to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Company to provide prior to such amendment).  The provisions set forth below in this Article V are provided as means of furtherance and implementation of, and not in limitation on, the obligation expressed in this Section 1.
 
  .  The rights of the Indemnitee provided under Section 1 of this Article V shall include, but not be limited to, the right to be indemnified and to have Expenses advanced (including the payment of expenses before final disposition of a Proceeding) in all Proceedings to the fullest extent permitted, or not prohibited, by the TBCA or other applicable law.  In addition, to the extent the Indemnitee is, by reason of his Corporate Status, a witness or otherwise participates in any Proceeding at a time when he is not named a defendant or respondent in the Proceeding, he shall be indemnified against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection therewith.  The Indemnitee shall be advanced Expenses, within ten days after any request for such advancement, to the fullest extent permitted, or not prohibited, by Article 2.02-1 of the TBCA; provided that the Indemnitee has provided to the Company all affirmations, acknowledgments, representations and undertakings that may be required of the Indemnitee by Article 2.02-1 of the TBCA.
Section 2.
Advancement or Reimbursement of Expenses
 
  .  To obtain indemnification, the Indemnitee shall submit to the Secretary of the Company a written claim or request.  Such written claim or request shall contain sufficient information to reasonably inform the Company about the nature and extent of the indemnification or advance sought by the Indemnitee.  The Secretary of the Company shall promptly advise the Board of Directors of such request.
Section 3.
Request for Indemnification
 
  .  Upon written request to the Company by an Indemnitee for indemnification pursuant to these Bylaws, a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to an Indemnitees entitlement thereto shall be made in accordance with Article 2.02-1 of the TBCA; provided, however, that notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Change in Control shall have occurred, such determination shall be made by a Special Legal Counsel selected by the Board of Directors, unless the Indemnitee shall request that such determination be made in accordance with Article 2.02-1F (1) or (2).  If entitlement to indemnification is to be determined by a Special Legal Counsel, the Company shall furnish notice to the Indemnitee within ten days after receipt of the claim of or request for indemnification, specifying the identity and address of the Special Legal Counsel.  The Indemnitee may, within fourteen days after receipt of such written notice of selection, deliver to the Company a written objection to such selection.  Such objection may be asserted only on the ground that the Special Legal Counsel selected does not meet the requirements of a Special Legal Counsel as defined in Section 10 of this Article V, and the objection shall set forth with particularity the factual basis for that assertion.  If there is an objection to the selection of the Special Legal Counsel, either the Company or the Indemnitee may petition the Court for a determination that the objection is without a reasonable basis and/or for the appointment of a Special Legal Counsel selected by the Court.  The Company shall pay any and all reasonable fees and expenses of the Special Legal Counsel incurred in connection with any such determination.  If a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Indemnitee shall be presumed (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article) to be entitled to indemnification under this Article V upon submission of a request to the Company for indemnification, and thereafter
Section 4.
Determination of Request
 
 
-14-
 
the Company shall have the burden of proof in overcoming that presumption in reaching a determination contrary to that presumption.  The presumption shall be used by the Special Legal Counsel, or such other person or persons determining entitlement to indemnification, as a basis for a determination of entitlement to indemnification unless the Company provides information sufficient to overcome such presumption by clear and convincing evidence or the investigation, review and analysis of the Special Legal Counsel or such other person or persons convinces him or them by clear and convincing evidence that the presumption should not apply.
 
  .  The termination of any Proceeding or of any Matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article V) of itself adversely affect the right of the Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that (a) the Indemnitee did not conduct himself in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed, in the case of conduct in his official capacity as a director of the Company, to be in the best interests of the Company, or, in all other cases, that at least his conduct was not opposed to the Companys best interests, or (b) with respect to any criminal Proceeding, that the Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
Section 5.
Effect of Certain Proceedings
nolo contendere
 
  .  In the event that an Indemnitee, pursuant to this Article V, seeks a judicial adjudication to enforce his rights under, or to recover damages for breach of, rights created under or pursuant to this Article V, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to recover from the Company, and shall be indemnified by the Company against, any and all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him in such judicial adjudication but only if he prevails therein.  If it shall be determined in said judicial adjudication that the Indemnitee is entitled to receive part but not all of the indemnification or advancement of Expenses sought, the Expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such judicial adjudication shall be reasonably prorated in good faith by counsel for the Indemnitee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification under this Section 6 regardless of whether indemnitee ultimately prevails in such judicial adjudication.
Section 6.
Expenses of Enforcement of Article
 
  .  The rights of indemnification and to receive advancement of Expenses as provided by this Article V shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which the Indemnitee may at any time be entitled under applicable law, the Articles of Incorporation, these Bylaws, agreement, insurance, arrangement, a vote of shareholders or a resolution of directors, or otherwise.  No amendment, alteration or repeal of this Article V or any provision thereof shall be effective as to any Indemnitee for acts, events and circumstances that occurred, in whole or in part, before such amendment, alteration or repeal.  The provisions of this Article V shall continue as to an Indemnitee whose Corporate Status has ceased and shall inure to the benefit of his heirs, executors and administrators.
Section 7.
Nonexclusive Rights
 
  .  If any provision or provisions of this Article V shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and, to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article V shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
Section 8.
Invalidity
 
 
-15-
 
  .  The Company may, by adoption of a resolution of the Board of Directors, indemnify and advance expenses to any other person who is, or is threatened to be made, a witness in or a party to any Proceeding as described in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article V by reason of that person's Corporate Status to the same extent and subject to the same conditions (or to a lesser extent and/or with other conditions as the Board of Directors may determine) under which it may indemnify and advance expenses to an Indemnitee under this Article V.
Section 9.
Indemnification of Other Persons
 
  .  For purposes of this Article V:
Section 10.
Definitions
 
Change of Control means a change in control of the Company occurring after the date of adoption of these Bylaws in any of the following circumstances:  (a) there shall have occurred an event required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A (or in response to any similar item on any similar schedule or form) promulgated under the Exchange Act, whether or not the Company is then subject to such reporting requirement; (b) any person (as such term is used in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or a corporation or other entity owned directly or indirectly by the shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, shall have become the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Companys then outstanding voting securities without prior approval of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Directors in office immediately prior to such person attaining such percentage interest; (c) the Company is a party to a merger, consolidation, share exchange, sale of assets or other reorganization, or a proxy contest, as a consequence of which members of the Board of Directors in office immediately prior to such transaction or event constitute less than a majority of the Board of Directors thereafter; (d) during any fifteen-month period, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors (including for this purpose any new director whose election or nomination for election by the Companys shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors.
 
Corporate Status describes the status of a person as a director, officer, partner, venturer, proprietor, trustee, employee (including an employee acting in his Designated Professional Capacity), or agent or similar functionary of the Company or of any other foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise which such person is or was serving in such capacity at the request of the Company.  The Company hereby acknowledges that unless and until the Company provides the Indemnitee with written notice to the contrary, the Indemnitees service as a director, officer, partner, venturer, proprietor, trustee, employee, agent or similar functionary of an Affiliate of the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be at the Companys request.  An Affiliate of the Company shall be deemed to be (a) any foreign or domestic corporation in which the Company owns or controls, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the shares entitled to be voted in
 
 
-16-
 
the election of directors of such corporation; (b) any foreign or domestic partnership, joint venture, proprietorship or other enterprise in which the Company owns or controls, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the revenue interests in such partnership, joint venture, proprietorship or other enterprise; or (c) any trust or employee benefit plan the beneficiaries of which include the Company, any Affiliate of the Company as defined in the foregoing clauses (a) and (b) or any of the directors, officers, partners, venturers, proprietors, employees, agents or similar functionaries of the Company or of such Affiliates of the Company.
 
Expenses shall include all reasonable attorneys fees, retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, witness fees, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees, and all other disbursements or expenses of the types customarily incurred in connection with prosecuting, defending, preparing to prosecute or defend, investigating, or being or preparing to be a witness in a Proceeding.
 
Indemnitee  includes any officer or director of the Company who is, or is threatened to be made, a witness in or a party to any Proceeding as described in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article V by reason of his Corporate Status.
 
Matter  is a claim, a material issue, or a substantial request for relief.
 
Proceeding  includes any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, arbitration, alternate dispute resolution proceeding, investigation, administrative hearing and any other proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or other, any appeal in such action, suit, arbitration, proceeding or hearing, or any inquiry or investigation, whether conducted by or on behalf of the Company, a subsidiary of the Company or any other party, formal or informal, that the Indemnitee in good faith believes might lead to the institution of any such action, suit, arbitration, proceeding, investigation or hearing, except one initiated by an Indemnitee pursuant to Section 6 of this Article V.
 
Special Legal Counsel means a law firm, or member of a law firm, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither presently is, nor in the five years previous to his selection or appointment has been, retained to represent:  (a) the Company or the Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party; (b) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder; or (c) the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Companys then outstanding voting securities.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term Special Legal Counsel shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or the Indemnitee in an action to determine the Indemnitees rights to indemnification under these Bylaws.
 
For the purposes of this Article V, an employee acting in his Designated Professional Capacity shall include, but not be limited to, a physician, nurse, psychologist or therapist, registered surveyor, registered engineer, registered architect,
 
 
-17-
 
attorney, certified public accountant or other person who renders such professional services within the course and scope of his employment, who is licensed by appropriate regulatory authorities to practice such profession and who, while acting in the course of such employment, committed or is alleged to have committed any negligent acts, errors or omissions in rendering such professional services at the request of the Company or pursuant to his employment (including, without limitation, rendering written or oral opinions to third parties).
 
  .  Any communication required or permitted to the Company under this Article V shall be addressed to the Secretary of the Company and any such communication to the Indemnitee shall be addressed to the Indemnitees home address unless he specifies otherwise and shall be personally delivered or delivered by overnight mail or courier delivery.
Section 11.
Notice
 
  .  The Company may procure or maintain insurance or other similar arrangements, at its expense, to protect itself and any Indemnitee against any expense, liability or loss asserted against or incurred by such person, incurred by him in such a capacity or arising out of his Corporate Status as such a person, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense or liability.  In considering the cost and availability of such insurance, the Company (through the exercise of the business judgment of its directors and officers) may, from time to time, purchase insurance which provides for any and all of (a) deductibles, (b) limits on payments required to be made by the insurer, or (c) coverage which may not be as comprehensive as that previously included in insurance purchased by the Company.  The purchase of insurance with deductibles, limits on payments and coverage exclusions will be deemed to be in the best interest of the Company but may not be in the best interest of certain of the persons covered thereby.  As to the Company, purchasing insurance with deductibles, limits on payments, and coverage exclusions is similar to the Companys practice of self-insurance in other areas.  In order to protect the Indemnitees who would otherwise be more fully or entirely covered under such policies, the Company shall indemnify and hold each of them harmless as provided in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article V, without regard to whether the Company would otherwise be entitled to indemnify such officer or director under the other provisions of this Article, or under any law, agreement, vote of shareholders or directors or other arrangement, to the extent (i) of such deductibles, (ii) of amounts exceeding payments required to be made by an insurer or (iii) that prior policies of officers and directors liability insurance held by the Company or its predecessors would have provided for payment to such officer or director.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provision of this Section 12, no Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification for the results of such persons conduct that is intentionally adverse to the interests of the Company.  This Section 12 is authorized by Section 2.02-1(R) of the TBCA as in effect on August 31, 2001, and further is intended to establish an arrangement of self-insurance pursuant to that section.
Section 12.
Insurance and Self-Insurance Arrangements
 
 
 
  .  The principal office of the Company shall be located in Houston, Texas, unless and until changed by resolution of the Board of Directors.  The Company may also
Section 1.
Offices
 
 
-18-
 
have offices at such other places as the Board of Directors may designate from time to time, or as the business of the Company may require.  The principal office and registered office may be, but need not be, the same.
 
  .  Any director or officer may resign at any time.  Any such resignation shall be made in writing and shall take effect on the date of its receipt by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary, unless the resignation prescribes a later effective date or states that the resignation takes effect on the occurrence of a future event.  If the resignation is to take effect on a later date or on the occurrence of a future event, the resignation takes effect on the later date or when the event occurs.  The acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective, unless expressly so provided in the resignation.  A resignation is irrevocable when it takes effect.  A resignation is revocable before it takes effect unless it expressly states that it is irrevocable.
Section 2.
Resignations
 
  .  The Corporate Seal shall be circular in form, shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Company and may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or otherwise reproduced.
Section 3.
Seal
 
  .  If one or more of the provisions of these Bylaws shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision hereof and these Bylaws shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision or provisions had never been contained herein.
Section 4.
Separability
 
 
 
  .  The Board of Directors shall have the power to alter, amend or repeal the Bylaws or adopt new Bylaws.  Any alteration, amendment or repeal of the Bylaws or adoption of new Bylaws shall require: (1) the affirmative vote of at least 80% of all directors then in office at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or (2) the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of all the shares of the corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.
Section 1.
Vote Requirements
 
  .  No proposal by a shareholder made pursuant to Article VIII of the Articles of Incorporation and Section 1 of this Article VII may be voted upon at an annual meeting of shareholders unless such shareholder shall have delivered or mailed in a timely manner (as set forth in this Section 2) and in writing to the Secretary of the Company (a) notice of such proposal and the text of the proposed alteration, amendment or repeal, (b) evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Secretary of the Company, of such shareholders status as such and of the number of shares of each class of capital stock of the Company of which such shareholder is the beneficial owner, (c) a list of the names and addresses of other beneficial owners of shares of the capital stock of the Company, if any, with whom such shareholder is acting in concert, and the number of shares of each class of capital stock of the Company beneficially owned by each such beneficial owner and (d) an opinion of counsel, which counsel and the form and substance of which opinion shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Board of Directors of the Company, to the effect that the Bylaws (if any) resulting from the adoption of
Section 2.
Shareholder Proposals
 
 
-19-
 
such proposal would not be in conflict with the Articles of Incorporation or the laws of the State of Texas.  To be timely in connection with an annual meeting of shareholders, a shareholders notice and other aforesaid items shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Company not less than 90 days nor more than 180 days prior to the date on which the immediately preceding years annual meeting of shareholders was held; provided, however, that if the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 60 days after the anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than 180 days prior to such annual meeting and not later than the last to occur of the close of business on (i) the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or (ii) the 10th day following the day on which the Company first makes public announcement of the date of such meeting by (A) a mailing to shareholders, (B) a press release or (C) a filing with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) or 14(a) of the Exchange Act.  In no event shall the public disclosure of an adjournment of an annual meeting of shareholders commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholders notice as described above.
 
Within 30 days after such shareholder shall have submitted the aforesaid items, the Secretary or the Board of Directors of the Company shall determine whether the items to be ruled upon by them are reasonably satisfactory and shall notify such shareholder in writing of its determination.  If such shareholder fails to submit a required item in the form or within the time indicated, or if the Secretary or the Board of Directors of the Company determines that the items to be ruled upon by them are not reasonably satisfactory, then such proposal by such shareholder may not be voted upon by the shareholders of the Company at such annual meeting of shareholders.  The Chairman of the Meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a proposal by a shareholder of the Company made pursuant to Article VIII of the Articles of Incorporation and Section 1 of this Article VII was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective proposal shall be disregarded.  Beneficial ownership shall be determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act.
 
Nothing in this Section 2 shall be interpreted or construed to require the inclusion of information about any such proposal in any proxy statement distributed by, at the direction of, or on behalf of the Board of Directors or the Company.
 
No proposal by a shareholder made pursuant to Article VIII of the Articles of Incorporation and Section 1 of this Article VII shall be voted upon at a special meeting of shareholders unless such proposal has been stated in the notice of such special meeting or shall otherwise have been properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Meeting or the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof).
 
 
-20-
 

Exhibit 3.2
CenterPoint Energy, Inc., a Texas corporation (the Company), pursuant to the provisions of Article 4.07 of the Texas Business Corporation Act, hereby adopts these Restated Articles of Incorporation, which accurately copy the provisions of the existing Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company and all amendments thereto that are in effect on the date hereof (the Articles of Incorporation) and contain no other change in any provisions thereof; provided that the number of directors serving on the board of directors of the Company on the date hereof and their names and addresses have been inserted in lieu of similar information concerning the initial board of directors.
 
 
The name of this corporation is CenterPoint Energy, Inc.
 
 
The purpose or purposes for which the corporation is incorporated is the transaction of all lawful business for which corporations may be incorporated under the Texas Business Corporation Act.
 
 
The street address of the corporations registered office is c/o CT Corporation System, 350 N. St. Paul Street, Dallas, Texas 75201 and the name of its registered agent at such address is CT Corporation System.
 
 
The period of duration of the corporation is perpetual.
 
 
(a)             The number of directors of the corporation shall be such number as determined from time to time by a majority of the board of directors.  Except as may otherwise be provided pursuant to the provisions established by the Board of Directors with respect to any series of Preferred Stock pursuant to Division A of Article VI of these Articles of Incorporation, at each annual meeting of shareholders, all directors shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of
Number, Election and Terms of Directors.
 
 
-1-
 
shareholders and until their successors have been elected and qualified; provided, that any director elected for a longer term before the 2009 annual meeting of shareholders shall hold office for the entire term for which he or she was originally elected.
 
The number of directors presently constituting the board of directors is thirteen, and the name and address of each person who is serving as a director on the date hereof is:
 
 
-2-
 
(b)             No director of the corporation shall be removed from his office as a director by vote or other action of the shareholders or otherwise except for cause, as defined below, and then only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of voting power of all outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors, voting together as a single class at a meeting of shareholders expressly called for that purpose.
Removal of Directors.
 
Except as may otherwise be provided by law, cause for removal of a director shall be construed to exist only if:  (a) the director whose removal is proposed has been convicted, or where a director is granted immunity to testify where another has been convicted, of a felony by a court of competent jurisdiction and such conviction is no longer subject to direct appeal; (b) such director has been found by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of all directors then in office at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors called for that purpose or by a court of competent jurisdiction to have been negligent or guilty of misconduct in the performance of his duties to the corporation in a matter of substantial importance to the corporation; or (c) such director has been adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction to be mentally incompetent, which mental incompetency directly affects his ability as a director of the corporation.
 
Notwithstanding the first paragraph of this Section (b), whenever holders of outstanding shares of Preferred Stock are entitled to elect members of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions established by the Board of Directors with respect to any series of Preferred Stock pursuant to Division A of Article VI of these Articles of Incorporation of the corporation, any director of the corporation so elected may be removed in accordance with the provisions established by the Board of Directors with respect to such Preferred Stock.
 
(c)             Newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office for a term of office continuing only until the next election of one or more directors by the shareholders entitled to vote thereon, or may be filled by election at an annual or special meeting of the shareholders called for that purpose; provided, however, that the Board of Directors shall not fill more than two such directorships during the period between two successive annual meetings of shareholders.  Any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, or may be filled by election at an annual or special meeting of the shareholders called for that purpose.  Any director elected to fill any such vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the director whose departure from the Board of Directors created the vacancy and until such newly elected directors successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.
Newly Created Directorships and Vacancies.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph of this Section (c), whenever holders of outstanding shares of Preferred Stock are entitled to elect members of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions established by the Board of Directors with respect to any series of Preferred Stock pursuant to Division A of Article VI of these Articles of Incorporation, any vacancy or vacancies resulting by reason of the death, resignation, disqualification or removal of any director or directors or any increase in the number of directors shall be filled in accordance with such provisions.
 
 
-3-
 
(d)             In addition to any other affirmative vote required by applicable law, this Article V may not be amended, modified or repealed except by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the voting power of all outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation generally entitled to vote in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.
Amendment of Article V.
 
 
The number of shares of the total authorized capital stock of the corporation is 1,020,000,000 shares, of which 20,000,000 shares are classified as Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, and the balance of 1,000,000,000 shares are classified as Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share.
 
The descriptions of the different classes of capital stock of the corporation and the preferences, designations, relative rights, privileges and powers, and the restrictions, limitations and qualifications thereof, of said classes of stock are as follows:
 
 
The shares of Preferred Stock may be divided into and issued in one or more series, the relative rights, powers and preferences of which series may vary in any and all respects.  The Board of Directors or a duly appointed committee of the Board of Directors is expressly vested with the authority to fix, by resolution or resolutions adopted prior to and providing for the issuance of any shares of each particular series of Preferred Stock and incorporate in a statement of resolutions filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Texas, the designations, powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of each series of Preferred Stock, to the extent not provided for in these Articles of Incorporation, and with the authority to increase or decrease the number of shares within each such series; , that the Board of Directors may not decrease the number of shares within a series of Preferred Stock below the number of shares within such series that is then issued.  The authority of the Board of Directors and any duly appointed committee thereof with respect to fixing the designations, powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions of each such series of Preferred Stock shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:
provided, however
 
(1)           the distinctive designation and number of shares of that series;
 
(2)           the rate of dividends (or the method of calculation thereof) payable with respect to shares of that series, the dates, terms and other conditions upon which such dividends shall be payable, and the relative rights of priority of such dividends to dividends payable on any other class or series of capital stock of the corporation;
 
(3)           the nature of the dividend payable with respect to shares of that series as cumulative, noncumulative or partially cumulative, and if cumulative or partially cumulative, from which date or dates and under what circumstances;
 
 
-4-
 
(4)           whether shares of that series shall be subject to redemption, and, if made subject to redemption, the times, prices, rates, adjustments and other terms and conditions of such redemption (including the manner of selecting shares of that series for redemption if fewer than all shares of such series are to be redeemed);
 
(5)           the rights of the holders of shares of that series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation (which rights may be different if such action is voluntary than if it is involuntary), including the relative rights of priority in such event as to the rights of the holders of any other class or series of capital stock of the corporation;
 
(6)           the terms, amounts and other conditions of any sinking or similar purchase or other fund provided for the purchase or redemption of shares of that series;
 
(7)           whether shares of that series shall be convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock or other securities of the corporation or of any other corporation or entity, and, if provision be made for conversion or exchange, the times, prices, rates, adjustments, and other terms and conditions of such conversion or exchange;
 
(8)           the extent, if any, to which the holders of shares of that series shall be entitled (in addition to any voting rights provided by law) to vote as a class or otherwise with respect to the election of directors or otherwise;
 
(9)           the restrictions and conditions, if any, upon the issue or reissue of any additional Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with or prior to shares of that series as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up;
 
(10)           any other repurchase obligations of the corporation, subject to any limitations of applicable law; and
 
(11)           any other designations, powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations or restrictions of shares of that series.
 
Any of the designations, powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations or restrictions of any series of Preferred Stock may be dependent on facts ascertainable outside these Articles of Incorporation, or outside the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such series of Preferred Stock adopted by the Board of Directors or a duly appointed committee thereof pursuant to authority expressly vested in it by these Articles of Incorporation.  Except as applicable law or these Articles of Incorporation otherwise may require, the terms of any series of Preferred Stock may be amended without consent of the holders of any other series of Preferred Stock or any class of capital stock of the corporation.
 
 
-5-
 
The relative powers, preferences and rights of each series of Preferred Stock in relation to the powers, preferences and rights of each other series of Preferred Stock shall, in each case, be as fixed from time to time in the resolution or resolutions adopted pursuant to the authority granted in this Division A of this Article VI, and the consent, by class or series vote or otherwise, of holders of Preferred Stock of such of the series of Preferred Stock as are from time to time outstanding shall not be required for the issuance of any other series of Preferred Stock, whether or not the powers, preferences and rights of such other series shall be fixed as senior to, or on a parity with, the powers, preferences and rights of such outstanding series, or any of them; provided, however, that the resolution or resolutions adopted with respect to any series of Preferred Stock may provide that the consent of holders of at least a majority (or such greater proportion as shall be therein fixed) of the outstanding shares of such series voting thereon shall be required for the issuance of shares of any or all other series of Preferred Stock.
 
Shares of any series of Preferred Stock shall have no voting rights except as required by law or as provided in the relative powers, preferences and rights of such series.
 
1           . Dividends may be paid on the Common Stock, as the Board of Directors shall from time to time determine, out of any assets of the corporation available for such dividends after full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of capital stock of all series ranking senior to the Common Stock in respect of dividends and liquidation rights (referred to in this Division B as stock ranking senior to the Common Stock) have been paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart, for all past quarterly dividend periods, and after or concurrently with making payment of or provision for dividends on the stock ranking senior to the Common Stock for the then current quarterly dividend period.
.
Dividends
 
2.           s.  In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation, or any reduction or decrease of its capital stock resulting in a distribution of assets to the holders of its Common Stock, after there shall have been paid to or set aside for the holders of the stock ranking senior to the Common Stock the full preferential amounts to which they are respectively entitled, the holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled to receive, pro rata, all of the remaining assets of the corporation available for distribution to its shareholders.  The Board of Directors, by vote of a majority of the members thereof, may distribute in kind to the holders of the Common Stock such remaining assets of the corporation, or may sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or any of the remaining property and assets of the corporation to any other corporation or other purchaser and receive payment therefor wholly or partly in cash or property, and/or in stock of any such corporation, and/or in obligations of such corporation or other purchaser, and may sell all or any part of the consideration received therefor and distribute the same or the proceeds thereof to the holders of the Common Stock.
Distribution of Asset
 
3.           .  Subject to the voting rights expressly conferred under prescribed conditions upon the stock ranking senior to the Common Stock, the holders of the Common Stock shall exclusively possess full voting power for the election of directors and for all other purposes.
Voting Rights
 
 
-6-
 
 
1.           .  No holder of any stock of the corporation shall be entitled as of right to purchase or subscribe for any part of any unissued or treasury stock of the corporation, or of any additional stock of any class, to be issued by reason of any increase of the authorized capital stock of the corporation, or to be issued from any unissued or additionally authorized stock, or of bonds, certificates of indebtedness, debentures or other securities convertible into stock of the corporation, but any such unissued or treasury stock, or any such additional authorized issue of new stock or securities convertible into stock, may be issued and disposed of by the Board of Directors to such persons, firms, corporations or associations, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, determine, without offering to the shareholders then of record, or any class of shareholders, any thereof, on the same terms or any terms.
Preemptive Rights
 
2.           .  Any shareholder of the corporation having the right to vote at any meeting of the shareholders or of any class or series thereof, shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by him, provided that no holder of Common Stock of the corporation shall be entitled to cumulate his votes for the election of one or more directors or for any other purpose.
Votes Per Share
 
 
The corporation has heretofore complied with the requirements of law as to the initial minimum capital requirements without which it could not commence business under the Texas Business Corporation Act.
 
 
(a)           The Board of Directors shall have the power to alter, amend or repeal the Bylaws or adopt new Bylaws.  Any alteration, amendment or repeal of the Bylaws or adoption of new Bylaws shall require: (1) the affirmative vote of at least 80% of all directors then in office at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or (2)  the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of all the shares of the corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.
Bylaws.  
 
(b)             In addition to any other affirmative vote required by applicable law, this Article VIII may not be amended, modified or repealed except by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation generally entitled to vote in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.
Amendment of Article VIII.
 
 
A director of the corporation shall not be liable to the corporation or its shareholders for monetary damages for any act or omission in the directors capacity as a director, except that this Article IX does not eliminate or limit the liability of a director for:
 
 
-7-
 
(a)           a breach of the directors duty of loyalty to the corporation or its shareholders;
 
(b)           an act or omission not in good faith that constitutes a breach of duty of the director to the corporation or an act or omission that involves intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of the law;
 
(c)           a transaction from which the director received an improper benefit, whether or not the benefit resulted from an action taken within the scope of a directors office;
 
(d)           an act or omission for which the liability of a director is expressly provided for by statute.
 
If the Texas Miscellaneous Corporation Laws Act or the Texas Business Corporation Act is amended, after approval of the foregoing paragraph by the shareholder or shareholders of the corporation entitled to vote thereon, to authorize action further eliminating or limiting the personal liability of directors, then the liability of a director of the corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by such statutes, as so amended.  Any repeal or modification of the foregoing paragraph shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
 
 
To the extent permitted by applicable law, and except as provided herein, the vote of shareholders required for approval of any action that is recommended to shareholders by the Board of Directors and for which applicable law requires a shareholder vote, including without limitation (1) any plan of merger, consolidation or exchange, (2) any disposition of assets, (3) any dissolution of the corporation, and (4) any amendment of these Articles of Incorporation, shall, if a greater vote of shareholders is provided for by the Texas Business Corporation Act or other applicable law, instead be the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon, unless any class or series of shares is entitled to vote as a class thereon, in which event the vote required shall be the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares within each class or series of shares entitled to vote thereon as a class and at least a majority of the outstanding shares otherwise entitled to vote thereon.  The foregoing shall not apply to any action or shareholder vote authorized or required by any addition, amendment or modification to applicable law that becomes effective after the date of execution of these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation if and to the extent a bylaw adopted by the Board of Directors or the shareholders so provides.  Any repeal, amendment or modification of any such bylaw so adopted shall require the same vote of shareholders as would be required to approve the action or vote subject to such bylaw had the first sentence of this Article X not applied to such action or vote.
 
 
-8-
 
 
(a)             Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the Chairman of the Board, if there is one, the Chief Executive Officer, if there is one, the President, the Secretary or the Board of Directors.  Subject to the provisions of the corporations Bylaws governing special meetings, holders of not less than 50% of all of the shares of capital stock of the corporation outstanding and entitled to vote at such meeting may also call a special meeting of shareholders by furnishing the corporation a written request which states the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting in the manner set forth in the Bylaws.
Special Meetings.
 
(b)             In addition to any other affirmative vote required by applicable law, this Article XI may not be amended, modified or repealed except by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the voting power of all outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation generally entitled to vote in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.
Amendment of Article XI.
 
 
-9-
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed these Restated Articles of Incorporation this 24th day of July, 2008.
 
As of the date indicated above, the Statement of Resolution Establishing Series of Shares designated Series A Preferred Stock of CenterPoint Energy, Inc. originally filed on March 27, 2002 and attached hereto as Exhibit A (the Statement of Resolution) was part of the Articles of Incorporation.  The Statement of Resolution establishes a series of shares of Preferred Stock designated as Series A Preferred Stock and consisting of 1,000,000 shares.
 
 
-10-
 
Exhibit A
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 2.13D of the Texas Business Corporation Act, the undersigned submits the following statement for the purpose of establishing and designating a series of shares of its Preferred Stock, without par value, designated Series A Preferred Stock and fixing and determining the relative rights and preferences thereof:
1.           The name of the company is CENTERPOINT ENERGY, INC. (the Company).
2.           The following resolution establishing and designating a series of shares and fixing and determining the relative rights and preferences thereof, was duly adopted by all necessary action on the part of the Company on November 1, 2001:
RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors of this Company in accordance with the provisions of the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company, a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares thereof and the preferences, limitations and relative rights, including voting rights, of the shares of such series and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof are as follows:
 
            There shall be a series of Preferred Stock that shall be designated as Series A Preferred Stock, and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 1,000,000.  Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; provided, however, that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to less than the number of shares then issued and outstanding plus the number of shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding rights, options or warrants or upon conversion of outstanding securities issued by the Company.
1.
Designation and Amount. 
 
2.           Dividends and Distributions.
 
(A)           Subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock ranking prior and superior to the shares of Series A Preferred Stock with
 
 
-1-
 
Exhibit A
respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of shares of any class or series of stock of the Company ranking junior to the Series A Preferred Stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of assets of the Company legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first day of January, April, July and October in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $10.00 or (b) the Adjustment Number (as defined below) times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and the Adjustment Number times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock, without par value, of the Company (the Common Stock) or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock, since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock.  The Adjustment Number shall initially be 1,000.  In the event the Company shall at any time after the time of the issuance by the Secretary of State of the State of Texas of the certificate of merger with respect to the merger of Reliant Energy MergerCo, Inc., a Texas corporation (MergerCo), with and into Reliant Energy, Incorporated, a Texas corporation (REI), pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of October 19, 2001, by and among REI, MergerCo and the Company (the Merger), or, if a later effective time was provided in the articles of merger with respect to the Merger, such later time (the Rights Declaration Date) (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the Adjustment Number in effect immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such Adjustment Number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
 
(B)           The Company shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) above immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $10.00 per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
 
(C)           Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares of Series A Preferred Stock, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.  Accrued but unpaid
 
 
-2-
 
Exhibit A
dividends shall not bear interest.  Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding.  The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon.
 
           The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
3.
Voting Rights. 
 
(A)          Each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to a number of votes equal to the Adjustment Number on all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the Company.
 
(B)          Except as otherwise provided by law or the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, the holders of shares of any other class or series entitled to vote with the Common Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of the Company.
 
(C)          (i)   If at any time dividends on any Series A Preferred Stock shall be in arrears in an amount equal to six quarterly dividends thereon, the occurrence of such contingency shall mark the beginning of a period (herein called a default period) that shall extend until such time when all accrued and unpaid dividends for all previous quarterly dividend periods and for the current quarterly dividend period on all shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding shall have been declared and paid or set apart for payment.  During each default period, (1) the number of directors of the Company shall be increased by two, effective as of the time of election of such directors as herein provided, and (2) the holders of Preferred Stock (including holders of the Series A Preferred Stock) upon which these or like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable (the Voting Preferred Stock) with dividends in arrears in an amount equal to six quarterly dividends thereon, voting as a class, irrespective of series, shall have the right to elect such two directors.
 
(ii)           During any default period, such voting right of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock may be exercised initially at a special meeting called pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of this Section 3(C) or at any annual meeting of shareholders, and thereafter at annual meetings of shareholders, provided that such voting right shall not be exercised unless the holders of at least one-third in number of the shares of Voting Preferred Stock outstanding shall be present in person or by proxy.  The absence of a quorum of the holders of Common Stock shall not affect the exercise by the holders of Voting Preferred Stock of such voting right.
 
(iii)           Unless the holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall, during an existing default period, have previously exercised their right to elect directors, the Board of Directors may order, or any shareholder or shareholders owning in the aggregate not less than ten percent of the total number of shares of Voting Preferred Stock outstanding, irrespective of series, may request, the calling of a special meeting of the holders of Voting Preferred Stock, which meeting shall
 
 
-3-
 
Exhibit A
thereupon be called by the Chairman, the President, a Vice President or the Corporate Secretary of the Company.  Notice of such meeting and of any annual meeting at which holders of Voting Preferred Stock are entitled to vote pursuant to this paragraph (C)(iii) shall be given to each holder of record of Voting Preferred Stock by mailing a copy of such notice to him at his last address as the same appears on the books of the Company.  Such meeting shall be called for a time not earlier than 20 days and not later than 60 days after such order or request or, in default of the calling of such meeting within 60 days after such order or request, such meeting may be called on similar notice by any shareholder or shareholders owning in the aggregate not less than ten percent (10%) of the total number of shares of Voting Preferred Stock outstanding.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (C)(iii), no such special meeting shall be called during the period within 60 days immediately preceding the date fixed for the next annual meeting of the shareholders.
 
(iv)           In any default period, after the holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right to elect directors voting as a class, (x) the directors so elected by the holders of Voting Preferred Stock shall continue in office until their successors shall have been elected by such holders or until the expiration of the default period, and (y) any vacancy in the Board of Directors may be filled by vote of a majority of the remaining directors theretofore elected by the holders of the class or classes of stock which elected the director whose office shall have become vacant.  References in this paragraph (C) to directors elected by the holders of a particular class or classes of stock shall include directors elected by such directors to fill vacancies as provided in clause (y) of the foregoing sentence.
 
(v)           Immediately upon the expiration of a default period, (x) the right of the holders of Voting Preferred Stock as a class to elect directors shall cease, (y) the term of any directors elected by the holders of Voting Preferred Stock as a class shall terminate and (z) the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company or the Amended and Restated Bylaws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (C) of this Section 3 (such number being subject, however, to change thereafter in any manner provided by law or in the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company or the Amended and Restated Bylaws).  Any vacancies in the Board of Directors effected by the provisions of clauses (y) and (z) in the preceding sentence may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors.
 
(D)          Except as set forth herein, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
 
4.           Certain Restrictions.
 
(A)          Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Company shall not:
 
 
-4-
 
Exhibit A
(i)           declare or pay dividends on, make any other distributions on, or redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;
 
(ii)           declare or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled; or
 
(iii)           redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of Series A Preferred Stock, or to all such holders and the holders of any such shares ranking on a parity therewith, upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative powers, preferences and rights of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
 
(B)          The Company shall not permit any subsidiary of the Company to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of capital stock of the Company unless the Company could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
 
           Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof.  All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, subject to any conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth in the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company.
5.
Reacquired Shares. 
 
           any liquidation (voluntary or otherwise), dissolution or winding up of the Company, no distribution shall be made to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have received $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment (the Series A Liquidation Preference).  Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference, no additional distributions shall be made to the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Common Stock shall have received an amount per share (the Common Adjustment) equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Series A Liquidation
6.
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up. 
Upon
(A)
 
 
-5-
 
Exhibit A
Preference by (ii) the Adjustment Number.  Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the Common Adjustment in respect of all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock and Common Stock, respectively, holders of Series A Preferred Stock and holders of shares of Common Stock shall, subject to the prior rights of all other series of Preferred Stock, if any, ranking prior thereto, receive their ratable and proportionate share of the remaining assets to be distributed in the ratio of the Adjustment Number to 1 with respect to such Series A Preferred Stock and Common Stock, on a per share basis, respectively.
 
(B)          In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the liquidation preferences of all other series of Preferred Stock, if any, that rank on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of such parity shares in proportion to their respective liquidation preferences.  In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Common Adjustment, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of Common Stock.
 
(C)          Neither the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with another Company nor the merger or consolidation of any other Company into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company within the meaning of this Section 6, but the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all of the Companys assets shall be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company within the meaning of this Section 6.
 
           In case the Company shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination, share exchange or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed in an amount per share equal to the Adjustment Number times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged.
7.
Consolidation, Merger, etc.  
 
           (A) The Company, at its option, may redeem shares of the Series A Preferred Stock in whole at any time and in part from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the Adjustment Number times the current per share market price (as such term is hereinafter defined) of the Common Stock on the date of the mailing of the notice of redemption, together with unpaid accumulated dividends to the date of such redemption.  The current per share market price on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the closing price per share of such Common Stock for the ten consecutive Trading Days (as such term is hereinafter defined) immediately prior to such date; provided, however, that in the event that the current per share market price of the Common Stock is determined during a period following the announcement of (A) a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock other than a regular quarterly cash dividend or (B) any subdivision, combination or reclassification of such Common Stock and the ex-dividend date for such
8.
Redemption.  
 
 
-6-
 
Exhibit A
dividend or distribution, or the record date for such subdivision, combination or reclassification, shall not have occurred prior to the commencement of such ten Trading Day period, then, and in each such case, the current per share market price shall be properly adjusted to take into account ex-dividend trading.  The closing price for each day shall be the last sales price, regular way, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the principal transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading, or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange but sales price information is reported for such security, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System (Nasdaq) or such other self-regulatory organization or registered securities information processor (as such terms are used under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) that then reports information concerning the Common Stock, or, if sales price information is not so reported, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market on such day, as reported by Nasdaq or such other entity, or, if on any such date the Common Stock is not quoted by any such entity, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the Common Stock selected by the Board of Directors.  If on any such date no such market maker is making a market in the Common Stock, the fair value of the Common Stock on such date as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors shall be used.  The term Trading Day shall mean a day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading is open for the transaction of business, or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange but is quoted by Nasdaq, a day on which Nasdaq reports trades, or, if the Common Stock is not so quoted, a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions in the State of New York or Texas are not authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
 
(B)          In the event that fewer than all of the outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed shall be determined by the Board of Directors and the shares to be redeemed shall be determined by lot or pro rata as may be determined by the Board of Directors or by any other method that may be determined by the Board of Directors in its sole discretion to be equitable.
 
(C)          Notice of any such redemption shall be given by mailing to the holders of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock to be redeemed a notice of such redemption, first class postage prepaid, not later than the twentieth day and not earlier than the sixtieth day before the date fixed for redemption, at their last address as the same shall appear upon the books of the Company.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the close of business on such redemption date.  Any notice that is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the shareholder received such notice, and failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice, to any holder of
 
 
-7-
 
Exhibit A
Series A Preferred Stock shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series A Preferred Stock that are to be redeemed.  On or after the date fixed for redemption as stated in such notice, each holder of the shares called for redemption shall surrender the certificate evidencing such shares to the Company at the place designated in such notice and shall thereupon be entitled to receive payment of the redemption price.  If fewer than all the shares represented by any such surrendered certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares.
 
(D)          The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be subject to the operation of any purchase, retirement or sinking fund.
 
           The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank junior to all other series of Preferred Stock (other than any such series of Preferred Stock the terms of which shall provide otherwise) in respect to dividend and liquidation rights, and shall rank senior to the Common Stock as to such matters.
9.
Ranking.  
 
           At any time that any shares of Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company shall not be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds or more of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class.
10.
Amendment.  
 
           Series A Preferred Stock may be issued in fractions of a share that shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holders fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Preferred Stock.
11.
Fractional Shares.  
 
 
-8-
 


