FILE:CNP/CNP-8K-20081212172414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
     On December 11, 2008, CenterPoint Energy, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric, LLC ("CEHE"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, filed a settlement agreement with the Public Utility Commission of Texas ("Texas Utility Commission"), which includes a plan to deploy an advanced metering system across CEHE's service territory over the next five years.
     The Press Release is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Regulation FD. Accordingly, the Press Release will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company or CEHE under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference. The furnishing of the Press Release is not intended to, and does not, constitute a determination or admission by the Company or CEHE that the information in the press release is material or complete, or that investors should consider this information before making an investment decision with respect to any security of the Company, CEHE or any of their affiliates.
     On December 11, 2008, CEHE filed a settlement agreement with the Texas Utility Commission, which includes a plan to deploy an advanced metering system across CEHE's service territory over the next five years. The settlement agreement reached with Texas Utility Commission staff and other interested parties is subject to review and approval by the Texas Utility Commission. The Company anticipates that CEHE could begin installing meters as early as March 1, 2009, if the filed plan is approved by the end of 2008.
     By this settlement, CEHE would recover the cost for the interactive meters through a monthly surcharge to all retail electric providers over 12 years. The surcharge for each residential consumer for the first 24 months, beginning in February 2009, will be $3.24 per month; thereafter, the surcharge is scheduled to be reduced to $3.05 per month. These amounts are subject to upward or downward adjustment in future proceedings to reflect actual costs incurred and to address required changes in scope. The Company projects capital expenditures of approximately $640 million for the installation of the interactive meters and corresponding communication and data management systems over the five-year deployment period.
     This report includes forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those projected. The statements in this report regarding the timing of Texas Utility Commission approval, the anticipated timing of installation of meters, projected capital expenditures and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect actual results include the timing and outcome of the Texas Utility Commission approval process, the timing and impact of future regulatory and legislative decisions, general market conditions and other factors discussed in the Company's and CEHE's Form 10-Ks for the period ended December 31, 2007, Form 10-Qs for the periods ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The exhibit listed below is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K.
          (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
      CenterPoint Energy, Inc.'s (NYSE:CNP) electric transmission and distribution subsidiary, CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric, today filed with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUC) a settlement agreement, which includes a plan to deploy an advanced metering system (AMS) across its service territory over the next five years. The settlement agreement reached with PUC staff and other interested parties is subject to review and approval by the PUC. The company anticipates that it could begin installing meters as early as March 1, 2009, if the filed plan is approved by the end of 2008.
HOUSTON  December 11, 2008
     "This new metering technology is the first step in moving the electric grid into the digital age," said Tom Standish, Regulated Operations group president for CenterPoint Energy. "This innovative technology should encourage greater energy conservation by giving Houston-area electric consumers the ability to better monitor and manage their electric use and its cost in near real-time."
     Initially, these meters would provide the capability for remote meter reading, eliminating the need for personnel to physically read each customer's meter. Beginning in September 2009, functionality of these meters will be expanded to provide the ability to remotely connect and disconnect electric service, which should significantly reduce the time required for customers to have new electric service connected, and eventually reduce the time to switch Retail Electric Provides (REPs). The meters will also be able to function interactively with compatible home-area-network devices, allowing consumers to remotely operate thermostats and other electric appliances.
     CenterPoint Energy does not send electric bills to end-use consumers, but is responsible for meter reading and maintaining service reliability to more than two million electric customers in the Houston area. "We're confident that over the long run AMS will prove beneficial to end-use consumers, retail electric providers, and as importantly, the environment  by promoting greater energy awareness and conservation," said Standish.
     The interactive meters are expected to improve consumer awareness of their electric consumption, allowing them to be better informed about when they use energy. The meters will also enable REPs to offer new products and services to their customers, such as prepaid electric service, time-of-use rates, and other energy management services. Such new features would give customers better control over their energy costs and could
 
encourage shifting of electricity demand if the REPs offer lower, off-peak pricing, thereby helping to reduce the need to build new power plants.
     By this settlement, the company would recover the cost for the interactive meters through a monthly surcharge to all REPs over 12 years. The surcharge for each residential consumer for the first 24 months, beginning in February 2009, will be $3.24 per month; thereafter, the surcharge is scheduled to be reduced to $3.05 per month. These amounts are subject to upward or downward adjustment in future proceedings to reflect actual costs incurred and to address required changes in scope. CenterPoint Energy projects capital expenditures of approximately $640 million for the installation of the interactive meters and corresponding communication and data management systems over the five-year deployment period.
     The surcharge also includes $7.5 million to provide in-home monitors for low income customers and $5.6 million for consumer education on how to use these meters.
     CenterPoint Energy, Inc., headquartered in Houston, Texas, is a domestic energy delivery company that includes electric transmission & distribution, natural gas distribution, competitive natural gas sales and services, interstate pipelines, and field services operations. The company serves more than five million metered customers primarily in Arkansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Oklahoma, and Texas. Assets total over $19 billion. With about 8,600 employees, CenterPoint Energy and its predecessor companies have been in business for more than 130 years. For more information, visit the Web site at www.CenterPointEnergy.com.
     This news release includes forward-looking statements. Actual events and results may differ materially from those projected. The statements in this news release regarding future financial performance and results of operations and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect actual results include the timing and outcome of appeals from the true-up proceedings, the timing and impact of future regulatory, legislative and IRS decisions, effects of competition, weather variations, changes in CenterPoint Energy's or its subsidiaries' business plans, financial market conditions, the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, particularly natural gas, the impact of unplanned facility outages, and other factors discussed in CenterPoint Energy's and its subsidiaries' Form 10-Ks for the period ended December 31, 2007, CenterPoint Energy's Form 10-Qs for the period ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


