FILE:CNP/CNP-8K-20100428145621.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
     At the annual meeting of the shareholders of CenterPoint Energy, Inc. ("CenterPoint Energy") held on April 22, 2010, the matters voted upon and the number of votes cast for or against, as well as the number of abstentions and broker non-votes as to such matters, were as stated below.
     The following nominees for directors were elected to serve one-year terms expiring at the 2011 annual meeting of shareholders:
     The appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent registered public accountants for CenterPoint Energy for 2010 was ratified:
     On April 22, 2010, the Board of Directors of CenterPoint Energy authorized CenterPoint Energy to provide to Milton Carroll, CenterPoint Energy's non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, certain compensation arrangements. The compensation arrangements are summarized in Exhibit 10.1 attached to this report and incorporated by reference herein.
     The exhibit listed below is filed pursuant to Item 8.01 of this Form 8-K.
          (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
     The following is a summary of certain compensation arrangements of Milton Carroll, the non-executive chairman of the board of directors of CenterPoint Energy, Inc. (the "Company"), effective April 22, 2010. Such compensation arrangements are in addition to the normal retainers paid to directors and committee chairmen of the Company's board of directors (which Milton Carroll shall continue to receive while a non-employee director). For additional information regarding the compensation of the non-employee directors, please read the definitive proxy statement relating to the Company's 2010 annual meeting of shareholders filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.


