FILE:ABT/ABT-8K-20030409092308.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Item 7.    
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)
Exhibits.
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Item 9.    
Information Provided Under Item 12 (Results of Operations and Financial Condition)
        On April 9, 2003, Abbott Laboratories announced its results of operations for the first quarter of 2003. Furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is a press release by Abbott Laboratories announcing its first quarter results.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9. Information Provided Under Item 12 (Results of Operations and Financial Condition)
SIGNATURE
EXHIBIT INDEX

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
 - 
Abbott achieved first-quarter earnings per share of $0.51, meeting the First Call analyst consensus estimate and within the company's previous guidance of $0.50 to $0.52.
 - 
Worldwide HUMIRA sales totaled $26 million, with $24 million from the United States and $2 million in international sales from patient named basis (PNB) programs. As a result of the strong prescription growth trends for HUMIRA, Abbott is raising its 2003 worldwide sales forecast for the drug from more than $150 million to more than $200 million.
 - 
Growth in Abbott's Pharmaceutical Products Group was driven by a 13 percent increase in U.S. pharmaceuticals.
Flomax sales increased 29 percent to $141 million.
TriCor sales increased 23 percent to $118 million.
Kaletra sales increased 31 percent to $80 million.
Omnicef sales increased 29 percent to $51 million.
 - 
Growth in Abbott's Medical Products Group was driven by an 8 percent increase in sales of U.S. pediatric nutritionals and a 35 percent increase in U.S. Ultane sales. In addition, worldwide diagnostic sales increased 6 percent, driven by a strong increase in international sales, favorably impacted by exchange rates.
        
ABBOTT PARK, Ill., April 9, 2003
Abbott Laboratories today reported an increase in sales for the first quarter ended March 31, 2003. Worldwide sales for the quarter were $4.580 billion, up 9.3 percent from $4.189 billion in the first quarter of 2002. Total sales were favorably impacted 3.0 percent due to the effect of exchange rates. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.51, meeting the First Call analyst consensus estimate and within the company's previous guidance of $0.50 to $0.52. Net earnings were $801 million, compared to $854 million during the first quarter of 2002, reflecting investment in HUMIRA's U.S. launch and clinical development, consistent with previous forecasts.
        "Our pharmaceutical business continued to perform well during the quarter," said Miles D. White, chairman and chief executive officer. "We are especially pleased with the progress of our HUMIRA launch, resulting in our increased forecast for 2003 worldwide HUMIRA sales. As expected, we made significant investments during the quarter to support an aggressive launch, as well as to further develop our emerging pipeline. We will continue to make the required investment in HUMIRA to ensure we maximize its penetration into a growing and underserved patient population."
        The following is a summary of first-quarter 2003 sales for each of Abbott's major operating divisions and its 50-percent-owned joint venture, TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.
Note:    See Page 10 for complete "Consolidated Statement of Earnings."
*
Sales for TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc., Abbott's joint venture with Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd., of Osaka, Japan. While sales from the joint venture are not consolidated in Abbott's net sales, Abbott's portion of TAP's net income is included in a separate income line on the "Consolidated Statement of Earnings."
**
Includes the international sales of Synagis.
First-quarter results
        Total first-quarter sales in U.S. markets were $2.764 billion, up 7.4 percent from $2.572 billion in the first quarter of 2002. Total international sales, including direct exports from the United States, were $1.816 billion, a 12.3 percent increase from $1.617 billion recorded one year ago. International sales were favorably impacted 7.7 percent due to the effect of exchange rates. Without the impact of exchange, international sales increased by 4.6 percent.
Abbott provides guidance for full-year 2003 and issues guidance for second-quarter 2003
        Abbott's earnings-per-share guidance for 2003 remains unchanged at $2.20 to $2.25. For the first time, Abbott is providing earnings-per-share guidance of $0.51 to $0.53 for the second quarter of 2003.
        The following is a summary of first-quarter 2003 sales for selected products.
*
Abbott's U.S. anti-infectives franchise, which includes Biaxin (clarithromycin) and Omnicef, grew 0.9 percent.
**
International HUMIRA sales were generated from patient named basis (PNB) programs; European regulatory approval is pending.
a
Without the impact of exchange, clarithromycin sales decreased 4.1 percent internationally.
b
Without the impact of exchange, Kaletra sales increased 42.9 percent internationally.
c
Without the impact of exchange, adult nutritional sales increased 4.7 percent internationally.
d
Without the impact of exchange, MediSense product sales increased 5.3 percent internationally.
e
Without the impact of exchange, Sevorane sales increased 6.5 percent internationally.
n/m = Percent change is not meaningful.
BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS
Abbott supplies newly approved rheumatoid arthritis medication, HUMIRA, (adalimumab) to U.S. pharmacies
        Abbott began supplying its rheumatoid arthritis (RA) medication, HUMIRA, to pharmacies throughout the United States during the week of Jan. 6, making it available to people with RA by mid-January. HUMIRA is approved for reducing the signs and symptoms and inhibiting the progression of structural damage in adults with moderately to severely active RA who have had insufficient response to one or more traditional disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved HUMIRA on Dec. 31, 2002, only nine months after simultaneous regulatory submissions in the United States and Europe. Abbott is confident it can supply sufficient quantities to meet patient demand and announced a manufacturing expansion to meet future demand for HUMIRA, as well as other biologics in its pipeline.
Abbott initiates trials to explore use of HUMIRA in psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis
        On March 3, Abbott announced the expansion of its immunology clinical trials program to include studies evaluating the potential of HUMIRA in psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. Psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis are autoimmune disorders in which a human protein, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-), has been suggested to play a role in the disease development. Data from clinical studies suggest that treatments that inhibit TNF- may be effective in these disease states. HUMIRA, which is a human monoclonal antibody that resembles antibodies normally found in the body, works by specifically blocking TNF-.
a
a
a
Abbott resumes share repurchase program
        Abbott announced on Feb. 14 that it has resumed its share repurchase program. In June 2000, the board of directors authorized the repurchase of 25 million shares of Abbott's outstanding common stock. The program was temporarily suspended in January 2001, following the company's announced acquisition of BASF's pharmaceutical business, which included the global operations of Knoll. When the company announced the program was being resumed, there were 14.4 million outstanding common shares that remained from the prior authorization.
Abbott bar codes 100 percent of its hospital injectable pharmaceuticals and I.V. solutions
        On March 27, Abbott announced that it had completed its initiative to affix unit-of-use bar codes to 100 percent of its hospital injectable pharmaceuticals and I.V. solutions. The achievement, which encompasses more than 1,000 products, is part of Abbott's comprehensive, industry-leading initiative to help reduce medication errors and enhance patient safety in hospitals.
Abbott announces elimination of needles from infusion therapy product line
        Abbott announced on March 27 that it will phase out by June 2003 all I.V. sets that contain or require needles, as part of the company's continued commitment to improving patient and health care worker safety. By no longer manufacturing and marketing these products, the company expects millions of needles to be eliminated from the U.S. health care system. Abbott will use a needle-free technology across its entire line of infusion therapy products.
Abbott launches the Dexamet stent system in Europe
        On Feb. 11, Abbott announced the launch of its Dexamet (dexamethasone-eluting) stent in Europe following CE-mark approval, which was received in December 2002. This introduction represents a significant milestone for Abbott Vascular Devices, Abbott's cardiovascular device franchise, and its evolving drug-eluting stent program. Abbott Vascular Devices' Dexamet coronary stent is the first and only approved stent to couple the anti-inflammatory compound, dexamethasone, with PC Technology, an innovative biologically inert coating designed to mimic the body's own chemistry and minimize its response to implanted devices.
Abbott and OraSure introduce OraQuick Rapid HIV-1 antibody test
        Abbott and OraSure Technologies Inc. announced on Jan. 30 the availability of the rapid HIV-1 antibody test, OraQuick, to hospitals, physician offices and other health care facilities in the United States. OraQuick is the first rapid, point-of-care test approved by the FDA designed to detect antibodies to HIV-1 in finger-stick whole blood within approximately 20 minutes. The test was approved by the FDA on Nov. 7, 2002. Based on clinical data submitted by OraSure Technologies, the OraQuick test has been shown to have sensitivity and specificity comparable to laboratory-based tests.
Abbott declares quarterly dividend
        On Feb. 14, the board of directors of Abbott increased the company's quarterly common dividend to 24.5 cents per share. The cash dividend is payable May 15, 2003, to shareholders of record at the close of business on April 15, 2003. This marks the 317 consecutive dividend paid by Abbott since 1924.
th
        Abbott Laboratories is a global, broad-based health care company devoted to the discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceuticals, nutritionals and medical products, including devices and diagnostics. The company employs more than 70,000 people and markets its products in more than 130 countries.
        Abbott's news releases and other information are available on the company's Web site at www.abbott.com. Abbott will webcast its live first-quarter earnings conference call through its Investor Relations Web site at www.abbottinvestor.com at 9 a.m. Central time. An archived edition of the call will be available after 1 p.m. Central time.
        
Some statements in this news release may be forward-looking statements for purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Abbott cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Exhibit 99.1 of our 2002 Annual Report on Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K and are incorporated by reference. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
NOTE:    See attached Q&A on first-quarter 2003 results for further explanation of Consolidated Statement of Earnings line items.
n/m = Percent change is not meaningful.
QuickLinks
Exhibit 99.1
Q&A on first-quarter 2003 results


