FILE:ABT/ABT-8K-20050923170057.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                                   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
                                   
 
 
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure.
        
 
Abbott to Appeal District Court's Ruling in Ultane (sevoflurane) case against Baxter
 
The U.S. District Court found that Abbott's patent is valid, but that Baxter did not infringe Abbott's patent.
Abbott will file a request for an expedited appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in response to the U.S. District Court ruling in a patent infringement case against Baxter relating to one of Abbott's sevoflurane patents. 
 
Until December 11, 2005, Baxter is prohibited from marketing sevoflurane worldwide, with the exception of China, Japan and Korea, as a result of a previous court ruling. Abbott is also proceeding with a second lawsuit against Baxter based on additional patents related to sevoflurane formulations.
 
This ruling has no impact on Abbott's previously stated 2005 earnings per share guidance.
 
Some statements in this 8-K may be forward-looking statements for the purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We caution that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Exhibit 99.1 of our Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2005, and are incorporated by reference. We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments.
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995  A Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Report is Being Furnished
 
The information in Item 7.01 of this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Regulation FD. Accordingly, the information in Item 7.01 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by Abbott Laboratories under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference. The furnishing of the information in this report is not intended to, and does not, constitute a determination or admission by Abbott, that the information in this report is material or complete, or that investors should consider this information before making an investment decision with respect to any security of Abbott.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


