FILE:ABT/ABT-8K-20060221143714.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                         
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                         
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                         
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
                         
 
Item 1.01          Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
In recognition of the increasing demands on the audit committee chairman and members, the board of directors of Abbott, on February 17, 2006, amended the Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, effective as of the 2006 Annual Meeting (April 28, 2006).  As amended, the plan provides that in addition to the other fees payable under the plan, the chairman of the audit committee will receive $1,500 for each month of service as a chairman of that committee and the other members of the audit committee will receive $500 for each month of service as a committee member.  Currently, the chairman of the audit committee receives $1,000 for each month of service as chairman of that committee.  A copy of the Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, as amended and restated, is attached as Exhibit 10.1.
 
Item 9.01          Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
ABBOTT LABORATORIES NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS' FEE PLAN - - referred to below as the "Plan" - has been established by ABBOTT LABORATORIES - - referred to below as the "Company" - to attract and retain as members of its Board of Directors persons who are not full-time employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries but whose business experience and judgment are a valuable asset to the Company and its subsidiaries.
 
As used in the Plan, the term "Director" means any person who is elected to the Board of Directors of the Company in April, 1962 or at any time thereafter, and is not a full-time employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
 
Each Director shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of Six Thousand Six Hundred Sixty-Seven Dollars ($6,667.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected a Director) that he holds such office with the Company.
3.1.
        
 
A Director who serves as Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Six Hundred Dollars ($1,600.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.
3.2.
        
 
Audit Committee Fees
3.3.
        
 
A Director who serves as Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.
(a)
          
 
Each Director who serves on the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (other than the Chairman of the Audit Committee) shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) for
(b)
          
each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.
 
 
A Director who serves as Chairman of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.
3.4.
         
 
A Director who serves as Chairman of the Nominations Committee of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.
3.5.
         
 
A Director who serves as Chairman of any other Committee created by this Board of Directors shall be entitled to a deferred monthly fee of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) for each calendar month or portion thereof (excluding the month in which he is first elected to such position) that he holds such position.
3.6.
         
 
A Director's Deferred Fee Account shall be credited with interest annually. During the calendar years 1968 and prior, the rate of interest credited to deferred fees shall be four (4) percent per annum. During the calendar years 1969 through 1992, the rate of interest credited to deferred fees shall be the average of the prime rates being charged by the two largest commercial banks in the City of Chicago as of the end of the month coincident with or last preceding the date upon which said interest is so credited. During the calendar years 1993 and subsequent, the rate of interest credited to deferred fees shall be equal to: (a) the average of the prime rates being charged by the two largest commercial banks in the City of Chicago as of the end of the month coincident with or last preceding the date upon which said interest is so credited; plus (b) two hundred twenty-five (225) basis points. For purposes of the provisions of the Plan, the term "deferred fees" shall include "deferred monthly fees," and "deferred meeting fees," and shall also include any such interest credited thereon.
3.7.
         
 
A Director's deferred fees earned pursuant to the Plan shall commence to be paid on the first day of the calendar month next following the earlier of his death or his attainment of age sixty-five (65) if he is not then serving as a Director, or the termination of his service as a Director if he serves as a Director after the attainment of age sixty-five (65); provided that any Director may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, elect to receive current payment of all or any portion of the monthly and meeting fees earned by him in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year in which he files such notice (or all or any portion of such fees earned by him in the calendar year he first becomes a Director, if such notice is filed within 30 days of becoming a Director), in which case such fees or the portion thereof so designated earned in such calendar years shall not be deferred but shall be paid quarterly as earned and no interest shall be credited thereon. Such election may be revoked or modified by any Director by written notice to the Secretary of the Company as to fees to be earned by him in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year in which he files such notice.
4.1.
        
 
After a Director's deferred fees shall have commenced to be payable pursuant to Paragraph 4.1 they shall be payable in annual installments in the order in which they shall have been deferred (i.e. the deferred fees for the earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the date provided for in Section 4.1, the deferred fees for the next earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the anniversary of the payment of the first installment, etc.).
4.2.
         
 
A Director's deferred fees shall continue to be paid until all deferred fees which he is entitled to receive under the Plan shall have been paid to him (or, in case of his death, to his beneficiary).
4.3.
         
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, if a Director's service as a Director should terminate for any reason within five (5) years after the date of a Change in Control, the aggregate unpaid balance of such Director's deferred fees plus all unpaid interest credited thereon, shall be paid to such Director in a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of such termination.
4.4.
         
 
A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the following dates:
4.5.
         
 
the date any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (a) of paragraph (iii) below; or
(i)
           
 
the date the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or
(ii)
          
 
the date on which there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation or other entity, other than (a) a merger or consolidation (I) immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board of Directors immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if the Company or the entity surviving such merger or consolidation is then a
(iii)
         
 
subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof and (II) which results in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (b) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
 
the date the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by shareholders of the Company, in combination with the ownership of any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale.
(iv)
         
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a "Change in Control" shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of the Company immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Company immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.
 
For purposes of this Plan: "Affiliate" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act; "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act; "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and "Person" shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company.
 
A "Potential Change in Control" shall exist during any period in which the circumstances described in paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv), below, exist (provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):
4.6.
         
 
The Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control, provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (a) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination of all such agreements.
(i)
           
 
Any Person (without regard to the exclusions set forth in subsections (i) through (iv) of such definition) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (b) shall cease to exist upon the withdrawal of such intention, or upon a determination by the Board of Directors that there is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.
(ii)
          
 
Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 10% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates).
(iii)
         
 
The Board of Directors adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control exists; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in this paragraph (iv) shall cease to exist upon a determination by the Board of Directors that the reasons that gave rise to the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control have expired or no longer exist.
(iv)
         
 
The provisions of Paragraphs 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 and this Paragraph 4.7 may not be amended or deleted, nor superseded by any other provision of this Plan, (i) during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and (ii) during the period beginning on the date of a Change in Control and ending on the date five (5) years following such Change in Control.
4.7.
         
 
Effective April 30, 1998, each of the persons serving as a Director on December 12, 1997 shall be credited with a retirement benefit of $4,167 a month for 120 months of continuous service and no additional retirement benefits shall accrue under the Plan. Each of the persons serving as a Director on December 12, 1997 may elect: (a) to have his or her retirement benefit under the Plan treated as provided in Section 5.2 of the Plan; or (b) to have the present value of that retirement benefit credited to an unfunded phantom stock account and converted into phantom stock units based on the closing price of the Company's common stock on April 30, 1998, with those phantom stock units then being credited with the same cash and stock
5.1.
        
 
dividends, stock splits and other distributions and adjustments as are paid on the Company's common stock. The phantom stock units shall be payable to the Director in annual payments commencing on the first day of the calendar month next following the earlier of the Director's death or termination of service as a Director, in an amount determined by the closing price of the Company's common stock on the first business day preceding the payment date. Unless the retirement benefit is terminated, the annual benefit shall continue to be paid on the anniversary of the day on which the first such retirement benefit payment was made, until the benefit has been paid for ten years, or until the death of the Director or surviving spouse, if earlier. If a Director should die with such benefit still in effect, prior to receipt of all payments due hereunder, the annual benefit shall continue to be paid to the surviving spouse of such Director until all payments due hereunder have been made or until the death of the surviving spouse, if earlier.
 
Any person serving as a Director on December 12, 1997 who elects to have his or her retirement benefit paid pursuant to this Section 5.2 shall receive a monthly benefit equal to $4,167. Payment of the monthly benefit shall commence on the first day of the calendar month next following the earlier of the Director's death or termination of service as a Director. Unless the retirement benefit is terminated, the monthly benefit shall continue to be paid on the first day of each calendar month thereafter, until the benefit has been paid for one hundred and twenty (120) months, or until the death of the Director or surviving spouse, if earlier. If a Director should die with such benefit still in effect, prior to receipt of all payments due hereunder, the monthly benefit shall continue to the surviving spouse of such Director until all payments due hereunder have been made or until the death of the surviving spouse, if earlier.
5.2.
        
 
Directors who retired on or before December 12, 1997 will receive the form and amount of retirement benefit payable under the terms of the Plan in effect at the time of their retirement.
5.3.
        
 
Each Director who is granted a retirement benefit hereunder shall make him or herself available for such consultation with the Board of Directors or any committee or member thereof, as may be reasonably requested from time to time by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, following such Director's termination of service as a Director. The Company shall reimburse each such Director for all reasonable travel, lodging and subsistence expenses incurred by the Director at the request of the Company in rendering such consultation. The Company may terminate the retirement benefit if the Director should fail to render such consultation, unless prevented by disability or other reason beyond the Director's control.
5.4.
        
 
It is recognized that during a Director's period of service as a Director and as a consultant hereunder, a Director will acquire knowledge of the affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries, the disclosure of which would be contrary to the best interests of the Company. Accordingly, the Company may terminate the retirement benefit if, without the express consent of the Company, the Director accepts election to the Board of Directors of, acquires a partnership or proprietary interest in, or renders services as an employee or consultant to, any business entity which is engaged in substantial competition with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
5.5.
        
 
An individual will be considered a Director's "surviving spouse" for purposes of this Section 5 only if the Director and such individual were married in a religious or civil ceremony recognized under the laws of the state where the marriage was contracted and the marriage remained legally effective at the date of the Director's death.
5.6.
         
 
Any Director who is then serving as a director may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, elect to have all or any portion of deferred fees previously earned but not yet paid, transferred from the Director's Deferred Fee Account to a Stock Account maintained on his or her behalf pursuant to paragraph 9.3. Any election as to a portion of such fees shall be expressed as a percentage and the same percentage shall be applied to all such fees regardless of the calendar year in which earned or to all deferred fees earned in designated calendar years, as specified by the Director. A Director may make no more than one election under this paragraph 6.1 in any calendar year. All such elections may apply only to deferred fees for which an election has not previously been made and shall be irrevocable.
6.1.
         
 
Any Director may, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, elect to have all or any portion of deferred fees earned subsequent to the date such notice is filed credited to a Stock Account established under this Section 6. Fees covered by such election shall be credited to such account at the end of each calendar quarter in, or for which, such fees are earned. Such election may be revoked or modified by such Director, by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company, as to deferred fees to be earned in calendar years subsequent to the calendar year such notice is filed, but shall be irrevocable as to deferred fees earned prior to such year.
6.2.
         
 
Deferred fees credited to a Stock Account under paragraph 6.1 shall be converted to Common Stock Units by dividing the deferred fees so credited by the closing price of common shares of the Company on the date notice of election under paragraph 6.1 is received by the Company (or the next business day, if there are no sales on such date) as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System. Deferred fees credited to a Stock Account under paragraph 6.2 shall be converted to Common Stock Units by dividing the deferred fees so credited by the closing price of common shares of the Company as of the last business day of the calendar quarter for which the credit is made, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System.
6.3.
         
 
Each Common Stock Unit shall be credited with the same cash and stock dividends, stock splits and other distributions and adjustments as are received by one common share of the Company. All cash dividends and other cash distributions credited to Common Stock Units shall be converted to additional Common Stock Units by dividing each such dividend or distribution by the closing price of common shares of the Company on the payment date for such dividend or distribution, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System.
6.4.
         
 
The value of the Common Stock Units credited each Director shall be paid the Director in cash on the dates specified in paragraph 4.2 (or, if applicable, paragraph 4.4). The amount of each payment shall be determined by multiplying the Common Stock Units payable on each date specified in paragraph 4.2 (or, if applicable, paragraph 4.4) by the closing price of common shares of the Company on the day prior to that date (or the next preceding business day if there are no sales on such date), as reported by the New York Stock Exchange Composite Reporting System.
6.5.
         
 
Each Director or former Director entitled to payment of deferred fees hereunder, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any deferred Director's fees earned by him and payable to him are to be paid in case of his death before he receives any or all of such deferred Director's fees. Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same Director or former Director, shall be inform prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Director or former Director in writing with the Secretary of the Company during his lifetime. If a deceased Director or former Director shall have failed to name a beneficiary in the manner provided above, or if the beneficiary named by a deceased Director or former Director dies before him or before payment of all the Director's or former Director's deferred Directors' fees, the Company, in its discretion, may direct payment in a single sum of any remaining deferred Directors' fees to either:
7.1.
         
 
any one or more or all of the next of kin (including the surviving spouse) of the Director or former Director, and in such proportions as the Company determines; or
(a)
          
 
the legal representative or representatives of the estate of the last to die of the Director or former Director and his last surviving beneficiary.
(b)
          
 
The person or persons to whom any deceased Director's or former Director's deferred Directors' fees are payable under this paragraph will be referred to as his "beneficiary."
 
Establishment of the Plan and coverage thereunder of any person shall not be construed to confer any right on the part of such person to be nominated for reelection to the Board of Directors of the Company, or to be reelected to the Board of Directors.
7.2.
         
 
Payment of deferred Directors' fees will be made only to the person entitled thereto in accordance with the terms of the Plan, and deferred Directors' fees are not in any way subject to the debts or other obligations of persons entitled thereto, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred or assigned. When a person entitled to a payment under the Plan is under legal disability or, in the Company's opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his financial affairs, the Company may direct that payment be made to such person's legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for his benefit. Any payment made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be in complete discharge of the Company's obligation to make such payment under the Plan.
7.3.
         
 
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Company under the terms of the Plan shall be by affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors then in office.
7.4.
         
 
While the Company expects to continue the Plan, it must necessarily reserve, and does hereby reserve, the right to amend or discontinue the Plan at any time; provided, however, that any amendment or discontinuance of the Plan shall be prospective in operation only, and shall not affect the payment of any deferred Directors' fees theretofore earned by any Director, or the conditions under which any such fees are to be paid or forfeited under the Plan, unless the Director affected shall expressly consent thereto.
 
By written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company prior to calendar years beginning after December 31, 1988 (or, for the calendar year he first becomes a Director within 30 days of becoming a Director), a Director may elect to receive all or any portion of his deferred fees earned in such calendar years in a lump sum in accordance with the provisions of this Section 9. An election under this subsection 9.1 may be revoked or modified by the Director by written notice to the Secretary of the Company as to deferred fees earned under Section 3 in calendar years beginning after the calendar year in which he files such notice. Any amounts that were deferred for calendar years beginning before January 1, 1989 shall automatically be paid as provided in this Section 9.
9.1.
        
 
If payment of a Director's deferred fees is made pursuant to paragraph 9.1, a portion of such fees shall be paid in cash for the Director directly to a "Grantor Trust" established by the Director, provided such trust is in a form which the Company determines to be substantially similar to the trust attached to this plan as Exhibit A; and the balance of the deferred fees shall be paid in cash directly to the Director, provided that the payment made directly to the Director shall approximate the aggregate federal, state and local individual income taxes attributable to the deferred fees paid pursuant to this paragraph 9.2.
9.2.
        
 
The Company will establish and maintain four separate accounts in the name of each Director, "a Deferred Fee Account", a "Deferred Fee Trust Account", a "Stock Account" and a "Stock Trust Account". The Deferred Fee Account shall reflect the deferred fees and interest to be credited to a Director pursuant to Section 3. The Deferred Fee Trust Account shall reflect any deferred fees paid in cash to a Director (including amounts paid to a Director's Grantor Trust and allocated to the deferred account maintained thereunder) pursuant to paragraph 9.2 and any adjustments made pursuant to paragraph 9.4. The Stock Account shall reflect the deferred fees converted to Common Stock Units pursuant to Section 6 and any adjustments made pursuant to that Section. The Stock Trust Account shall reflect deferred fees that have been converted to Common Stock Units under Section 6 and paid in cash to a Director (including amounts paid to a Director's Grantor Trust and allocated to the stock account maintained
9.3.
        
 
thereunder) pursuant to paragraph 9.2 and any adjustments made pursuant to paragraph 9.5. The Accounts established pursuant to this paragraph 9.3 are for the convenience of the administration of the plan and no trust relationship with respect to such Accounts is intended or should be implied.
 
As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director's Deferred Fee Trust Account as follows:
9.4.
         
 
FIRST, charge an amount equal to the product of: (i) any payments made to the Director during that year from the deferred account maintained under his or her Grantor Trust (other than distributions of trust earnings in excess of the Net Interest Accrual authorized by the administrator of the trust to provide for the Tax Gross Up under paragraph 9.9 below); multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the Director's Deferred Fee Trust Account as of the end of the prior calendar year and the denominator of which is the balance in the deferred account maintained under the Director's Grantor Trust (as determined by the administrator of the trust) as of that same date;
(a)
          
 
NEXT, credit an amount equal to the deferred fees that have not been converted to Common Stock Units that are paid that year to the Director (including the amount paid to the Director's Grantor Trust and allocated to the deferred account maintained thereunder) pursuant to paragraph 9.2; and
(b)
          
 
FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the Interest Accrual earned for that year pursuant to paragraph 9.6.
(c)
          
 
As of the end of each calendar year, the Company shall adjust each Director's Stock Trust Account as follows:
9.5.
         
 
FIRST, charge an amount equal to the product of: (i) any payments made to the Director during that year from the stock account maintained under his or her Grantor Trust (other than distributions of trust earnings authorized by the administrator of the trust to provide for the Tax Gross Up under paragraph 9.9 below): multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the balance in the Director's Stock Trust Account as of the end of the prior calendar year and the denominator of which is the balance in the stock account maintained under the Director's Grantor Trust (as determined by the administrator of the trust) as of that same date;
(a)
          
 
NEXT, credit an amount equal to the deferred fees that have been converted to Common Stock Units that are paid that year to the Director (including the amount paid to the Director's Grantor Trust and allocated to the stock account maintained thereunder) pursuant to paragraph 9.2; and
(b)
          
 
FINALLY, credit an amount equal to the Book Value Adjustments to be made for that year pursuant to paragraph 9.6.
(c)
          
 
As of the end of each calendar year, a Director's Deferred Fee Trust Account shall be credited with interest at the rate described in paragraph 3.7. Any amount so credited shall be referred to as a Director's "Interest Accrual". As of that same date, a Director's Stock Trust Account shall be adjusted as provided in paragraph 6.4, and shall also be adjusted to reflect the increase or decrease in the fair market value of the Company's common stock determined in accordance with paragraph 6.5. Such adjustments shall be referred to as "Book Value Adjustments."
9.6.
         
 
In addition to any fees earned by a Director under Section 3 of this plan or paid under paragraphs 4.1 or 9.1 the Company shall also make a payment to a Director's Grantor Trust (a "Guaranteed Rate Payment"), to be credited to the deferred account maintained thereunder, for any year in which the net income credited to the deferred account maintained under such trust does not equal or exceed the Director's Net Interest Accrual for that year. A Director's "Net Interest Accrual" for a year is an amount equal to: (a) the Interest Accrual credited to the Director's Deferred Fee Trust Account for that year; less (b) the product of (i) the amount of such Interest Accrual, multiplied by (ii) the aggregate of the federal, state and local individual income tax rates (determined in accordance with paragraph 9.10). The Guaranteed Rate Payment shall equal the difference between the Director's Net Interest Accrual and the net income credited to the deferred account maintained under the Director's Grantor Trust for the year, and shall be paid within 90 days of the end of that year.
9.7.
         
 
The Company shall also make a payment to a Director's Grantor Trust (a "Guaranteed Principal Payment"), to be credited to the stock account maintained thereunder, to the extent that the balance in the stock account as of the end of any calendar year is less than 75 percent of the balance of the Director's Stock Trust Account (net of federal, state and local income taxes) as of that same date. For the calendar year in which the last installment distribution is made from the Director's Grantor Trust, the payment made under this paragraph 9.8 shall equal the amount, if any, needed to increase the fair market value of the stock account maintained under the Director's Grantor Trust; such that if a distribution of the stock account were then made to the Director, the Director would receive the same amount he or she would have received (net of federal, state and local income taxes) if his or her Stock Trust Account were to be distributed on that same date with the deferred fees that had been allocated to that Account taxed at the federal, state and local income tax rates in effect on the date the fees were credited to the Account and the balance of the Account taxed at the federal, state and local income tax rates in effect on the date of the distribution. Payments required under this paragraph 9.8 shall be made within 90 days of the end of the calendar year, except the last payment which shall be made not later than the due date of the last installment distribution from the Director's Grantor Trust.
9.8.
         
 
In addition to the fees provided under Section 3, each Director (or, if the Director is deceased, the beneficiary designated under the Director's Grantor Trust) shall be entitled to a Tax Gross Up payment for each year there is a balance in his or her Deferred Fee Trust Account or Stock Trust Account. The "Tax Gross Up" shall approximate: (a) the amount necessary to compensate the Director (or beneficiary) for the net increase in his or her federal, state and local income taxes as a result of the inclusion in the Director's (or beneficiary's) taxable income of the income of his or her Grantor Trust and any Guaranteed Rate and Guaranteed Principal Payments
9.9.
         
 
for that year; less (b) any distribution to the Director (or beneficiary) of his or her Grantor Trust's net earnings for that year; plus (c) an amount necessary to compensate the Director (or beneficiary) for the net increase in the taxes described in (a) above as a result of the inclusion in his or her taxable income of any payment made pursuant to this paragraph 9.9.
 
For purposes of this Section, a Director's federal income tax rate shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rate of federal individual income tax in effect in the calendar year in which a calculation under this Section is to be made and state and local tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal rates of individual income tax in effect in the state and locality of the Director's residence on the date such a calculation is made, net of any federal tax benefits. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a Director is not a citizen or resident of the United States, his or her income tax rates shall be deemed to be the highest marginal income tax rates actually imposed on the Director's benefits under this Plan or earnings under his or her Grantor Trust.
9.10.
       
 
If a Director's deferred fees have been paid to a Grantor Trust(s) pursuant to paragraph 9.2, then at any time (and from time to time) prior to the Director's retirement the Director may elect to have those deferred fees paid to him or her from the Grantor Trust(s) either:
9.11.
       
 
in the order in which they were earned (i.e., the fees for the earliest year of service as a Director will be the first fees distributed from the Grantor Trust(s), the fees for the next earliest year of service as a Director will be paid on the anniversary of the payment of the first installment, etc.), or
(i)
           
 
in reverse chronological order from the order in which they were earned (i.e., the fees for the Director's last year of service as a Director will be the first fees distributed from the Grantor Trust(s), the fees for the penultimate year of service as a Director will be paid on the anniversary of the payment of the first installment, etc.).
(ii)
          
 
If a Director fails to elect a manner of payment for his or her deferred fees, then those deferred fees will be paid to the Director in the order in which they were earned. The date on which payments commence and the other terms governing distributions from the Grantor Trust(s) shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the Grantor Trust(s). A Director's deferred fees shall continue to be paid until all deferred fees to which the Director is entitled to receive under the Plan shall have been paid in accordance with the terms of the Grantor Trust(s).
 
Exhibit A
 
and between                                     of                     ,                   (the"grantor"), and The Northern Trust Company located at Chicago, Illinois, as trustee (the "trustee"),
THIS RESTATED AGREEMENT, made this                day of                           , 2002, by
 
Trust", dated                    , to hold certain benefits received by the grantor under the Abbott Laboratories Non-Employee Directors' Fee Plan, as it may be amended from time to time; and
WHEREAS, the grantor has established a trust known as the "                            Grantor
 
WHEREAS, the grantor, with the consent of the administrator of the referenced trust, desires to amend the agreement creating the referenced trust ("trust agreement") in many respects and believes the trust agreement, as so amended, would be easier to understand if restated.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the grantor amends the trust agreement by substituting for it and all prior amendments the following provisions which set forth all of the terms and conditions relating to the administration, investment and distribution of the trust property after this date:
 
. This agreement and the trust hereby evidenced (the "trust") may be referred to as the "                                                    Grantor Trust."
I-1.
         
Name
 
. The "trust fund" as at any date means all property then held by the trustee under this agreement.
I-2.
         
The Trust Fund
 
.  The trust shall be irrevocable. The trust is intended to constitute a grantor trust under Sections 671-678 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and shall be construed accordingly.
I-3.
         
Status of the Trust
 
.  Abbott Laboratories ("Abbott") shall act as the "administrator" of the trust, and as such shall have certain powers, rights and duties under this agreement as described below. Abbott will certify to the trustee from time to time the person or persons authorized to act on behalf of Abbott as the administrator. The trustee may rely on the latest certificate received without further inquiry or verification.
I-4.
         
The Administrator
 
.  The trustee accepts the duties and obligations of the "trustee" hereunder, agrees to accept funds delivered to it by the grantor or the administrator, and agrees to hold such funds (and any proceeds from the investment of such funds) in trust in accordance with this agreement.
I-5.
         
Acceptance
 
.  The administrator shall maintain two separate accounts under the trust, a "deferred account" and a "stock account." Funds delivered to the trustee shall be allocated between the accounts by the trustee as directed by the administrator. As of the end of each calendar year, the administrator shall charge each account with all distributions made from such account during that year; and credit each account with its share of income and realized gains and charge each account with its share of expenses and realized losses for the year. The trustee shall be required to make separate investments of the trust fund for the accounts, and may not administer and invest all funds delivered to it under the trust as one trust fund.
II-1.
        
Separate Accounts
 
Principal and accumulated income shall not be distributed from the trust prior to the grantor's termination of service as a Director of Abbott (the grantor's "settlement date"); provided that, each year the administrator may direct the trustee to distribute to the grantor a portion of the income of the trust fund for that year, with the balance of such income to be accumulated in the trust. The administrator shall inform the trustee of the grantor's settlement date. Thereafter, the trustee shall distribute the trust fund to the grantor, if then living, in a series of annual installments, commencing on the first day of the month next following the later of the grantor's settlement date or the date the grantor attains age 65 years. The administrator shall inform the trustee of the number of installment distributions and the amount of each installment distribution under this paragraph II-2, and the trustee shall be fully protected in relying on such information received from the administrator.
II-2.
        
Distributions Prior to the Grantor's Death.
 
.  The grantor, from time to time may name any person or persons (who may be named contingently or successively and who may be natural persons or fiduciaries) to whom the principal of the trust fund and all accrued or undistributed income thereof shall be distributed in a lump sum or, if the beneficiary is the grantor's spouse (or a trust for which the grantor's spouse is the sole income beneficiary), in installments, as directed by the grantor, upon the grantor's death. If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to the spouse as beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse beneficiary shall be distributed in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the spouse beneficiary's estate. If the grantor directs an installment method of distribution to a trust for which the grantor's spouse is the sole income beneficiary, any amounts remaining at the death of the spouse shall be distributed in a lump sum to such trust. Despite the foregoing, if (i) the beneficiary is a trust for which the grantor's spouse is the sole income beneficiary, (ii) payments are being made pursuant to this paragraph II-3 other than in a lump sum and (iii) income earned by the trust fund for the year exceeds the amount of the annual installment payment, then such trust may elect to withdraw such excess income by written notice to the trustee. Each designation shall revoke all prior designations, shall be in writing and shall be effective only when filed by the grantor with the administrator during the grantor's lifetime. If the grantor fails to direct a method of distribution, the distribution shall be made in a lump sum. If the grantor fails to designate a beneficiary as provided above, then on the grantor's death, the trustee shall distribute the balance of the trust fund in a lump sum to the executor or administrator of the grantor's estate.
II-3.
       
Distributions After the Grantor's Death
 
.  When a person entitled to a distribution hereunder is under legal disability, or, in the trustee's opinion, is in any way incapacitated so as to be unable to manage his or her financial affairs, the trustee may make such distribution to such person's legal representative, or to a relative or friend of such person for such person's benefit. Any distribution made in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be a full and complete discharge of any liability for such distribution hereunder.
II-4.
        
Facility of Payment
 
.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, on the day next preceding the end of 21 years after the death of the last to die of the grantor and the grantor's descendants living on the date of this instrument, the trustee shall immediately distribute any remaining balance in the trust to the beneficiaries then entitled to distributions hereunder.
II-5.
        
Perpetuities
 
. The trustee shall, with respect to the trust fund, have the following powers, rights and duties in addition to those provided elsewhere in this agreement or by law:
III-1.
      
General Powers
 
Subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) next below, to sell, contract to sell, purchase, grant or exercise options to purchase, and otherwise deal with all assets of the trust fund, in such way, for such considerations, and on such terms and conditions as the trustee decides.
(a)
          
 
To retain in cash such amounts as the trustee considers advisable; and to invest and reinvest the balance of the trust fund, without distinction between principal and income, in common stock of Abbott Laboratories, or in obligations of the United States Government and its agencies or which are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government or in any mutual fund, common trust fund or collective investment fund which invests solely in such obligations; and any such investment made or retained by the trustee in good faith shall be proper despite any resulting risk or lack of diversification or marketability.
(b)
          
 
To deposit cash in any depositary (including the banking department of the bank acting as trustee) without liability for interest, and to invest cash in savings accounts or time certificates of deposit bearing a reasonable rate of interest in any such depositary.
(c)
          
 
To invest, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (b) above, in any common or commingled trust fund or funds maintained or administered by the trustee solely for the investment of trust funds.
(d)
          
 
To borrow from anyone, with the administrator's approval, such sum or sums from time to time as the trustee considers desirable to carry out this trust, and to mortgage or pledge all or part of the trust fund as security.
(e)
          
 
To retain any funds or property subject to any dispute without liability for interest and to decline to make payment or delivery thereof until final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction or until an appropriate release is obtained.
(f)
           
 
To begin, maintain or defend any litigation necessary in connection with the administration of this trust, except that the trustee shall not be obliged or required to do so unless indemnified to the trustee's satisfaction.
(g)
          
 
To compromise, contest, settle or abandon claims or demands.
(h)
          
 
To give proxies to vote stocks and other voting securities, to join in or oppose (alone or jointly with others) voting trusts, mergers, consolidations, foreclosures, reorganizations, liquidations, or other changes in the financial structure of any corporation, and to exercise or sell stock subscription or conversion rights.
(i)
           
 
To hold securities or other property in the name of a nominee, in a depositary, or in any other way, with or without disclosing the trust relationship.
(j)
           
 
To divide or distribute the trust fund in undivided interests or wholly or partly in kind.
(k)
          
 
To pay any tax imposed on or with respect to the trust; to defer making payment of any such tax if it is indemnified to its satisfaction in the premises; and to require before making any payment such release or other document from any lawful taxing authority and such indemnity from the intended payee as the trustee considers necessary for its Protection.
(1)
          
 
To deal without restriction with the legal representative of the grantor's estate or the trustee or other legal representative of any trust created by the grantor or a trust or estate in which a beneficiary has an interest, even though the trustee, individually, shall be acting in such other capacity, without liability for any loss that may result.
(m)
         
 
To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank or corporation qualified to act as successor trustee, wherever located, as special trustee as to part or all of the trust fund, including property as to which the trustee does not act, and such special trustee, except as specifically limited or provided by this or the appointing instrument, shall have all of the rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities of the trustee, without liability for any action taken or omitted to be taken under this or the appointing instrument.
(n)
          
 
To appoint or remove by written instrument any bank, wherever located, as custodian of part or all of the trust fund, and each such custodian shall have such rights, powers, duties and discretions as are delegated to it by the trustee.
(o)
          
 
To employ agents, attorneys, accountants or other persons, and to delegate to them such powers as the trustee considers desirable, and the trustee shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting on the advice of persons so employed without court action.
(p)
          
 
To perform any and all other acts which in the trustee's judgment are appropriate for the proper management, investment and distribution of the trust fund.
(q)
          
 
.  Any income earned on the trust fund, which is not distributed as provided in Article II shall be accumulated and from time to time added to the principal of the trust. The grantor's interest in the trust shall include all assets or other property held by the trustee hereunder, including principal and accumulated income.
III-2.
       
Principal and Income
 
.  The trustee shall prepare and deliver monthly to the administrator and annually to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to distributions under this agreement, a statement (or series of statements) setting forth (or which taken together set forth) all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by the trustee during the reporting period; and showing the trust fund and the value thereof at the end of such period.
III-3.
       
Statements
 
.  All reasonable costs, charges and expenses incurred in the administration of this trust, including compensation to the trustee, any compensation to agents, attorneys, accountants and other persons employed by the trustee, and expenses incurred in connection with the sale, investment and reinvestment of the trust fund shall be paid from the trust fund.
III-4.
       
Compensation and Expenses
 
.  The interests of the grantor or other persons entitled to distributions hereunder are not subject to their debts or other obligations and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or encumbered.
IV-1.
      
Interests Not Transferable
 
.  If there is a disagreement between the trustee and anyone as to any act or transaction reported in any accounting, the trustee shall have the right to a settlement of its account by any proper court.
IV-2.
      
Disagreement as to Acts
 
.  No power, duty or responsibility is imposed on the trustee except as set forth in this agreement. The trustee is not obliged to determine whether funds delivered to or distributions from the trust are proper under the trust, or whether any tax is due or payable as a result of any such delivery or distribution. The trustee shall be protected in making any distribution from the trust as directed pursuant to Article II without inquiring as to whether the distributee is entitled thereto; and the trustee shall not be liable for any distribution made in good faith without written notice or knowledge that the distribution is not proper under the terms of this agreement.
IV-3.
      
Trustee's Obligations
 
.  The trustee's exercise or non-exercise of its powers and discretions in good faith shall be conclusive on all persons. No one shall be obliged to see to the application of any money paid or property delivered to the trustee. The certificate of the trustee that it is acting according to this agreement will fully protect all persons dealing with the trustee.
IV-4.
      
Good Faith Actions
 
.  Any notice required under this agreement may be waived by the person entitled to such notice.
IV-5.
       
Waiver of Notice
 
.  The laws of the State of Illinois shall govern the interpretation and validity of the provisions of this agreement and all questions relating to the management, administration, investment and distribution of the trust hereby created.
IV-6.
      
Controlling Law
 
. This agreement shall be binding on all persons entitled to distributions hereunder and their respective heirs and legal representatives, and on the trustee and its successors.
IV-7.
       
Successors
 
. The trustee may resign at any time by giving thirty days' advance written notice to the administrator and the grantor. The administrator may remove a trustee by written notice to the trustee and the grantor.
V-l.
         
Resignation or Removal of Trustee
 
. The administrator shall fill any vacancy in the office of trustee as soon as practicable by written notice to the successor trustee; and shall give prompt written notice thereof to the grantor, if then living, otherwise to each beneficiary then entitled to payments or distributions under this agreement. A successor trustee shall be a bank (as defined in Section 581 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended).
V-2.
        
Appointment of Successor Trustee
 
. A trustee that resigns or is removed shall furnish promptly to the administrator and the successor trustee an account of its administration of the trust from the date of its last account. Each successor trustee shall succeed to the title to the trust fund vested in its predecessor without the signing or filing of any instrument, but each predecessor trustee shall execute all documents and do all acts necessary to vest such title of record in the successor trustee. Each successor trustee shall have all the powers conferred by this agreement as if originally named trustee. No successor trustee shall be personally liable for any act or failure to act of a predecessor trustee. With the approval of the administrator, a successor trustee may accept the account furnished and the property delivered by a predecessor trustee without incurring any liability for so doing, and such acceptance will be complete discharge to the predecessor trustee.
V-3.
        
Duties of Resigning or Removed Trustee and of Successor Trustee
 
.  With the consent of the administrator, this trust may be amended from time to time by the grantor, if then living, otherwise by a majority of the beneficiaries then entitled to payments or distributions hereunder, except as follows:
VI-1.
      
Amendment
 
The duties and liabilities of the trustee cannot be changed substantially without its consent.
(a)
          
 
This trust may not be amended so as to make the trust revocable.
(b)
          
 
.  This trust shall not terminate, and all rights, titles, powers, duties, discretions and immunities imposed on or reserved to the trustee, the administrator, the grantor and the beneficiaries shall continue in effect, until all assets of the trust have been distributed by the trustee as provided in Article II.
VI-2.
       
Termination
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the grantor has executed this amending instrument as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
The undersigned, as trustee, acknowledges receipt of the foregoing amending instrument as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
The undersigned, as a duly authorized representative of the administrator of the trust, hereby consents to the foregoing amending instrument as of the day and year first above written.
 


