FILE:ABT/ABT-8K-20090121083911.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 21, 2009, Abbott Laboratories announced its results of operations for the fourth quarter and full year 2008.
 
Furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference, is the news release issued by Abbott announcing those results.  In that news release, Abbott uses various non-GAAP financial measures including, among others:  net earnings excluding specified items and diluted earnings per common share excluding specified items.  These non-GAAP financial measures adjust for factors that are unusual or unpredictable, such as acquisition-related costs, cost reduction initiatives, litigation settlements, acquired in-process research and development and gains and losses related to certain investments.  Abbott's management believes the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Abbott's results of operations as these non-GAAP financial measures allow investors to better evaluate ongoing business performance.  Abbott's management also uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to monitor performance of the businesses.  Abbott, however, cautions investors to consider these non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
The following is a summary of fourth-quarter 2008 sales.
 
 
Note:See "Consolidated Statement of Earnings" for more information.
 
The following is a summary of sales for the full-year 2008.
 
 
Note:  See "Consolidated Statement of Earnings" for more information.
 
The following is a summary of Abbott's fourth-quarter 2008 sales for selected products.
 
 
n/m = Not meaningful
The following is a summary of Abbott's full-year 2008 sales for selected products.
 
 
 
n/m = Not meaningful
 
Business Highlights
 
Abbott announced an agreement to acquire AMO, an established global leader in the large and growing eye care market. This acquisition strengthens and expands Abbott's current medical device business, providing further diversification for the long term. AMO participates in three segments: cataract surgery, refractive surgery, or LASIK laser vision correction, and eye care products, such as contact lens solutions. AMO holds the number-one market position in LASIK, the number-two position in cataract surgery and the number-three position in eye care products. The ophthalmology market is supported by strong demographic trends, including a large population of people 60 years of age and older, and increased demand for advanced vision care procedures and products.
                         
Abbott to Acquire Advanced Medical Optics (AMO)
 
The U.S. FDA approved Abbott's TRILIPIX (fenofibric acid), the first fibrate to be approved for use in combination with a statin. The FDA approval of TRILIPIX was based on the largest clinical trial program designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a fibrate in combination with various statins.
                         
Abbott Receives FDA Approval for TRILIPIX
 
 
Abbott beganSPIRIT Small Vessel, a clinical trial evaluating a 2.25 mm size of the XIENCE V Everolimus Eluting Coronary Stent System. The 2.25 mm stent system, to be called Xience Nano in the United States upon FDA approval, would offer physicians an option for treating coronary artery disease in narrower vessels that is based on the proven efficacy, safety and deliverability of XIENCE V. Last year, the XIENCE V 2.25 mm stent system received CE Mark approval and was launched in various countries in Europe, Asia and Latin America.
                         
Abbott Begins U.S. Study of XIENCE V
 Designed for Small Vessels 
 
Presented new HUMIRA data demonstrating half of patients with moderate to severe early rheumatoid arthritis (RA) showed no progression of joint damage at five years. These results were seen in patients who initially received HUMIRA in combination with methotrexate (MTX) for two years and continued on HUMIRA for an additional three years in an open-label extension study. Five-year results of the PREMIER study found that patients with early RA achieved the best results with an initial combination of HUMIRA and methotrexate.
                         
HUMIRA
 May Help Prevent Further Joint Damage For Up To Five Years 
 
Presented new HUMIRA data in the long-term treatment of fistulas, with more than half of patients with moderate to severe Crohn's disease experiencing fistula healing at three years. Data also showed response to HUMIRA in difficult-to-treat patients  those with fistulas who had failed to respond, lost response to, or were intolerant of infliximab.
                         
HUMIRA Demonstrates Fistula Healing for Up to Three Years in Crohn's Patients 
 
Presented results from a new meta-analysis of XIENCE V drug-eluting stent clinical trials, SPIRIT II and SPIRIT III, which showed XIENCE V outperformed Boston Scientific's TAXUS in key efficacy and safety endpoints out to two years. We also presented new two-year data from our ABSORB trial, which demonstrated that our bioabsorbable drug-eluting stent successfully treated coronary artery disease and absorbed within two years.
                         
TCT Data Presentations 
 
Abbott completed the purchase of the remaining equity ownership in IBIS Biosciences, Inc.
                         
Abbott Exercises Its Option to Acquire IBIS Biosciences 
 
Abbott confirms double-digit earnings-per-share growth outlook for 2009
 
Abbott is confirming previously issued earnings-per-share guidance for the full-year 2009 of $3.65 to $3.70 under both Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and on a non-GAAP, or adjusted basis. The midpoint of this 2009 guidance range reflects double-digit growth over 2008 earnings per share.
 
Abbott declares quarterly dividend; double-digit increase over prior year
 
On Dec. 12, 2008, the board of directors of Abbott declared the company's quarterly common dividend of 36 cents per share, a 10.8 percent increase over the prior year. The cash dividend is payable Feb. 15, 2009, to shareholders of record at the close of business on Jan. 15, 2009. This marks the 340
th
 consecutive dividend paid by Abbott since 1924.
 
About Abbott
 
Abbott is a global, broad-based health care company devoted to the discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceuticals and medical products, including nutritionals, devices and diagnostics. The company employs more than 68,000 people and markets its products in more than 130 countries.
 
Abbott's news releases and other information are available on the company's Web site at www.abbott.com. Abbott will webcast its live fourth-quarter earnings conference call through its Investor Relations Web site at www.abbottinvestor.com at 8 a.m. Central time today. An archived edition of the call will be available after 11 a.m. Central time.
 
Some statements in this news release may be forward-looking statements for the purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We caution that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," to our Annual Report on Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2007, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," to Abbott's Quarterly Report on Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 and in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," to Abbott's Quarterly Report on Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, and are incorporated by reference.  Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of subsequent events or developments
 
 
1) Other (income) expense, net, in 2008 includes primarily ongoing contractual payments from Takeda associated with the conclusion of the TAP joint venture. Other (income) expense, net, in 2007 is primarily associated with Abbott's ownership of Boston Scientific stock.
 
2) Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax, reflects the after-tax gain on the sale of the spine business, which closed during the quarter. This gain has been treated as a specified item and excluded from ongoing earnings as noted below.
 
3) 2008 Net Earnings Excluding Specified Items excludes after-tax charges of $183 million, or $0.12 per share, for previously announced litigation settlements related to TriCor and $83 million, or $0.05 per share, for cost reduction initiatives, acquisition integration and other, including actions to improve efficiencies in the core diagnostic business.  These charges were partially offset by an after-tax gain of $147 million, or $0.09 per share, related to the sale of the spine business.
 
   2007 Net Earnings Excluding Specified Items excludes after-tax charges of $42 million, or $0.03 per share, for acquisition integration, $34 million, or $0.02 per share, for fair-value loss adjustments related to Boston Scientific stock, $26 million, or $0.02, for write-down of Omnicef inventory and $148 million, or $0.09 per share, for cost reduction initiatives and other. 
 
NOTE: See attached questions and answers section for further explanation of Consolidated Statement of Earnings line items.
 
n/m = Percent change is not meaningful.
 
 
1) Other (income) expense, net, in 2008 includes a gain of $94 million in connection with the closing of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture transaction and gains of $63 million from the sale of equity investments in Millennium Pharmaceuticals and Boston Scientific. These items have been treated as specified items. The remainder of Other (income) expense, net, is primarily related to ongoing contractual payments from Takeda associated with the conclusion of the TAP joint venture. Other (income) expense, net, in 2007 is primarily associated with Abbott's ownership of Boston Scientific stock.
 
2) Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax, reflects the after-tax gain on the sale of the spine business, which closed during the fourth quarter. This gain has been treated as a specified item and excluded from ongoing earnings as noted below.
 
3) 2008 Net Earnings Excluding Specified Items excludes a tax-free gain of $94 million, or $0.06 per share, recorded on the closing of the TAP joint venture transaction, a reduction in income taxes of $30 million, or $0.02 per share, relating to the settlement of an IRS audit, an after-tax gain of $49 million, or $0.03 per share, relating to sales of equity investments in Millennium Pharmaceuticals and Boston Scientific, and an after-tax gain of $147 million, or $0.09 per share, related to the sale of the spine business. These items were offset by after-tax charges of $76 million, or $0.05 per share, for acquired in-process research and development relating to technology investments, $283 million, or $0.18 per share, for cost reduction initiatives, $183 million, or $0.12 per share, for previously announced litigation settlements related to TriCor and $84 million, or $0.05 per share, for acquisition integration, TAP separation and other.
 
   2007 Net Earnings Excluding Specified Items excludes after-tax charges of $206 million, or $0.13 per share, for acquisition integration, $92 million, or $0.06 per share, for a contract termination, $75 million, or $0.05 per share, for fair-value loss adjustments, net of realized gains, related to Boston Scientific stock, $60 million, or $0.04 per share, for write-down of Omnicef inventory, $17 million, or $0.01 per share, for transaction and separation costs relating to the terminated sale of the core laboratory diagnostics business, and $373 million, or $0.24 per share, for cost reduction initiatives and other.
 
NOTE: See attached questions and answers section for further explanation of Consolidated Statement of Earnings line items.
 
n/m = Percent change is not meaningful.
 
Q1)
                          
What drove the 9.8 percent increase in global pharmaceutical sales in the quarter?
 
U.S. pharmaceutical sales increased 10.2 percent, reflecting double-digit growth for HUMIRA, Niaspan, Ultane and the TriCor/TRILIPIX franchise. U.S. HUMIRA sales increased more than 40 percent, as strong market demand continued across the three major market segments of rheumatology, gastroenterology and dermatology.
A1)
                           
 
's lipid franchise performed well, with growth outpacing the overall cholesterol market as both Niaspan and the TriCor/TRILIPIX franchise achieved double-digit growth. Niaspan increased 23.8 percent with sales of $221 million. TriCor/TRILIPIX franchise sales increased 16.0 percent with sales of $455 million, including the launch of TRILIPIX.
Also in the quarter, Abbott
 
International pharmaceutical sales increased 9.5 percent, including a 5.9 percent negative impact from exchange. International growth was driven by HUMIRA, which increased more than 40 percent, and was up nearly 50 percent excluding the negative impact of foreign exchange, consistent with the performance in previous quarters. Kaletra sales also contributed to growth in the quarter, driven by continued success of the tablet launch in international markets.
 
Q2)
                          
What drove the 15.6 percent increase in global medical products sales and strong global nutritional products sales?
 
Medical products sales increased 15.6 percent, reflecting 58.9 percent growth in worldwide vascular. In the diagnostic segment, the molecular business delivered continued double-digit sales growth.
A2)
                           
 
, up more than 15 percentage points from late 2007.
The substantial increase in vascular sales was due to the U.S. approval and successful launch of XIENCE V that began in July 2008. XIENCE V is now the market-leading DES in the U.S. and Europe. We have seen continued steady improvement in the U.S. DES market, with DES penetration in the mid-70s
Abbott Vascular achieved record sales of $663 million, driven by drug-eluting stent (DES) franchise sales of $332 million.
 
Worldwide nutritional products sales increased 11 percent, led by 15.6 percent growth in international nutritionals, including a 2.9 percent negative impact from exchange. This reflects continued strong growth in key emerging markets, including Latin America and Asia, where Abbott is opening a new 500,000 square foot state-of-the-art nutritionals manufacturing facility in Singapore in the first quarter. U.S. nutritional sales increased nearly 7 percent, driven primarily by the successful launch of improved formulations of infant nutritionals.
Q3)
                         
How did specified items affect reported results?
 
A3)
                          
Specified items impacted fourth-quarter results as follows:
 
 
Litigation settlements relate to previously announced TriCor litigation that was resolved during the fourth quarter. Cost reduction initiatives includes previously announced actions to improve efficiencies, including efforts in the core diagnostic business. These charges were partially offset by a gain resulting from the sale of the spine business, which closed in the fourth quarter.
 
The pre-tax impact of specified items by Consolidated Statement of Earnings line item is as follows (dollars in millions):
 
 
Q4)
                         
What drove the investment spending in the quarter?
 
A4)
                           
Combined investment in R&D and SG&A was up 14.3 percent, excluding specified items, and 19.2 percent on a reported basis. Higher-than-expected growth in SG&A included new and ongoing promotional initiatives across multiple businesses, including spending to support the nine new product approvals in 2008. This accelerated level of investment will support continued growth in 2009. Growth in R&D expense reflected continued investment in our broad-based pipeline, including early-to mid-stage opportunities across a number of therapeutic areas, such as oncology, immunology,
hepatitis C
, neuroscience and vascular devices.
Q5)
                          
How does the fourth-quarter gross margin ratio compare to the company's guidance?
 
A5)
                           
The gross margin ratio before and after specified items is shown below (dollars in millions):
 
 
The adjusted gross margin ratio was 60.9 percent, above our previous forecast, reflecting improved product mix and a favorable impact of foreign exchange on the ratio.
 
Q6)
                          
What was the tax rate in the quarter?
 
A6)
                           
The tax rate this quarter, excluding specified items, was 17.8 percent. The tax rate for the full-year 2008, excluding specified items, was 20.0 percent, consistent with our previous guidance for the full year. As a reminder, the fourth-quarter tax rate included the full-year benefit of the U.S. R&D tax credit since it was enacted retroactively to the beginning of the year during the fourth quarter. The tax rate in the fourth quarter is expected to continue at approximately the same level into 2009. The reported tax rate is reconciled to the ongoing rate below:
 
 
Q7)
                          
What are some near-term opportunities from Abbott's broad-based pipeline?
 
Abbott's late-stage pipeline generated nine new regulatory approvals in 2008. Many of these products are in the early stages of launch. Highlights of the near-term opportunities include:
A7)
                           
 
                 
HUMIRA
    Psoriasis  Launched in Europe and the U.S. in 2008.
    RA Japan  Launched in 2008.
    Psoriasis Japan  Indication filed, under regulatory review.
    Ulcerative colitis  Currently in Phase III development.
 
 Received fourth-quarter approval of TRILIPIX, Abbott's next-generation fenofibrate. To support TRILIPIX, Abbott executed the largest clinical program to date to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a fibrate in combination with statins. Development continues on a fixed-dose combination of TRILIPIX and CRESTOR to address all three lipid parameters in a single pill. We plan to submit a New Drug Application for this fixed-dose combination in the second half of this year.
                 
TRILIPIX
 
 Flutiform, a combination asthma treatment in Phase III development, is targeted for an NDA filing in the first quarter of 2009.
                 
Flutiform
 
 In Immunology, Abbott's anti-IL-12/23 biologic, ABT-874, has demonstrated promising results in early studies for psoriasis and is also being explored as a treatment for Crohn's disease. ABT-874 is currently in Phase III development for psoriasis.
                 
ABT-874
 
 The FreeStyle Freedom Lite no-calibration meter was launched in the United States in 2008. Abbott's FreeStyle Navigator Continuous Glucose Monitoring System was also approved and launched in the United States in the first quarter of 2008.
                 
Diabetes Care Pipeline
 
 In June 2008, Abbott submitted a marketing authorization license application in Japan to gain approval for XIENCE V to treat coronary artery disease. The application for XIENCE V consisted of safety and efficacy data from the SPIRIT III clinical trial, including data from a Japanese patient population. Abbott also expects to launch its next-generation XIENCE V DES in Europe in 2009.
                 
XIENCE V 
 
 In April 2008, Abbott introduced the ARCHITECT 1000SR immunochemistry analyzer in the United States, expanding its ARCHITECT family of diagnostic instrument systems for clinical laboratories. In 2009, we plan to introduce the ARCHITECT 4000, a clinical chemistry analyzer designed for small-to-medium-sized labs. The 4000 is compatible with the 1000, which will allow seamless integration of clinical chemistry and immunoassay testing on one platform.
                 
Core Laboratory Diagnostics
i
c
c
i
Q8)
                          
What are some early- and mid-stage opportunities in Abbott's broad-based pipeline?
 
A8)
                           
With the recent productivity of the late-stage pipeline, Abbott is now focused on advancing leading-edge scientific discoveries from its early-to mid-stage development pipeline across the company, where we continue to advance a number of compounds with breakthrough potential.
 
Our pharmaceutical pipeline has increased in size, novelty and number of phase transitions. In 2008, Phase I or Phase II trial initiations are nearly double 2007 levels. We continue to focus our investment to discover new treatments across a spectrum of therapeutic areas. Select highlights include:
 
 
                 
Oncology
Abbott's oncology pipeline includes targeted therapies that represent promising, unique scientific approaches to treating cancer. Our collaboration with Genentech to develop two Abbott-discovered compounds continues to progress.  These compounds include ABT-869, a multi-targeted kinase inhibitor and ABT-263, a Bcl-2 family protein antagonist.
                 
Abbott's oncology research also includes a PARP-inhibitor, which prevents DNA repair in cancer cells, enhancing the effectiveness of current cancer therapies.
                 
 
                 
Neuroscience
Abbott is conducting innovative research in neuroscience, where we've developed compounds that target receptors in the brain that help regulate mood, memory and other neurological functions to address conditions such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. Abbott is also working to advance compounds that have the potential to meet the market need for a non-opioid pain therapy. Our work in neuroscience is focused on several promising investigational platforms including NNRs, H3, Calpain and TRPV1, among others.
                 
 
                 
Immunology
Abbott's scientific experience with the anti-TNF biologic HUMIRA serves as a strong foundation for our continuing research in immunology. Products in development for the treatment of immune-mediated diseases are designed to selectively inhibit proteins that are responsible for inflammation. In addition to our work with IL-12/23, we are working to advance development of our early discovery programs, including oral therapies, as well as other potential biologic targets.
                 
Additionally, our proprietary DVD-ig technology represents an innovative approach that can target multiple disease-causing antigens with a single biologic agent.
                 
 
                 
Hepatitis C
Abbott's antiviral program is focused on the treatment of hepatitis C, a disease that affects more than 170 million people worldwide. Abbott has several active hepatitis C programs including our partnership with Enanta Pharmaceuticals to develop protease inhibitors as well as an internal polymerase program.
                 
 
                 
Bioabsorbable Drug-Eluting Stent
                 
Abbott has presented encouraging two-year data from the world's first clinical trial for a fully-bioabsorbable DES to treat coronary artery disease. The bioabsorbable DES is designed to be slowly metabolized by the body and completely absorbed over time.


