FILE:ABT/ABT-8K-20100127083744.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
On January 27, 2010, Abbott Laboratories announced its results of operations for the fourth quarter and full year 2009.
 
Furnished as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference, is the news release issued by Abbott announcing those results.  In that news release, Abbott uses various non-GAAP financial measures including, among others: net earnings excluding specified items and diluted earnings per common share excluding specified items.  These non-GAAP financial measures adjust for factors that are unusual or unpredictable, such as acquisition-related costs, cost reduction initiatives, litigation and tax settlements, product launch costs, acquired in-process research and development and gains and losses related to certain investments.  Abbott's management believes the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Abbott's results of operations as these non-GAAP financial measures allow investors to better evaluate ongoing business performance.  Abbott's management also uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to monitor performance of the businesses.  Abbott, however, cautions investors to consider these non-GAAP financial measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
The following is a summary of fourth-quarter 2009 sales.
 
 
Note:See "Consolidated Statement of Earnings" for more information.
 
 
(a)
Sales comparison reflects the expected impact of generic Depakote competition. See Q&A Answer 1 for further discussion.
 
 
(b)
Includes the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, which closed on Feb. 25, 2009.
 
The following is a summary of full-year 2009 sales.
 
 
Note:See "Consolidated Statement of Earnings" for more information.
 
 
(a)
Sales comparison reflects the expected impact of generic Depakote competition.
 
 
(b)
Includes the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, which closed on Feb. 25, 2009.
 
The following summarizes the impact of foreign exchange on global sales for selected products.
 
 
(a) Sales comparison reflects the expected impact of generic Depakote competition.
 
 
n/m = Not meaningful
 
The following is a summary of Abbott's fourth-quarter 2009 sales for selected products.
 
 
(a)
Reflects comparison to prior year when sales increased 42.4 percent.
 
 
(b)
Sales comparison reflects the expected impact of generic Depakote competition.
 
 
n/m = Not meaningful
 
The following summarizes the impact of foreign exchange on global sales for selected products.
 
 
(a) Sales comparison reflects the expected impact of generic Depakote competition.
 
 
n/m = Not meaningful
The following is a summary of Abbott's full-year 2009 sales for selected products.
 
 
(a) Sales comparison reflects the expected impact of generic Depakote competition.
 
 
n/m = Not meaningful
Business Highlights
 
                 
Completed Acquisitions of Evalve, Inc. and Visiogen, Inc.
Completed the acquisition of Evalve, Inc., the global leader in the development of devices for minimally invasive repair of mitral valves. In addition, completed the acquisition of privately-held eye care company, Visiogen, Inc., expanding our vision care business with a next-generation accommodating intraocular lens (IOL) technology to address presbyopia for cataract patients.
 
                 
Acquired Novel Biologic to Treat Chronic Pain
We completed the acquisition of global rights to PanGenetics' PG110, a novel biologic in development for the treatment of chronic pain. This fully humanized antibody to Nerve Growth Factor (NGF) expands Abbott's early stage pain care pipeline and leverages our biologics platform. NGF is released at sites of tissue damage and inflammation, and plays a significant role in the transmission of pain signals by the central nervous system.
 
                 
Presented Three-Year Bioabsorbable Stent Data at AHA
Announced three-year data from its fully bioabsorbable drug-eluting stent clinical trial, ABSORB. These results showed that patients experienced no stent thrombosis out to three years and no new major adverse cardiac events (MACE) between six months and three years. In addition, Abbott announced a large-scale trial called ABSORB EXTEND, which will enroll up to 1,000 patients with more complex coronary artery disease from approximately 100 centers around the world.
 
                 
Announced Acquisition of STARLIMS Technologies Ltd.
Announced a definitive agreement to acquire STARLIMS Technologies Ltd., a leading provider of laboratory information management systems. The acquisition strengthens Abbott's competitive position in the global diagnostics market, providing advanced web-based software applications to help laboratories efficiently store, retrieve and analyze clinical, managerial and administrative data.
 
                 
Announced Regulatory Filing for Simcor
 40mg and Arbiter-6 HALTS Data Presented at AHA
Announced U.S. regulatory filing for two new 40mg dosage strengths of Simcor, Abbott's fixed dose combination of niacin extended-release and simvastatin. In addition, the Arbiter-6 HALTS study, presented at AHA, showed that adding Abbott's Niaspan to statin therapy resulted in significant carotid atherosclerosis regression and significantly fewer major adverse cardiac events (MACE) than ezetimibe (Zetia).
 
                 
Received Approval for Two New HUMIRA
 Indications in Japan
Recently received regulatory approval in Japan for two new HUMIRA indications, psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. HUMIRA was approved for rheumatoid arthritis in Japan in 2008. In addition, Abbott has completed regulatory submissions in Japan for Crohn's disease and ankylosing spondylitis, and review is currently underway.
 
                 
Received Approval for XIENCE V
 in Japan and Mexico
Abbott recently received regulatory approval for XIENCE V in Japan, the second largest DES market in the world.
XIENCE V was also approved in Mexico in January.
The launches of XIENCE V in Japan and Mexico are expected to begin shortly. In addition, the COMPARE trial results were published in . These results showed XIENCE V demonstrated superior safety and efficacy outcomes compared to Boston Scientific's TAXUS
The Lancet
 Liberte drug-eluting stent.
Abbott issues earnings-per-share outlook for 2010
 
Abbott is issuing ongoing earnings-per-share guidance for the full-year 2010 of $4.20 to $4.25, excluding specified items. The midpoint of this range reflects growth of approximately 13.5 percent over 2009, including an expected February 2010 close of the Solvay Pharmaceuticals acquisition.
 
Abbott forecasts specified items for the full-year 2010 of approximately $0.28 per share, primarily associated with previously announced acquisitions and cost reduction initiatives, as well as the one-time impact of the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar on translation of the balance sheet. Including these specified items, projected earnings per share under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) would be $3.92 to $3.97 for the full-year 2010. This forecast excludes integration costs associated with the Solvay Pharmaceuticals acquisition, which will be quantified at a later date.
 
Abbott declares quarterly dividend; double-digit increase over prior year
 
On Dec. 11, 2009, the board of directors of Abbott declared the company's quarterly common dividend of 40 cents per share, an increase of 11 percent over the prior period. The cash dividend is payable Feb. 15, 2010, to shareholders of record at the close of business on Jan. 15, 2010. This marks the 344
th
 consecutive dividend paid by Abbott since 1924.
 
About Abbott
 
Abbott is a global, broad-based health care company devoted to the discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceuticals and medical products, including nutritionals, devices and diagnostics. The company employs more than 72,000 people and markets its products in more than 130 countries.
 
Abbott's news releases and other information are available on the company's Web site at www.abbott.com. Abbott will webcast its live fourth-quarter earnings conference call through its Investor Relations Web site at www.abbottinvestor.com at 8 a.m. Central time today. An archived edition of the call will be available after 11 a.m. Central time.
 
Some statements in this news release may be forward-looking statements for purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Abbott cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," to our Annual Report on Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008, and are incorporated by reference. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of subsequent events or developments.
 
 
1)
             
2009 Net Earnings Excluding Specified Items excludes after-tax charges of $170 million, or $0.11 per share, for acquired in-process research and development associated with the PanGenetics acquisition, $99 million, or $0.07 per share, primarily for acquisition integration and cost reduction initiatives, and $37 million, or $0.02 per share, primarily related to inventory write-offs associated with the suspension of sibutramine in certain countries following the European regulatory recommendation.
 
2008 Net Earnings Excluding Specified Items excludes after-tax charges of $183 million, or $0.12 per share, for litigation settlements related to TriCor and $82 million, or $0.05 per share, for cost reduction initiatives, acquisition integration and other, including actions to improve efficiencies in the core diagnostic business. These charges were partially offset by an after-tax gain of $146 million, or $0.09 per share, related to the sale of the spine business.
 
NOTE: See attached questions and answers section for further explanation of Consolidated Statement of Earnings line items.
 
n/m = Percent change is not meaningful.
 
 
1)
             
Other (income) expense, net, in 2009 includes the derecognition of a contingent liability that was recorded in connection with the conclusion of the TAP joint venture and a patent litigation settlement. Other (income) expense, net, in 2008 includes a gain associated with the closing of the TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. joint venture transaction and a gain from the sale of an equity investment in Millennium Pharmaceuticals. These items have been treated as specified items in both periods.
2)
             
2009 Net Earnings Excluding Specified Items excludes an after-tax gain of $505 million, or $0.32 per share, relating to the derecognition of a contingent liability and an after-tax gain of $182 million, or $0.12 per share, relating to a patent litigation settlement. This was offset by $170 million, or $0.11 per share, for acquired in-process research and development, $164 million, or $0.10 per share, primarily relating to costs associated with the acquisition of Advanced Medical Optics, $68 million, or $0.04 per share, for litigation settlements and $344 million, or $0.22 per share, primarily for cost reduction initiatives and costs associated with a delayed product launch.
2008 Net Earnings Excluding Specified Items excludes a tax-free gain of $94 million, or $0.06 per share, recorded on the closing of the TAP joint venture transaction, a reduction in income taxes of $30 million, or $0.02 per share, relating to the settlement of an IRS audit, an after-tax gain of $49 million, or $0.03 per share, relating to sales of equity investments, and an after-tax gain of $146 million, or $0.09 per share, related to the sale of the spine business. These items were offset by after-tax charges of $76 million, or $0.05 per share, for acquired in-process research and development relating to technology investments, $283 million, or $0.18 per share, for cost reduction initiatives, $183 million, or $0.12 per share, for litigation settlements related to TriCor and $83 million, or $0.05 per share, for acquisition integration, TAP separation and other.
3)
             
Effective January 1, 2009, Abbott adopted FSP EITF 03-6-1, "Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities." As a result, net earnings allocated to common shares for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 was $5.733 billion. Net earnings allocated to common shares in 2008 was not significantly different than net income.
 
NOTE: See attached questions and answers section for further explanation of Consolidated Statement of Earnings line items.
 
 
n/m = Percent change is not meaningful.
 
Q1)
                         
What drove the growth of worldwide pharmaceutical sales?
 
A1)
                           
Reported HUMIRA global sales growth was 21.4 percent for the full-year 2009, exceeding our previous full-year sales guidance for the product. International pharmaceutical sales in the fourth quarter increased 22.1 percent, including a 5.6 percent favorable impact from exchange. Internationally, growth for HUMIRA was 48.0 percent, with reported sales of $888 million. International anti-TNF market growth trends remain strong, and HUMIRA maintains a market-leading position in many of the international markets, including the number one share position in Western Europe.
 
U.S. pharmaceutical sales declined 1.9 percent, excluding the expected decline of Depakote sales due to generic competition, which reduced U.S. pharmaceutical sales growth by 6.7 percentage points. Reported U.S. pharmaceutical sales declined 8.6 percent.
 
U.S. pharmaceutical sales were led by
Niaspan, with sales of $254 million, up 14.9 percent. The release of the Arbiter-6 HALTS study data at AHA in November is having a favorable impact on Niaspan prescribing trends. TriCor/TRILIPIX franchise growth this quarter was impacted by the comparison to prior year, when sales were up 16 percent, including the initial launch of TRILIPIX. Total prescriptions for the TriCor/TRILIPIX franchise continue to grow in the mid-to high-single digits, exceeding the growth rate of the cholesterol market.
 
In line with our expectations, U.S. HUMIRA sales growth was impacted by the comparison to the fourth quarter of 2008, when sales growth was 42 percent. Underlying demand for HUMIRA continues to outpace the market, with particularly strong growth in the dermatology and gastroenterology segments.  During 2009, HUMIRA gained total prescription share in the U.S. anti-TNF market, with 42 percent share at year end.
 
Q2)
                         
What drove the strong performance in worldwide medical products and worldwide nutritional products sales?
 
A2)
                           
M
edical products sales increased 23.4 percent, including a favorable 3.2 percent impact from exchange and sales from Abbott Medical Optics (AMO), which was acquired during the first quarter of 2009. Medical Products strength in the quarter reflects 9.1 percent growth in worldwide vascular sales and strong growth in U.S. Diagnostics, including continued double-digit growth in Abbott's molecular and point of care diagnostics businesses.
 
Vascular sales were driven by the
continued market uptake of XIENCE V, which remains the number one drug-eluting stent (DES) in the United States and Europe. In January, we received approval for XIENCE V in Japan and expect to launch upon final reimbursement authorization, which we anticipate in early February. Japan is the second-largest drug-eluting stent market. XIENCE PRIME, our next-generation drug-eluting stent, is off to a strong start in Europe, where it was launched in September 2009. XIENCE PRIME is gaining market share given its improved deliverability and additional long-lesion sizes. In addition, XIENCE V was approved in Mexico in January.
 
Worldwide nutritional products sales increased 8.8 percent, including a favorable 0.9 percent impact from exchange. International nutritional product sales increased 11.0 percent, reflecting strong growth in key emerging markets, including Latin America and Asia.
 
Q3)
                         
What was the fourth-quarter gross margin ratio?
 
A3)
                           
The gross margin ratio before and after specified items is shown below (dollars in millions):
 
 
The adjusted gross margin ratio was 58.3 percent, consistent with our previous forecast, reflecting the expected reduction in Depakote sales resulting from generic competition and the negative impact of foreign exchange on the ratio.
 
Q4)
                         
What was the tax rate for the full-year 2009 and in the quarter?
 
A4)
                           
The full-year 2009 ongoing tax rate of 16.8 percent reflects continuing favorable trends. We expect these trends to continue into 2010. The fourth-quarter ongoing tax rate was 14.5 percent, reflecting the mix of income by taxing jurisdiction. The reported fourth-quarter tax rate is reconciled to the ongoing rate below (dollars in millions):
 
 
Q5)
                         
What drove SG&A and R&D investment in the quarter?
 
A5)
                           
In the fourth quarter, Abbott
increased investment in programs to drive future growth, resulting in ongoing SG&A expense that was above previous expectations. R&D investment was in line with our forecasts, reflecting continued investment in our broad-based pipeline, including programs in vascular devices, immunology, neuroscience, oncology and HCV.
 
Q6)
                          
How did specified items affect reported results?
 
A6)
                           
Specified items impacted fourth-quarter results as follows:
 
 
Acquired in-process R&D is related to the acquisition of global rights to PanGenetics' PG110, a novel biologic in development for the treatment of chronic pain. Product suspension primarily relates to inventory write-offs associated with the suspension of sibutramine by certain countries following the European regulatory recommendation. Acquisition related is primarily associated with integration costs related to the acquisitions of AMO, Evalve and Visiogen. Cost reduction initiatives include actions to improve efficiencies, including the previously announced efforts in the core laboratory diagnostic business.
 
The pre-tax impact of specified items by Consolidated Statement of Earnings line item is as follows (dollars in millions):
 
 
Q7)
                          
What are the key areas of focus in Abbott's broad-based pipeline?
 
A7)
                           
Abbott is conducting leading-edge research across the company. In 2010, we expect to see continued advancement in our broad-based pipeline, including the anticipated approval for five new products or indications and data for numerous Phase I and Phase II compounds. Our pipeline is comprised of breakthrough research across both pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Following are select highlights:
 
                 
Lipid Management
 
                 
We continue to anticipate U.S. FDA approval for CERTRIAD during the first half of 2010.  CERTRIAD is the fixed-dose combination of TRILIPIX and CRESTOR that Abbott is developing with
AstraZeneca.
 
                 
Oncology
 
                 
Abbott's oncology pipeline includes therapies that represent promising, unique scientific approaches to treating cancer. Abbott is focused on the development of targeted, less-toxic treatments that inhibit tumor growth and improve response to common cancer therapies.
 
                 
Our mid-stage oncology pipeline includes: ABT-263, a Bcl-2 family protein antagonist; ABT-869, a multi-targeted kinase inhibitor; and ABT-888, a PARP-inhibitor. Abbott is also evaluating a number of additional promising mechanisms in our pre-clinical pipeline.
 
                 
Neuroscience
 
                 
Abbott is conducting innovative research in neuroscience, where we have developed compounds that target receptors in the brain that help regulate mood, memory and other neurological functions to address conditions such as Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. Abbott recently advanced two compounds into Phase II development for Alzheimer's disease.
 
                 
Abbott is also pursuing compounds that could provide relief across a broad spectrum of pain states, such as osteoarthritis, postoperative pain and cancer pain. We recently expanded our early-stage pain portfolio with the addition of an anti-nerve growth factor (NGF) biologic for chronic pain.
 
                 
Immunology
 
                 
Abbott's scientific experience with the anti-TNF biologic HUMIRA serves as a strong foundation for our continuing research in immunology. In our pipeline, we continue to explore additional indications for HUMIRA and have ongoing studies for ABT-874, Abbott's anti-IL 12/23 biologic. We are also working to advance development of our early discovery programs, including oral DMARD therapies, as well as other potential biologic targets.
 
                 
Additionally, our proprietary DVD-Ig technology represents an innovative approach that can target multiple disease-causing antigens with a single biologic agent. This technology could lead to combination biologics for complex conditions such as cancer or rheumatoid arthritis, where multiple pathways are involved in the disease.
 
Q7)
                          
What are the key areas of focus in Abbott's broad-based pipeline? (continued)
 
A7)
                           
(continued)
 
                 
Hepatitis C
 
                 
Abbott's antiviral program is focused on the treatment of hepatitis C, a disease that affects more than 180 million people worldwide, with approximately 3 to 4 million people newly infected each year. Abbott's broad-based hepatitis C development programs include our partnership with Enanta Pharmaceuticals to discover protease inhibitors, as well as our internal programs focused on additional viral targets, including polymerase inhibitors.
 
                 
Abbott currently has three HCV compounds in human trials, spanning multiple mechanisms of action, with additional compounds in pre-clinical development.  Abbott is well positioned to explore combinations of these new therapies, a strategy with the potential to markedly transform current treatment practices by shortening therapy duration, improving tolerability and increasing cure rates.
 
                 
Vascular Devices
 
                 
MitraClip
 Abbott
'
s MitraClip is on the market in Europe and in development in the United States for the treatment of mitral regurgitation. Abbott anticipates presenting the MitraClip pivotal trial, EVEREST II, at the upcoming ACC medical meeting in March.
 
                 
XIENCE PRIME
Abbott's next-generation DES that capitalizes on the proven attributes of XIENCE V while offering a novel stent design and a modified delivery system for improved deliverability. XIENCE PRIME is off to a strong start in Europe, where it was launched in September. XIENCE PRIME is in clinical trials in the United States.
 
                 
XIENCE Nano
XIENCE V for small vessels is in clinical trials in the
United States
. This 2.25 mm diameter stent was launched in Europe in 2008.
 
                 
"Thinman" DES
Abbott is developing an ultra thin DES, which would be the thinnest DES on the market at the time of launch. Thin stent struts are designed to improve clinical outcomes by reducing vessel injury upon deployment, enabling faster healing and improving deliverability in complex anatomy.
 
                 
Bioabsorbable Stent
 Abbott is developing a bioabsorbable stent that is gradually resorbed into the vessel wall 
much like sutures are absorbed after healing a wound 
with the potential to return the vessel to full motion. Abbott has the most advanced clinical program, with an opportunity to reach the market years ahead of competitors.
 
                 
Core products
Abbott recently received CE Mark for its next-generation bare metal stent, MULTI-LINK 8. We expect approval for this product in the United States later this year. Other d
evices in active development include next-generation frontline and high-pressure balloons, and new guidewires.
 
Q7)
                          
What are the key areas of focus in Abbott's broad-based pipeline? (continued)
 
A7)
                           
(continued)
 
                 
Molecular Diagnostics
 
                 
In the fourth quarter, Abbott launched its first RealTime cancer test on the m2000 platform to detect a gene linked to colorectal cancer. Abbott also continues to partner with pharmaceutical companies to develop automated molecular tests to screen for non-small cell lung cancer.
 
                 
Diagnostics
 
                 
Abbott
recently received CE Mark for an important ARCHITECT immunoassay, which can help in the assessment of ovarian cancer in women. Abbott has also submitted the test to the FDA for 510(k) clearance.
 
                 
Abbott has also submitted a Premarket Approval (PMA) application to the FDA for its ARCHITECT HIV Ag/Ab Combo assay. The assay has been shown to detect acute and chronic HIV infection earlier than currently approved antibody tests. Upon approval, the test is expected to be the first of its kind available for patients in the United States.


