FILE:ABT/ABT-8K-20110505163217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
Abbott Laboratories held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders on April 29, 2011.  The following is a summary of the matters voted on at that meeting.
 
(a)
         
The shareholders elected Abbott's entire Board of Directors.  The persons elected to Abbott's Board of Directors and the number of shares cast for, the number of shares withheld, and broker non-votes, with respect to each of these persons, were as follows:
 
 
(b)
        
The shareholders ratified the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Abbott's auditors.  The number of shares cast in favor of the ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP, the number against, the number abstaining, and broker non-votes were as follows:
 
 
(c)
         
The shareholders voted to approve the compensation of Abbott's named executive officers listed in the proxy statement for the 2011 annual meeting.  The shareholder vote is advisory and non-binding. The number of shares cast in favor of approval, the number against, the number abstaining, and the number of broker non-votes were as follows:
 
 
(d)
        
The shareholders voted to approve management's recommendation that Abbott present shareholders with the opportunity to vote on the compensation awarded to its named executive officers annually.  The shareholder vote is advisory and non-binding.  The number of shares cast in favor of holding the vote annually, every two years or every three years, the number abstaining and the number of broker non-votes were as follows:
 
 
(e)
         
The shareholders rejected a shareholder proposal requesting Abbott's Board of Directors to create and implement a policy of price restraint on branded pharmaceuticals. The number of shares cast in favor of the shareholder proposal, the number against, the number abstaining, and the number of broker non-votes were as follows:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


