FILE:COV/COV-8K-20071217172505.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On December 14, 2007, the Company signed a definitive agreement (the "Agreement") with First Quality Enterprises, Inc. of Great Neck, New York, for the sale of the Company's Retail Products business segment for $335 million in cash, subject to working capital and other pre- and post-closing adjustments. Excluding any indemnification obligations that may arise post-closing and any working capital adjustments, the pre- and post-closing adjustments are capped at $25 million. The Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and conditions to closing, including regulatory approval. The Company expects the transaction to close in the first calendar quarter of 2008, which is the Company's second fiscal quarter. In the interim, the business will be reported as a discontinued operation. Additional information about certain effects of the transaction is provided under Item 2.06 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The above summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement, which will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending December 28, 2007. A copy of the press release announcing this transaction is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
On December 17, 2007, the Company concluded that, because the purchase price for the sale of the Company's Retail Products segment described in Item 1.01 above represents a discount to the current carrying value of the assets and liabilities being conveyed as a result of the transaction, it expects to record a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $45 to $65 million related to these assets. This charge will be included in the Company's first quarter results.
 
The Company expects that moving the Retail Products segment to discontinued operations, as discussed in Item 1.01 above, will add 30 to 50 basis points to its sales growth rate in fiscal 2008 and reduce operating income by approximately $50 to $60 million. Based on these changes, the Company is projecting that its operating margin will be at the high end of the previously communicated 19% to 20% range.
Certain of these statements may constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are based on our management's current beliefs and expectations, but are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results or Company actions to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. The factors that could cause actual future results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties relating to completion of the transaction described above, changing technologies, product development and market acceptance of our products, the cost and pricing of our products, manufacturing, competition, customers' capital spending and government funding policies, changes in governmental regulations, the use and protection of intellectual property rights, litigation and exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. These and other factors are identified and described in more detail in our filings with the SEC.
We disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements other than as required by law.
The information in this Item 7.01 is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 17, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
FIRST QUALITY TO ACQUIRE COVIDIEN'S RETAIL PRODUCTS BUSINESS
Great Neck, New York and Hamilton, Bermuda  December 17, 2007  First Quality Enterprises, Inc. ("First Quality") and Covidien Ltd. (NYSE: COV, BSX: COV) today announced that the two companies have entered into a definitive agreement under which First Quality will acquire Covidien's Retail Products business for approximately $335 million, subject to certain adjustment provisions. Covidien's Retail Products business, headquartered in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, had sales of $744 million in fiscal 2007. The transaction, which is subject to customary closing conditions, is expected to be completed in the first calendar quarter of 2008.
The First Quality group of companies is comprised of three divisions  Absorbent Hygiene, Paper Products and Non-woven Material  serving the healthcare, retail and commercial channels. With the addition of Covidien's Retail Products business and its complementary product lines, First Quality's Absorbent Hygiene business will have a more diversified product portfolio and a full range of adult incontinence, feminine hygiene, wet and dry wipes, and baby diaper products. This acquisition will enable First Quality to enhance its relationships with retail customers by offering broader, more innovative product lines and greater value.
"The acquisition of Covidien's Retail Products business is a compelling opportunity for First Quality," said Richard Martorella, Director of Finance and Treasury of First Quality. "The addition of Retail Products creates a more comprehensive Absorbent Hygiene business, solidifying First Quality's position in our three core areas. Together, the First Quality Absorbent Hygiene division will provide customers with a full suite of premium products serving the infant care, adult incontinence and feminine hygiene segments. We welcome Covidien's Retail Products business and its hardworking and dedicated employees to the First Quality family."
Richard J. Meelia, President and Chief Executive Officer of Covidien said, "Retail Products has been part of Covidien for nearly a decade and has a workforce committed to delivering high-quality products to North American retailers. Following a thorough review and evaluation of strategic alternatives for the business, we determined that the unique characteristics of Retail Products did not fit with Covidien's goal to be the leading global healthcare products company. This transaction is consistent with Covidien's strategy to focus its portfolio and reallocate resources to its core healthcare business. We look forward to working closely with First Quality's talented team and we anticipate a smooth transition."
Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, Covidien will report the Retail Products business as a discontinued operation.
Goldman, Sachs & Co. served as financial advisor to First Quality and Morgan Stanley served as financial advisor to Covidien.
ABOUT FIRST QUALITY ENTERPRISES, INC.
Founded in 1990, First Quality Enterprises, Inc. and its affiliates are a closely-held diversified group of companies manufacturing, selling and distributing branded and private label absorbent hygiene, paper and non-woven products into the healthcare, retail and commercial channels. First Quality is dedicated to meeting the demands of the market by providing innovative and high-quality products manufactured utilizing state of the art technology. For more information please visit www.firstquality.com.
ABOUT COVIDIEN
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in five segments: Medical Devices, Pharmaceutical Products, Imaging Solutions, Medical Supplies and Retail Products. With 2007 revenue of $10 billion, Covidien has more than 43,000 employees worldwide in 57 countries, and its products are sold in over 130 countries. Please visit www.covidien.com to learn more about our business.
Contacts:
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Any statements contained in this press release that do not describe historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are based on our management's current beliefs and expectations, but are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results or Company actions to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. The factors that could cause actual future results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties relating to satisfaction of closing conditions related to the Retail Products business transaction, the integration of businesses we have acquired or may acquire in the future, changing technologies, product development and market acceptance of our products, the cost and pricing of our products, manufacturing, competition, customers' capital spending and government funding policies, changes in governmental regulations, the use and protection of intellectual property rights, litigation and exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. These and other factors are identified and described in more detail in our filings with the SEC. We disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements other than as required by law.


