FILE:COV/COV-8K-20071206071014.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On December 6, 2007, Covidien Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended September 28, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 6, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
Covidien Reports Fourth-Quarter and Fiscal 2007 Results
Fourth-quarter diluted GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.07; excluding specified items, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.63
HAMILTON, Bermuda  December 6, 2007  Covidien Ltd. (NYSE: COV; BSX: COV) today reported results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 (July  September 2007), the first quarter in which the Company operated independent of Tyco International.
Net sales rose 5% to $2.6 billion from $2.5 billion a year ago, led by the Medical Devices and Imaging Solutions business segments. Sales growth was driven by higher volume and new products. Favorable foreign exchange contributed 2 percentage points to the sales increase. Strong double-digit sales growth was posted internationally, fueled by Europe, Asia-Pacific and Other Americas.
Fourth-quarter gross margin of 48% was up 2 full percentage points from that of the prior year. This substantial improvement reflected favorable product mix and foreign exchange, as well as cost savings from manufacturing, which more than offset higher costs for raw materials and transportation.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were substantially higher than in the year-ago fourth quarter. The increase was attributable to planned growth in selling and marketing investments and higher administrative expenses, primarily compensation and benefit costs, as well as costs to separate from Tyco International. Research and Development (R&D) spending in the quarter was well above that of the year before and represented 3.0% of sales, versus 2.7% of sales last year.
For the fourth quarter, the Company reported operating income of $156 million. Operating income included a $290 million non-cash charge primarily for impairments of long-lived assets in the Imaging Solutions and Retail Products segments, $32 million of restructuring charges and $5 million of additional insurance recoveries related to Covidien's portion of the Tyco International shareholder class action settlement. Excluding these three specified items, fourth-quarter operating income would have been $473 million, representing 18.2% of sales.
The fourth-quarter effective tax rate of 71% reflected the goodwill impairment charge, only a portion of which was tax deductible, and other adjustments to legacy income tax liabilities. Excluding specified items, the fourth-quarter tax rate was 27%.
Fourth-quarter diluted GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.07 included the following items: $0.52 relating to impairments of long-lived assets, $0.04 for restructuring charges, $0.01 for other tax matters that affected the effective tax rate and ($0.01) for the insurance recoveries related to Covidien's portion of the Tyco International shareholder class action settlement. Excluding these items, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.63.
For fiscal 2007, net sales of $10.2 billion were 5% above the $9.6 billion in the prior year, with favorable foreign exchange contributing 2 percentage points to the sales increase. Sales rose 2% in the United States and 11% outside the U.S., with double-digit growth in Europe, Asia-Pacific and Other Americas.
The Company reported operating income of $438 million in fiscal 2007. The 2007 operating income included a $1.2 billion charge for Covidien's portion of the Tyco International shareholder class action settlement, a $290 million non-cash charge primarily for impairments of long-lived assets in the Imaging Solutions and Retail Products segments, $58 million of restructuring charges and $38 million of in-process R&D charges. Excluding these specified items, fiscal 2007 operating income would have been $2.0 billion, representing 19.9% of sales.
Fiscal 2007 diluted GAAP loss per share from continuing operations of ($0.68) included the following items: $2.42 related to Covidien's portion of the Tyco International shareholder class action settlement, $0.53 for the impairments of long-lived assets, $0.31 for the loss on early extinguishment of debt, $0.07 for restructuring charges, $0.06 for in-process R&D charges, $0.03 for other tax matters that affected the effective tax rate and ($0.02) for the impact of non-GAAP dilutive shares. Excluding these items, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.72.
"The sales results for the fourth quarter, which was our first independent quarter following the separation from Tyco International, and for fiscal 2007 were consistent with our expectations," said President and Chief Executive Officer Richard J. Meelia. "Fourth-quarter sales growth was led by strong performances in our Medical Devices and Imaging Solutions segments, aided by new products and further recovery from last year's product-related issues. Our International businesses again registered excellent sales gains, reflecting the incremental investments we made in recent years to augment the sales force and expand geographically.
"For the fourth consecutive quarter, we delivered a significant improvement in gross margin. On an adjusted basis, our operating margin for fiscal 2007 was slightly below our expectations, due to an accelerated investment in selling and marketing and some separation-related expenses. We were also pleased to execute on a major objective by refinancing $2.75 billion of debt after the quarter closed. We replaced a large portion of our borrowings under an unsecured bridge loan with fixed rate notes," Mr. Meelia said.
"The entire Covidien organization played an integral part in our 2007 performance, as we successfully managed the separation from Tyco International while meeting our operational expectations. The Company is in an excellent position to strengthen our position as a global leader in the healthcare industry," Mr. Meelia added.
Results by business segment follow.
sales climbed 9% in the fourth quarter to $1.6 billion from $1.5 billion in the previous year. Sales growth was driven by new products, volume and acquisitions, as well as by favorable foreign exchange, which contributed 3 percentage points to the sales increase.Sales of Endomechanical (laparoscopic instruments and stapling) were well above those of a year ago, paced by Europe and Asia, where sales force expansion contributed to the advance. Both Energy (vessel sealing, electrosurgery and hardware) and Soft Tissue Repair (sutures, mesh and biosurgery products) registered strong double-digit growth in the quarter.
Medical Devices
The Energy increase was due to vessel sealing and hardware products, while Soft Tissue Repair benefited from higher sales of mesh and sutures. Sales of Vascular (compression and vascular therapy) and SharpSafety (needles, syringes, and sharps disposal) were both well ahead of those of a year ago. Airway & Ventilation (airway management, ventilators, breathing systems, sleep and inhalation therapy) sales rose in the quarter, due to a good performance in International markets and the acquisition of Airox.
For fiscal 2007, Medical Devices sales grew 8% to $6.2 billion from $5.7 billion a year ago, due primarily to higher sales of Endomechanical, Energy and Soft Tissue Repair products. Favorable foreign exchange contributed 3 percentage points to the sales advance.
Following the close of the quarter, the Company announced the acquisition of Scandius Biomedical, Inc., a developer of devices for sports-related surgeries. In addition, Covidien announced an agreement with Allergan, Inc. to co-promote the Lap-Band adjustable gastric banding system.
sales increased 4% to $327 million from $314 million in the fourth quarter of last year. Growth was paced by Specialty Chemicals, which posted sales well above those of a year ago, and by higher sales of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API). In Specialty Chemicals, the quarterly sales advance was due to higher pharmaceutical sales in Europe and increased laboratory chemicals sales in the U.S., while the API sales gain was attributable to growth in narcotic products and bulk acetaminophen. These increases more than offset a slight decline in Dosage Pharmaceuticals.
Pharmaceutical Products
For fiscal 2007, Pharmaceutical Products sales climbed 9% to $1.3 billion from $1.2 billion last year. Sales growth was broad-based, with good gains across all product lines.
sales rose 11% to $252 million, compared with $228 million in the prior year's fourth quarter. Favorable foreign exchange contributed 2 percentage points to the sales increase. Sales growth was paced by a sizable gain for Radiopharmaceuticals, due to higher U.S. sales of cardiology and oncology products, and somewhat increased sales of Contrast Products, attributable to higher sales of delivery systems. Contrast agent unit volume grew in the quarter, but sales were flat, due to significant pricing declines.
Imaging Solutions
For fiscal 2007, Imaging Solutions sales climbed 8% to $942 million, versus $870 million the year before. Favorable foreign exchange contributed 2 percentage points to the sales growth. The segment's 2007 sales increase was fueled by a strong double-digit gain for Radiopharmaceuticals, reflecting recovery from product-related issues in 2006.
sales decreased 1% to $250 million from $253 million in the fourth quarter of the previous year. Higher sales of nursing care products were more than offset by lower sales of Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) products, including needles and pre-filled syringes, and the discontinuance of a supply agreement.
Medical Supplies
For fiscal 2007, sales of Medical Supplies, at $993 million, remained relatively flat versus those of a year ago. Higher sales of nursing care products and favorable foreign exchange countered the impact of a mid-year 2006 divestiture.
sales of $164 million in the fourth quarter were 23% below last year's $213 million. The sales decline resulted primarily from lower infant care volume, attributable to the planned withdrawal from several low-margin, private-label contracts, coupled with greater price competition by branded competitors.
Retail Products
For fiscal 2007, sales of Retail Products declined 13% to $744 million from $855 million a year ago.
FISCAL 2008 OUTLOOK
Consistent with prior guidance, the Company estimates sales growth for the 2008 fiscal year will be in the 3%-5% range, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, or 4%-6% including foreign exchange at current rates. Net sales, including foreign exchange at current rates, are expected to grow 6% to 8% versus 2007 in the Medical Devices segment, 3% to 6% in Pharmaceutical Products and 7% to 10% in Imaging Solutions. The Company expects sales in Medical Supplies to be flat to down 3%, with Retail Products sales flat to down 5%. Consistent with prior guidance, the operating margin is expected to be in the 19%-20% range and we anticipate the effective tax rate will be in the 30%-32% range for fiscal 2008, excluding the impact of one-time items.
ABOUT COVIDIEN LTD.
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in five segments: Medical Devices, Pharmaceutical Products, Imaging Solutions, Medical Supplies and Retail Products. With 2007 revenue of $10 billion, Covidien has more than 43,000 employees worldwide in 57 countries, and its products are sold in over 130 countries. Please visit www.covidien.com to learn more about our business.
CONTACTS:
 
CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST
The Company will hold a conference call for investors today, beginning at 8:30 a.m. ET. This call can be accessed three ways:
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
This press release contains financial measures, including adjusted operating income, adjusted earnings per share and adjusted operating margin, that are considered "non-GAAP" financial measures under applicable Securities & Exchange Commission rules and regulations. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered supplemental to and not a substitute for financial information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The definition of these non-GAAP measures may differ from similarly titled measures used by others.
The non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release adjust for specified items that can be highly variable or difficult to predict. The Company generally uses these non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate management's financial and operational decision-making, including evaluation of Covidien's historical operating results, comparison to competitors' operating results and determination of management incentive compensation. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of the Company's operations that, when viewed with GAAP results and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting Covidien's business.
Because non-GAAP financial measures exclude the effect of items that will increase or decrease the Company's reported results of operations, management strongly encourages investors to review the Company's consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the tables accompanying this release.
The Company presents its operating margin forecast before special items to give investors a perspective on the expected underlying business results. Because the Company cannot predict the amount and timing of such items and the associated charges or gains that will be recorded in the Company's financial statements, it is difficult to include the impact of those items in the forecast.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Any statements contained in this press release that do not describe historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are based on our management's current beliefs and expectations, but are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results or Company actions to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. The factors that could cause actual future results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties relating to the integration of businesses we have acquired or may acquire in the future, changing technologies, product development and market acceptance of our products, the cost and pricing of our products, manufacturing, competition, customers' capital spending and government funding policies, changes in governmental regulations, the use and protection of intellectual property rights, litigation and exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. These and other factors are identified and described in more detail in our filings with the SEC. We disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements other than as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


