FILE:COV/COV-8K-20080929164915.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 29, 2008, Covidien Ltd. issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has elected CEO and President Richard J. Meelia to the additional position of Chairman of the Board and appointed Timothy M. Donahue as its independent Lead Director, both effective as of October 1, 2008.
A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
September 29, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
COVIDIEN CEO ELECTED CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
CEO and President Richard J. Meelia Assumes Additional Duties October 1
Covidien Ltd. (NYSE: COV, BSX: COV) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected CEO and President Richard J. Meelia to the additional position of Chairman of the Board, effective October 1, 2008.
Hamilton, Bermuda  September 29, 2008 
Mr. Meelia succeeds Dennis H. Reilley, who has served as non-executive Chairman since Covidien became an independent, publicly traded company in June 2007. Mr. Reilley, the immediate past Chairman of Praxair, will continue to serve as a Covidien Director.
"Rich has done a superb job of leading the organization before, during and after its separation last year from Tyco International," Mr. Reilley said. "In Covidien's first year as a public company, Rich has directed a successful strategy of growth and innovation, while keeping an appropriate focus on creating long-term shareholder value. Under his outstanding leadership, Covidien has made a strong start in its drive to become the world's leading healthcare products company."
For the first nine months of Covidien's 2008 fiscal year (October 2007  June 2008), net sales increased 11%, to $7.3 billion. Operating income for the nine months was $1,405 million, versus $199 million for the same period of the prior year.
Mr. Meelia, 59, has served as CEO and President of Covidien since the business, formerly known as Tyco Healthcare, spun off from Tyco International on June 29, 2007. Mr. Meelia joined Kendall Healthcare Products Company, the foundation of the Tyco Healthcare business, as Group President in 1991 and became President of Tyco Healthcare in 1995. In the ensuing years prior to the separation, he directed Tyco Healthcare's acquisition, integration and product development efforts, growing the business from $600 million to nearly $9 billion in revenue.
The Board of Directors also announced today that it has appointed Timothy M. Donahue, a Covidien Director and immediate past Chairman of Sprint Nextel Corporation, to be lead director, effective October 1.
ABOUT COVIDIEN LTD.
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical
leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in four segments: Medical Devices, Imaging Solutions, Pharmaceutical Products and Medical Supplies. With 2007 revenue of nearly $9 billion, Covidien has more than 42,000 employees worldwide in 57 countries, and its products are sold in over 130 countries. Please visit
www.covidien.com
to learn more about our business.
CONTACTS:


