FILE:COV/COV-8K-20080805065329.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 5, 2008, Covidien Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter and nine months ended June 27, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 5, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
Covidien Reports Third-Quarter 2008 Results
 
 
HAMILTON, Bermuda  August 5, 2008  Covidien Ltd. (NYSE: COV; BSX: COV) today reported results for the third quarter of fiscal 2008 (April  June 2008). Third-quarter net sales rose 14% to $2.6 billion from $2.3 billion a year ago, fueled by strong growth in the Medical Devices, Imaging Solutions and Pharmaceutical Products business segments. Sales growth was driven by higher volume and new products. Favorable foreign exchange contributed 5 percentage points to the sales increase. All International regions  Europe, Japan, Other Americas and Asia-Pacific  reported strong double-digit sales gains.
Third-quarter gross margin of 53.7% was up 1.5 percentage points from that of the prior year. This substantial improvement reflected positive mix, aided by the incremental investments made to grow our higher-margin businesses, and favorable foreign exchange.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were significantly higher than in the third quarter of last year. The increase was attributable to planned growth in selling and marketing investments, foreign exchange and higher administrative costs. Research and Development (R&D) expense in the quarter was up 33% over the prior year and represented 3.3% of sales.
For the third quarter, the Company reported operating income of $545 million, versus an operating loss of $761 million a year ago. Third-quarter adjusted operating income, excluding specified items shown in the attached table, was $563 million, versus $481 million in the third quarter of the prior year. Third-quarter adjusted operating income represented 21.7% of sales, versus 21.2% a year ago.
The third-quarter effective tax rate was 36.3%. Excluding the specified items shown in the attached table, the third-quarter tax rate was 30.8%. The rate was unfavorably impacted by several adjustments related to legacy income tax liabilities.
Third-quarter diluted GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.65, versus a loss of $2.29 per share in the third quarter of last year. The third quarter non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, excluding specified items shown in the attached table, were $0.72, versus $0.64 a year ago.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2008, net sales of $7.3 billion were 11% above the $6.6 billion in the prior year, with favorable foreign exchange contributing 5 percentage points to the sales increase.
The Company reported operating income of $1.4 billion in the first nine months of fiscal 2008 versus $199 million a year ago. Nine-month adjusted operating income, excluding specified items shown in the attached table, was $1.54 billion, representing 20.9% of sales, versus $1.47 billion and 22.3% of sales a year ago.
The effective tax rate was 30.1% for the first nine months of fiscal 2008. Excluding the specified items shown in the attached table, the tax rate for the nine months was 29.9%.
For the first nine months, diluted GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.03, versus a loss of $0.86 per share in the prior year. The nine-month 2008 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, excluding specified items shown in the attached table, were $1.97, versus $2.01 a year ago.
"We were very pleased with our third-quarter performance, as sales and operating results came in somewhat above our expectations," said President and Chief Executive Officer Richard J. Meelia. "We again achieved strong results in our International markets, where we continue to benefit from the incremental investments we've made over the last few years to augment our sales force and expand geographically.
"We are on pace to meet our 2008 financial goals, with market share gains and new product launches driving our strong performance," Mr. Meelia said, adding that, "Our strategic investments in R&D, selling and marketing put the Company in an excellent position to achieve our growth objectives for the remainder of 2008 and beyond."
Results by business segment follow.
sales climbed 15% in the third quarter to $1.8 billion from $1.5 billion in the third quarter of the previous year. The sales gain was driven by favorable foreign exchange, which contributed 7 percentage points to the increase, as well as by new products and higher volume. Sales in Endomechanical were well above those of a year ago, paced by sharply higher sales of laparoscopic instruments.Energy registered strong double-digit growth in the quarter, due to higher sales of vessel sealing, electrosurgery and hardware products, including Force Triad, LigaSure Impact and Hand Switching Atlas. Sales in Soft Tissue Repair were up significantly, aided by higher suture sales and strong U.S. performance for mesh products.
Medical Devices
For the first nine months of fiscal 2008, Medical Devices sales grew 13% to $5.0 billion from $4.5 billion a year ago. Favorable foreign exchange contributed 7 percentage points to the sales advance.
sales rose 18% to $319 million, compared with $271 million in the prior year's third quarter. Favorable foreign exchange contributed 5 percentage points to the sales increase. Sales growth in the quarter was broad-based, as both Radiopharmaceuticals and Contrast Products delivered gains at a strong double-digit pace. The Radiopharmaceuticals increase was paced by good performance in the United States, while Contrast Products benefited from higher volume in Europe, Asia and Latin America, which more than offset pricing pressures in the U.S.
Imaging Solutions
For the nine months, Imaging Solutions sales climbed 16% to $914 million, versus $786 million the year before. Favorable foreign exchange contributed 4 percentage points to the sales increase.
sales in the third quarter of $257 million were 13% above the prior year's $228 million. Growth was attributable to a double-digit increase in sales of Dosage products, reflecting gains by both generic and branded pharmaceuticals, coupled with higher sales of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients, led by peptide products.
Pharmaceutical Products
For the nine months, Pharmaceutical Products sales were up 4% to $717 million from $692 million last year.
sales grew 8% to $238 million from $221 million in the third quarter of the previous year. The increase was primarily due to higher sales of OEM and Nursing Care products.
Medical Supplies
For the nine months, Medical Supplies sales, at $675 million, were 2% above last year's $664 million.
ABOUT COVIDIEN LTD.
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in four segments: Medical Devices, Imaging Solutions, Pharmaceutical Products and Medical Supplies. With 2007 revenue of nearly $9 billion, Covidien has more than 42,000 employees worldwide in 57 countries, and its products are sold in over 130 countries. Please visit www.covidien.com to learn more about our business.
 
CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST
The Company will hold a conference call for investors today, beginning at 8:30 a.m. ET. This call can be accessed three ways:
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
This press release contains financial measures, including adjusted operating income, adjusted earnings per share and adjusted operating margin, that are considered "non-GAAP" financial measures under applicable Securities & Exchange Commission rules and regulations. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered supplemental to and not a substitute for financial information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company's definition of these non-GAAP measures may differ from similarly titled measures used by others.
The non-GAAP financial measures used in this press release adjust for specified items that can be highly variable or difficult to predict. The Company generally uses these non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate management's financial and operational decision-making, including evaluation of Covidien's historical operating results, comparison to competitors' operating results and determination of management incentive compensation. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of the Company's operations that, when viewed with GAAP results and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting Covidien's business.
Because non-GAAP financial measures exclude the effect of items that will increase or decrease the Company's reported results of operations, management strongly encourages investors to review the Company's consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the tables accompanying this release.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Any statements contained in this press release that do not describe historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are based on our management's current beliefs and expectations, but are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results or Company actions to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. The factors that could cause actual future results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to, our ability to effectively introduce and market new products or keep pace with advances in technology, the reimbursement practices of a small number of large public and private insurers, cost-containment efforts of customers, purchasing groups, third-party payers and governmental organizations, intellectual property rights disputes, complex and costly regulation, including healthcare fraud and abuse regulations, manufacturing or supply chain problems or disruptions, recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity relating to Covidien or its products, product liability losses and other litigation liability, divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines, our ability to execute strategic acquisitions of, investments in or alliances with other companies and businesses, competition, risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, foreign currency exchange rates, potential environmental liabilities or increased costs after the separation from Tyco International or as a result of the
separation. These and other factors are identified and described in more detail in our filings with the SEC. We disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements other than as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


