FILE:COV/COV-8K-20081125080027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Confidentiality Agreements
In connection with the issuance of our fiscal year 2009 equity grant to executive officers on December 1, 2008, Covidien Ltd. (the "Company") will be entering into a Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation, and Confidentiality Agreement with our executive officers and certain key employees, other than Richard J. Meelia, whose Employment Agreement already includes similar provisions.
The terms of the noncompetition agreement provide that during the term of the employee's employment with the Company, and for a period of twelve (12) months thereafter, the employee will not, directly or indirectly, own, manage, operate, control, be employed by or otherwise provide services to a business which competes with the Company. The agreement also contains provisions that restrict the employee's ability during the term of the employee's employment with the Company and for a period of twelve (12) months after termination, to solicit or hire employees of the Company or to solicit customers of the Company.
 
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Amended and Restated Covidien Change in Control Severance Plan for Certain U.S. Officers and Executives
On November 20, 2008, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") approved and adopted the amended and restated Covidien Change in Control Severance Plan for Certain U.S. Officers and Executives (the "Change in Control Plan") under which all executive officers other than Mr. Meelia (who is entitled to severance benefits pursuant to his Employment Agreement with the Company) are entitled to benefits. The amendments conform the Change in Control Plan to changes in the law required by Sections 409A and 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and make other miscellaneous clarifications to plan language.
Amended and Restated Covidien Severance Plan for U.S. Officers and Executives
On November 20, 2008, the Committee approved and adopted the amended and restated Covidien Severance Plan for U.S. Officers and Executives (the "Severance Plan") under which all executive officers other than Mr. Meelia (who is entitled to severance benefits pursuant to his Employment Agreement with the Company) are entitled to benefits. The amendments provide that recipients of severance benefits may receive retirement or normal retirement treatment under stock option, restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards if, during the applicable severance period, they attain the requisite age requirement for such treatment (i.e., age 55 for retirement and age 60 for normal retirement). The amendments also conform the Severance Plan to changes in the law required by Code Sections 409A and 162(m) and make other miscellaneous clarifications to plan language.
FY09 Grant U.S. Option Terms and Conditions
FY09 Grant U.S. Restricted Stock Unit Terms and Conditions
FY09 Grant Performance Share Unit Terms and Conditions
On November 20, 2008, the Committee approved terms and conditions applicable to fiscal 2009 grants of stock options, restricted stock units and performance share units under our 2007 Stock and Incentive Plan. The terms and conditions include, among other things, a one-time requirement that participants enter into a Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Confidentiality Agreement in connection with the fiscal 2009 grant. The requirement to enter into a Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation and Confidentiality Agreement does not apply to Mr. Meelia (and is not included in his terms and conditions) because his Employment Agreement already includes similar provisions.
A copy of the terms and conditions are attached to this report as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 and incorporated herein by reference.
Amendment and Assignment of Employment Agreement with Mr. Meelia
On November 21, 2008, the Company and Mr. Meelia entered into an Amendment and Assignment Agreement relating to Mr. Meelia's Employment Agreement. The Amendment and Assignment conforms Mr. Meelia's Employment Agreement to changes in the law required by Code Section 409A, updates the Employment Agreement to reflect our separation from Tyco International and makes other miscellaneous clarifications to certain language in the Employment Agreement.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 25, 2008
 

Exhibit 10.1
OPTION AWARD granted on December 1, 2008 (the "Grant Date").
1. Covidien Ltd. (the "Company") has granted to you an Option to purchase the number of Shares of Common Stock set forth in the Grant Letter that issued this Option to you, subject to the provisions of these Terms and Conditions and the Plan. This Option is a Nonqualified Stock Option. The grant of this Option is conditioned expressly on your acceptance of the "Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation, and Confidentiality Agreement" (the "Agreement") that accompanies this Option Award and the Grant Letter. You must sign and return the Agreement to the Company such that the Company receives the signed Agreement by January 30, 2009. If you do not sign and return the Agreement by January 30, 2009, the Company will cancel this Option effective as of such date and you will forfeit any rights hereunder. Please contact your local Human Resources Representative if you have any questions.
Grant of Option.
2. The Exercise Price required to purchase the Shares covered by this Option is set forth in the Grant Letter.
Exercise Price.
3. Except as provided below, Shares subject to this Option will vest according to the following schedule:
Vesting.
 
If your employment terminates before full (100%) vesting, you will forfeit the unvested portion of this Option and may exercise the vested portion until the earlier of (i) the date described in Section 4 below or (ii) 90 days after your employment termination date. However, if your employment terminates due to Normal Retirement (your employment terminates on or after age 60 and the sum of your age and years of service equals at least 70), Retirement (your employment terminates on or after age 55 and the sum of your age and years of service equals at least 60), death, Disability, a Change in Control or Divestiture or Outsourcing Agreement, this Option will become vested and exercisable in accordance with the provisions of Section 7, 8 or 9, as applicable.
4. Unless this Option has been terminated or cancelled, it must be exercised before the close of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") on the day prior to the 10
Term of Option.
th
anniversary of the Grant Date. If the NYSE is not open for business on such date, this
Option will expire at the close of the NYSE's first business day that immediately precedes the day prior to the 10
th
anniversary of the Grant Date.
5. To exercise all or a portion of this Option, you must pay the Exercise Price for each Share as set forth in the Grant Letter. You may pay the Exercise Price in cash or by certified check, bank draft, wire transfer or postal or express money order if applicable law permits such exercise method at the time of exercise. You may also pay the Exercise Price by using one or more of the following methods: (i) delivering a properly executed exercise notice to the Company or its agent, together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly, within the typical settlement cycle for the sale of equity securities on the relevant trading market (or otherwise in accordance with Regulation T issued by the Federal Reserve Board), the amount of sale proceeds with respect o the portion of the Shares to be acquired having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the sum of the applicable portion of the Exercise Price being so paid; (ii) tendering (actually or by attestation) to the Company or its agent previously acquired Shares that have a Fair Market Value on the day prior to the date of exercise equal to the applicable portion of the Exercise Price being so paid; or (iii) instructing the Company to reduce the number of Shares that would otherwise be issued by such number of Shares as have in the aggregate a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the applicable portion of the Exercise Price being so paid. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may not tender any form of payment that the Company determines, in its sole discretion, could violate any applicable law, regulation or Company policy. You are not required to purchase all Shares subject to this Option at one time, but you must pay the full Exercise Price for all Shares that you elect to purchase before they will be delivered. The date of exercise of an Option shall be the date on which the Company receives the Exercise Price for such Option. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 5 to the contrary, if this Option is scheduled to expire due to the expiration of the term on the date described in Section 4 above and the Fair Market Value of a Company share on the last day of such term exceeds the Exercise Price for this Option, then you shall be treated as having instructed the Company to exercise the vested portion of this Option on the last day of such term and to pay the Exercise Price by application of the method described in (iii) above.
Payment of Exercise Price.
6. If you are entitled to exercise this Option, you may exercise it by contacting UBS Financial Services through its web site at or by calling 1-877-461-7805. If someone other than you attempts to exercise this Option (for example, because the Option is being exercised after your death), the Company will deliver the Shares only after determining that the person attempting to exercise this Option is the duly appointed executor or administrator of your estate or an individual to whom this Option has been transferred in accordance with these Terms and Conditions and the terms of the Plan.
Exercise of Option.
www.ubs.com/onesource/cov
7. Notwithstanding the vesting and exercise provisions described in Section 3, this Option will vest and remain exercisable if your Termination of Employment is a result of your Retirement, Normal Retirement, Disability or death as follows:
Retirement, Normal Retirement, Disability or Death.
(i) . If your employment terminates as a result of your Retirement (as defined in Section 3) and your Retirement occurs less than 12 months after the Grant Date, you will forfeit all Shares subject to this Option. If, however, your Retirement occurs at least 12 months after the Grant Date, then you will be entitled to pro
Retirement
rata vesting of this Option based on (A) the number of whole months completed from Grant Date through your employment termination date divided by 48 times (B) the total number of shares awarded under the Option minus (C) the number of shares that previously vested. You will be entitled to exercise this Option until the earlier of (1) the date described in Section 4 or (2) the third anniversary of your Retirement date.
(ii) . If your employment terminates as a result of your Normal Retirement (as defined in Section 3), your death or a Disability, then you will become fully vested in this Option on the date of your Normal Retirement, death or Termination of Employment due to Disability and be entitled to exercise this Option until the earlier of (A) the date described in Section 4 or (B) the third anniversary of the date of your Normal Retirement, death or Termination of Employment due to Disability, as applicable.
Normal Retirement, Disability or Death
8. Notwithstanding the vesting and exercise provisions described in Section 3, you will become fully vested in this Option on the date your employment terminates after a Change in Control and be entitled to exercise this Option until the earlier of (A) the date described in Section 4 or (B) the third anniversary of your employment termination date, if you satisfy one of the following requirements:
Termination of Employment Following a Change in Control.
(i) Within 12 months after a Change in Control, the Company terminates your employment for any reason other than Cause, Disability or death; or
(ii) Within 12 months after a Change in Control and within 60 days after one of the events listed in this Section 8(ii), you terminate your employment because (A) the Company (1) assigns or causes to be assigned to you duties inconsistent in any material respect with your position as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; (2) makes or causes to be made any material adverse change in your position (including titles and reporting relationships and level), authority, duties or responsibilities; or (3) takes or causes to be taken any other action which, in your reasonable judgment, would cause you to violate your ethical or professional obligations (after written notice of such judgment has been provided by you to the Company and the Company has been given a 15-day period within which to cure such action), or which results in a significant diminution in your position, authority, duties or responsibilities; or (B) the Company, without your consent, (1) requires you to relocate to a principal place of employment more than 50 miles from your existing place of employment; or (2) reduces your base salary, annual bonus, or retirement, welfare, stock incentive, perquisite (if any) and other benefits when taken as a whole.
9. . Notwithstanding the vesting and exercise provisions described in Section 3, and subject to the provisions of subsection (i) below, if your employment terminates as a result of a Disposition of Assets, Disposition of a Subsidiary or Outsourcing Agreement, then this Option will vest on a pro-rata basis based on (A) the number of whole months completed from Grant Date through the closing date of the applicable transaction divided by 48 times (B) the total number of shares awarded under the Option minus (C) the number of shares that previously vested. If you are entitled to pro rata vesting under this Section 9, then the vested portion of this
Termination of Employment Resulting From Divestiture or Outsourcing Agreement
Option will expire on the earlier of (1) the date described in Section 4 or (2) the third anniversary of your employment termination date.
(i) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 9, you shall not be eligible for pro-rata vesting and an extended Option expiration date if (A) your Termination of Employment occurs on or prior to the closing date of a Disposition of Assets or Disposition of a Subsidiary or such later date as is provided specifically in the applicable transaction agreement or related agreements, or on the effective date of an Outsourcing Agreement (the "Applicable Employment Date"), and (B) you are offered Comparable Employment with the buyer, successor company or outsourcing agent, as applicable, but do not commence such employment on the Applicable Employment Date.
(ii) For purposes of Section 9(i), (A) "Comparable Employment" means employment at a location that is no more than 50 miles from your job location at the time of your Termination of Employment that has a base salary and bonus target that is at least equal to your base salary and bonus target in effect immediately prior to your Termination of Employment; (B) "Disposition of Assets" means the disposition by the Company or a Subsidiary of all or a portion of the assets used by the Company or Subsidiary in a trade or business to an unrelated individual or entity; (C) "Disposition of a Subsidiary" means the disposition by the Company or Subsidiary of its interest in a subsidiary or controlled entity to an unrelated individual or entity, provided that such subsidiary or controlled entity ceases to be a member of the Company's controlled group as a result of such disposition; and (D) "Outsourcing Agreement" means a written agreement between the Company or Subsidiary and an unrelated third party ("Outsourcing Agent") pursuant to which (1) the Company or Subsidiary transfers the performance of services previously performed by Company or Subsidiary employees to the Outsourcing Agent, and (2) the Outsourcing Agreement includes an obligation of the Outsourcing Agent to offer employment to any employee whose employment is being terminated as a result of or in connection with said Outsourcing Agreement.
10. The Company has the right, prior to the issuance or delivery of any Shares in connection with the exercise of this Option, to withhold or require from you the amount necessary to satisfy applicable tax requirements, as determined by the Committee. The methods described in Section 5 may also be used by you to pay, or by the Company to satisfy, your withholding tax obligation.
Withholdings.
11. You generally may not transfer this Option or any interest in this Option except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. However, you may transfer this Option to a "family member" (as defined in Section 7.1(b) of the Plan), provided that (i) you do not receive any consideration for the transfer and (ii) you furnish the Company's Vice President and Corporate Secretary with written notice of the transfer at least ten (10) business days in advance of such transfer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any transfer of this Option may be delayed or prohibited if, in the sole discretion of the Company's Vice President and Corporate Secretary, such transfer would violate, or would have the potential to violate, applicable law, regulation or Company policy. If this Option is transferred pursuant to this provision, it will continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions that applied immediately prior to the transfer. This Option may be exercised by the transferee only to the same extent that you could have exercised this Option had no transfer occurred.
Transfer of Option.
12. You will forfeit all or a portion of this Option if your employment terminates under the circumstances described below:
Forfeiture of Option.
(i) If the Company or Subsidiary terminates your employment for Cause, including without limitation a termination as a result of your violation of the Company's Code of Ethical Conduct, then the Company will immediately rescind the unvested portion of this Option and any vested but unexercised portion of this Option and you will immediately forfeit any and all rights you have remaining at such time with respect to this Option. Also, you hereby agree and promise to deliver to the Company immediately upon your Termination of Employment for Cause, Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, cash) equal in value to the amount of any profit you realized upon the exercise of any portion of this Option during the 12-month period that occurs immediately prior to your Termination of Employment for Cause.
(ii) If, after your Termination of Employment, the Committee determines in its sole discretion that while you were a Company or Subsidiary employee you engaged in activity that would have constituted grounds for the Company or Subsidiary to terminate your employment for Cause, then the Company will immediately rescind the unvested portion of this Option and any vested but unexercised portion of this Option and you will immediately forfeit any and all rights you have remaining on the date that the Committee makes such determination with respect to this Option. Also, you hereby agree and promise to deliver to the Company immediately upon the date the Committee determines that you could have been terminated for Cause, Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, cash) equal in value to the amount of any profit you realized upon the exercise of any portion of this Option during the period that begins 12 months immediately prior to your Termination of Employment and ends on the date the Committee determines that you could have been terminated for Cause.
(iii) If the Committee determines in its sole discretion that at anytime after your Termination of Employment and prior to the second anniversary of your Termination of Employment you (A) disclosed confidential or proprietary information related to any business of the Company or Subsidiary or (B) entered into an employment or consultation arrangement (including any arrangement for employment or service as an agent, partner, stockholder, consultant, officer or director) with any entity or person engaged in a business and (1) such employment or consultation arrangement would likely (in the Committee's sole discretion) result in the disclosure of confidential or proprietary information related to any business of the Company or a Subsidiary to a business that is competitive with any Company or Subsidiary business as to which you had access to strategic or confidential information and (2) the Committee has not approved the arrangement in writing, then any portion of this Option that you have not exercised (whether vested or unvested) will immediately be rescinded and you will forfeit any rights you have with respect to this Option as of the date of the Committee's determination. Also, you hereby agree and promise to deliver to the Company, immediately upon the Committee's determination date, Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, cash) equal in value to the amount of any profit you realized upon the exercise of any portion of this Option during the period that begins 12 months immediately prior to your Termination of Employment and ends on the date of the Committee's determination.
13. In the event of any stock split, reverse stock split, dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities or other property), extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, reorganization, combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities, the issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities, or other similar corporate transaction or event, the Committee shall adjust the number and kind of Shares covered by this Option, the Exercise Price and other relevant provisions to the extent necessary to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be provided by this Option. Any such determinations and adjustments made by the Committee will be binding on all persons.
Adjustments.
14. Exercise of this Option is subject to the conditions that, to the extent required at the time of exercise:
Restrictions on Exercise.
(i) The Shares covered by this Option will be duly listed, upon official notice of issuance, on the NYSE; and
(ii) A Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the Shares will be effective or an exemption from registration will apply.
The Company will not be required to deliver any Shares until all applicable federal and state laws and regulations have been complied with and all legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery of the Shares have been approved by the Company's legal counsel.
15. By accepting this Option, you acknowledge that you have read and understand the Company's Insider Trading Policy and are aware of and understand your obligations under federal securities laws with respect to trading in the Company's securities. You also hereby agree not to use the Company's "cashless exercise" program (or any successor program) at any time when you possess material nonpublic information with respect to the Company (including Subsidiaries) or when using the program would otherwise result in a violation of applicable securities law. The Company has the right to recover, or receive reimbursement for, any compensation or profit realized on the exercise of this Option or by the disposition of Shares received upon exercise of this Option to the extent that the Company has a right of recovery or reimbursement under applicable securities laws.
Disposition of Securities.
16. The vesting and exercise of this Option, the disposition of any Shares received upon exercise of this Option, and the treatment of any gain on the disposition of such Shares are subject to the terms of the Plan and any rules that the Committee prescribes. The Plan document, as amended from time to time, is incorporated into this Terms and Conditions document. Capitalized terms used herein are defined in the Plan. If there is any conflict between the terms of the Plan and these Terms and Conditions, the Plan's terms govern. By accepting this Option Award, you hereby acknowledge receipt of the Plan, as in effect on the Grant Date.
Plan Terms Govern.
17. To comply with applicable law and to administer this Option appropriately, the Company and its agents may accumulate, hold and process your personal data and/or "sensitive personal data" within the meaning of applicable law. Such data includes, but is not limited to, the information provided to you as part of the grant package and any changes
Personal Data.
thereto (e.g., details of options awarded, vested, unvested or expired), other appropriate personal and financial data about you (e.g., name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number, nationality and job title), and information about your participation in the Plan and Shares obtained under the Plan from time to time. By accepting this Option, you hereby give your explicit consent to the Company's accumulating and processing personal data and/or sensitive personal data as necessary or appropriate for Plan administration. If applicable, you also hereby give your explicit consent to the Company's transfer of personal data and/or sensitive personal data outside the country in which you work or reside and to the United States. The legal persons for whom your personal data are intended include the Company, its Subsidiaries (or former Subsidiaries as are deemed necessary), the outside Plan administrator, and any other person that the Company retains or utilizes for compensation planning or Plan administration purposes. You have the right to review and correct your personal data by contacting your local Human Resources Representative. You hereby acknowledge your understanding that the transfer of the information outlined here is important to Plan administration and that failure to consent to the transmission of such information may limit or prohibit your participation in the Plan.
18. By accepting this Option, you agree that you are bound by the terms of the Plan and these Terms and Conditions and acknowledge that this Option is granted in the Company's sole discretion and is not considered part of any employment contract or your ordinary or expected salary or other compensation. You understand that the grant of options under the Plan is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of any options, or benefits in lieu of any options, even if options have been granted repeatedly in the past. This Option and any gains received hereunder are not considered part of your salary or compensation for purposes of any pension or retirement benefits or for purposes of calculating any termination, severance, redundancy, resignation, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, life or accident insurance benefits or similar payments. If the Company or Subsidiary terminates your employment for any reason, you agree that you will not be entitled to damages for breach of contract, dismissal or compensation for loss of office or otherwise to any sum, Shares, Options or other benefits to compensate you for the loss or diminution in value of any actual or prospective rights, benefits or expectation under or in relation to the Plan.
No Contract of Employment or Promise of Future Grants.
19. Nothing in these Terms and Conditions or the Plan grants to you any right to continued employment with the Company or any Subsidiary or to interfere in any way with the Company or Subsidiary's right to terminate your employment at any time and for any reason. Payment of Shares is not secured by a trust, insurance contract or other funding medium, and you do not have any interest in any fund or specific Company asset by reason of this Option. You have no rights as a stockholder of the Company pursuant to this Option until Shares are actually delivered to you.
Limitations.
20. These Terms and Conditions and the Plan constitute the entire understanding between you and the Company regarding this Option. These Terms and Conditions supersede any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning this Option. These Terms and Conditions may not be modified, altered or changed except by the Committee (or its delegate) in writing and pursuant to the terms of the Plan.
Entire Agreement and Amendment.
21. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of these Terms and Conditions will not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions of these Terms and Conditions, which will remain in full force and effect. Moreover, if any provision is found to be excessively broad in duration, scope or covered activity, the provision will be construed so as to be enforceable to the maximum extent compatible with applicable law.
Severability.
22. Notwithstanding any other provision of these Terms and Conditions to the contrary, in the event that all or a portion of this Option becomes subject to Code Section 409A, the provisions contained in Section 7.12 of the Plan shall govern and shall supersede any applicable provision of these Terms and Conditions.
Code Section 409A Compliance.
23. By signing and returning the Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation, and Confidentiality Agreement described in Section 1, you accept this Option and agree to the following:
Acceptance.
(i) You have carefully read, fully understand and agree to all of the terms and conditions contained in the Plan and these Terms and Conditions; and
(ii) You understand and agree that the Plan and these Terms and Conditions constitute the entire understanding between you and the Company regarding this Option, and that any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning this Option are replaced and superseded.
If you do not sign and return the Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation, and Confidentiality Agreement described in Section 1 to the Company, such that the Company is in actual receipt of the signed Agreement by January 30, 2009, you will be deemed to have not accepted this Option, the Company will cancel this Option effective as of such date and you will forfeit any rights hereunder.

Exhibit 10.2
RESTRICTED UNIT AWARD granted on December 1, 2008 (the "Grant Date").
1. Covidien Ltd. (the "Company") has granted to you Restricted Units, the amount of which is set forth in the Grant Letter, subject to the provisions of these Terms and Conditions and the Plan. The Company will hold the Restricted Units in a bookkeeping account on your behalf until such units become payable or are forfeited or cancelled. The grant of these Restricted Units is conditioned expressly on your acceptance of the "Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation, and Confidentiality Agreement" (the "Agreement") that accompanies this Restricted Unit Award and the Grant Letter. You must sign and return the Agreement to the Company such that the Company receives the signed Agreement by January 30, 2009. If you do not sign and return the Agreement by January 30, 2009, the Company will cancel these Restricted Units effective as of such date and you will forfeit any rights hereunder. Please contact your local Human Resources Representative if you have any questions.
Grant of Restricted Units.
2. Each Restricted Unit represents one (1) Share of Common Stock and vested Restricted Units will be redeemed solely for Shares, subject to Section 10.
Amount and Form of Payment.
3. Each unvested Restricted Unit will be credited with a Dividend Equivalent Unit ("DEU") for any cash or stock dividends distributed by the Company on a Share of Common Stock. DEUs will be calculated at the same dividend rate paid to other holders of Common Stock and will vest in accordance with the vesting schedule applicable to the underlying Restricted Units.
Dividends
.
4. Except as provided below, Restricted Units subject to this Award will vest according to the following schedule:
Vesting.
 
If your employment terminates before full (100%) vesting, you will forfeit the unvested portion of Restricted Units. However, if your employment terminates due to Normal Retirement (you terminate employment on or after age 60 and the sum of your age and years of service equals at least 70), Retirement (you terminate employment on or after age 55 and the sum of your age and years of service equals at least 60), death, Disability, a Change in Control or
Divestiture or Outsourcing Agreement, these Restricted Units will become vested in accordance with the provisions of Section 5, 6 or 7, as applicable.
5. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions described in Section 4, Restricted Units subject to this Award will vest if your Termination of Employment is a result of your Retirement, Normal Retirement, Disability or death as follows:
Retirement, Normal Retirement, Disability or Death.
(i) If your employment terminates as a result of your Retirement (as defined in Section 4) and your Retirement occurs less than 12 months after the Grant Date, you will forfeit all Restricted Units subject to this Award. If, however, your Retirement occurs at least 12 months after the Grant Date, then you will be entitled to pro rata vesting of Restricted Units based on (A) the number of whole months completed from Grant Date through your employment termination date divided by 48 times (B) the total number of Restricted Units awarded under this Award minus (C) the number of Restricted Units that previously vested.
Retirement
.
(ii) If your employment terminates as a result of your Normal Retirement (as defined in Section 4), your death or a Disability, then you will become fully vested in all Restricted Units subject to this Award on the date of your Normal Retirement, death or termination of employment due to Disability.
Normal Retirement, Disability or Death
.
6. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions described in Section 4, you will become fully vested in Restricted Units subject to this Award on the date your employment terminates after a Change in Control if you satisfy one of the following requirements:
Termination of Employment Following a Change in Control.
(i) Within 12 months after a Change in Control, the Company terminates your employment for any reason other than Cause, Disability or death; or
(ii) Within 12 months after a Change in Control and within 60 days after one of the events listed in this Section 6(ii), you terminate your employment because (A) the Company (1) assigns or causes to be assigned to you duties inconsistent in any material respect with your position as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; (2) makes or causes to be made any material adverse change in your position (including titles and reporting relationships and level), authority, duties or responsibilities; or (3) takes or causes to be taken any other action which, in your reasonable judgment, would cause you to violate your ethical or professional obligations (after written notice of such judgment has been provided by you to the Company and the Company has been given a 15-day period within which to cure such action), or which results in a significant diminution in your position, authority, duties or responsibilities; or (B) the Company, without your consent, (1) requires you to relocate to a principal place of employment more than 50 miles from your existing place of employment; or (2) reduces your base salary, annual bonus, or retirement, welfare, stock incentive, perquisite (if any) and other benefits when taken as a whole.
7. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions described in Section 4, and subject to the provisions of subsection (i) below, if your employment terminates as a result of a Disposition of Assets, Disposition of a Subsidiary or Outsourcing Agreement, then Restricted Units subject to this Award will vest on a pro-rata basis based on (A) the number of whole months completed from Grant Date through the closing date of the applicable transaction divided by 48 times (B) the total number of Restricted Units issued under this Award minus (C) the number of Restricted Units that previously vested.
Termination of Employment Resulting From Divestiture or Outsourcing Agreement
.
(i) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 7, you shall not be eligible for pro-rata vesting if (A) your Termination of Employment occurs on or prior to the closing date of a Disposition of Assets or Disposition of a Subsidiary or such later date as is provided specifically in the applicable transaction agreement or related agreements, or on the effective date of an Outsourcing Agreement (the "Applicable Employment Date"), and (B) you are offered Comparable Employment with the buyer, successor company or outsourcing agent, as applicable, but do not commence such employment on the Applicable Employment Date.
(ii) For purposes of Section 7(i), (A) "Comparable Employment" means employment at a location that is no more than 50 miles from your job location at the time of your Termination of Employment that has a base salary and bonus target that is at least equal to your base salary and bonus target in effect immediately prior to your Termination of Employment; (B) "Disposition of Assets" means the disposition by the Company or a Subsidiary of all or a portion of the assets used by the Company or Subsidiary in a trade or business to an unrelated individual or entity; (C) "Disposition of a Subsidiary" means the disposition by the Company or Subsidiary of its interest in a subsidiary or controlled entity to an unrelated individual or entity, provided that such subsidiary or controlled entity ceases to be a member of the Company's controlled group as a result of such disposition; and (D) "Outsourcing Agreement" means a written agreement between the Company or Subsidiary and an unrelated third party ("Outsourcing Agent") pursuant to which (1) the Company or Subsidiary transfers the performance of services previously performed by Company or Subsidiary employees to the Outsourcing Agent, and (2) the Outsourcing Agreement includes an obligation of the Outsourcing Agent to offer employment to any employee whose employment is being terminated as a result of or in connection with said Outsourcing Agreement.
8. The Company has the right, prior to the issuance or delivery of any Shares on your Restricted Units, to withhold or require from you the amount necessary to satisfy applicable tax requirements, as determined by the Committee. If you have not satisfied your tax withholding requirements in a timely manner, the Company has the right to sell the number of Shares necessary to satisfy such requirements.
Withholdings.
9. You may not transfer this Award or any interest in Restricted Units except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Any other attempt to transfer this Award or any interest in Restricted Units is null and void.
Transfer of Award.
10. You will forfeit all or a portion of the Restricted Units subject to this Award if your employment terminates under the circumstances described below:
Forfeiture of Award.
(i) If the Company or Subsidiary terminates your employment for Cause, including without limitation a termination as a result of your violation of the Company's Code of Ethical Conduct, then the Company will immediately rescind any unvested Restricted Units subject to this Award and you will immediately forfeit any and all rights you have remaining at such time with respect to this Award. Also, you hereby agree and promise to deliver to the Company immediately upon your Termination of Employment for Cause, Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, cash) equal in value to the amount of any Restricted Units that vested during the 12-month period that occurs immediately prior to your Termination of Employment for Cause.
(ii) If, after your Termination of Employment, the Committee determines in its sole discretion that while you were a Company or Subsidiary employee you engaged in activity that would have constituted grounds for the Company or Subsidiary to terminate your employment for Cause, then the Company will immediately rescind any unvested Restricted Units subject to this Award and you will immediately forfeit any and all rights you have remaining on the date that the Committee makes such determination with respect to this Award. Also, you hereby agree and promise to deliver to the Company immediately upon the date the Committee determines that you could have been terminated for Cause, Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, cash) equal in value to the amount of any Restricted Units that vested during the period that begins 12 months immediately prior to your Termination of Employment and ends on the date the Committee determines that you could have been terminated for Cause.
(iii) If the Committee determines in its sole discretion that at anytime after your Termination of Employment and prior to the second anniversary of your Termination of Employment you (A) disclosed confidential or proprietary information related to any business of the Company or Subsidiary or (B) entered into an employment or consultation arrangement (including any arrangement for employment or service as an agent, partner, stockholder, consultant, officer or director) with any entity or person engaged in a business and (1) such employment or consultation arrangement would likely (in the Committee's sole discretion) result in the disclosure of confidential or proprietary information related to any business of the Company or a Subsidiary to a business that is competitive with any Company or Subsidiary business as to which you had access to strategic or confidential information and (2) the Committee has not approved the arrangement in writing, then the Committee will rescind any unvested Restricted Units subject to this Award and you will immediately forfeit any and all rights you have remaining on the date that the Committee makes such determination with respect to this Award. Also, you hereby agree and promise to deliver to the Company immediately upon the Committee's determination date Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, cash) equal in value to the amount of any Restricted Units that vested during the period that begins 12 months immediately prior to your Termination of Employment and ends on the date of the Committee's determination.
11. In the event of any stock split, reverse stock split, dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities or other property), extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, reorganization, combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities, the issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities, or other similar corporate transaction or event, the Committee shall adjust the number and kind of Shares covered by this Award and other relevant provisions to the extent necessary to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be provided by this Award. Any such determinations and adjustments made by the Committee will be binding on all persons.
Adjustments.
12. Payment of Shares for Restricted Units is subject to the conditions that, to the extent required at the time of delivery of such Shares:
Restrictions on Payment of Shares.
(i) The Shares underlying the Restricted Units will be duly listed, upon official notice of redemption, on the NYSE; and
(ii) A Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the Shares will be effective or an exemption from registration will apply.
The Company will not be required to deliver any Shares until all applicable federal and state laws and regulations have been complied with and all legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery of the Shares have been approved by the Company's legal counsel.
13. By accepting this Award, you acknowledge that you have read and understand the Company's Insider Trading Policy and are aware of and understand your obligations under federal securities laws with respect to trading in the Company's securities. The Company has the right to recover, or receive reimbursement for, any compensation or profit you realized upon the disposition of Shares received for Restricted Units to the extent that the Company has a right of recovery or reimbursement under applicable securities laws.
Disposition of Securities.
14. The redemption of Restricted Units, the disposition of any Shares received for Restricted Units and the treatment of any gain on the disposition of these Shares are subject to the terms of the Plan and any rules that the Committee prescribes. The Plan document, as amended from time to time, is incorporated into this Terms and Conditions document. Capitalized terms used herein are defined in the Plan. If there is any conflict between the terms of the Plan and these Terms and Conditions, the Plan's terms govern. By accepting the Award, you hereby acknowledge receipt of the Plan and the prospectus, as in effect on the Grant Date.
Plan Terms Govern.
15. To comply with applicable law and to administer this Award appropriately, the Company and its agents may accumulate, hold and process your personal data and/or "sensitive personal data" within the meaning of applicable law. Such data includes, but is not limited to, the information provided to you as part of the grant package and any changes thereto (e.g., details of the Restricted Units, including amounts awarded, unvested or vested), other appropriate personal and financial data about you (e.g., name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number, nationality and job title), and information about
Personal Data.
your participation in the Plan and Shares obtained under the Plan from time to time. By accepting this Award, you hereby give your explicit consent to the Company's accumulating and processing personal data and/or sensitive personal data as necessary or appropriate for Plan administration. If applicable, you also hereby give your explicit consent to the Company's transfer of personal data and/or sensitive personal data outside the country in which you work or reside and to the United States. The legal persons for whom your personal data are intended include the Company, its Subsidiaries (or former Subsidiaries as are deemed necessary), the outside Plan administrator, and any other person that the Company retains or utilizes for compensation planning or Plan administration purposes. You have the right to review and correct your personal data by contacting your local Human Resources Representative. You hereby acknowledge your understanding that the transfer of the information outlined here is important to Plan administration and that failure to consent to the transmission of such information may limit or prohibit your participation in the Plan.
16. By accepting this Award, you agree that you are bound by the terms of the Plan and these Terms and Conditions and acknowledge that this Award is granted in the Company's sole discretion and is not considered part of any employment contract or your ordinary or expected salary or other compensation. You understand that the grant of restricted units under the Plan is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of any restricted units, or benefits in lieu of restricted units, even if restricted units have been granted repeatedly in the past. This Award and any gains received hereunder are not considered part of your salary or compensation for purposes of any pension or retirement benefits or for purposes of calculating any termination, severance, redundancy, resignation, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, life or accident insurance benefits or similar payments. If the Company or Subsidiary terminates your employment for any reason, you agree that you will not be entitled to damages for breach of contract, dismissal or compensation for loss of office or otherwise to any sum, Shares, Options or other benefits to compensate you for the loss or diminution in value of any actual or prospective rights, benefits or expectation under or in relation to the Plan.
No Contract of Employment or Promise of Future Grants.
17. Nothing in these Terms and Conditions or the Plan grants to you any right to continued employment with the Company or any Subsidiary or to interfere in any way with the Company or Subsidiary's right to terminate your employment at any time and for any reason. Payment of Shares is not secured by a trust, insurance contract or other funding medium, and you do not have any interest in any fund or specific Company asset by reason of this Award. You have no rights as a stockholder of the Company pursuant to this Award until Shares are actually delivered to you.
Limitations.
18. These Terms and Conditions and the Plan constitute the entire understanding between you and the Company regarding this Award. These Terms and Conditions supersede any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning this Award. These Terms and Conditions may not be modified, altered or changed except by the Committee (or its delegate) in writing and pursuant to the terms of the Plan.
Entire Agreement and Amendment.
19. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of these Terms and Conditions will not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions of these
Severability.
Terms and Conditions, which will remain in full force and effect. Moreover, if any provision is found to be excessively broad in duration, scope or covered activity, the provision will be construed so as to be enforceable to the maximum extent compatible with applicable law.
20. Notwithstanding any other provision of these Terms and Conditions to the contrary, in the event that all or a portion of these Restricted Units become subject to Code Section 409A, the provisions contained in Section 7.12 of the Plan shall govern and shall supersede any applicable provision of these Terms and Conditions.
Code Section 409A Compliance.
21. By signing and returning the Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation, and Confidentiality Agreement described in Section 1, you accept these Restricted Units and agree to the following:
Acceptance
.
(i) You have carefully read, fully understand and agree to all of the terms and conditions contained in the Plan and these Terms and Conditions; and
(ii) You understand and agree that the Plan and these Terms and Conditions constitute the entire understanding between you and the Company regarding this Award, and that any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning this Award are replaced and superseded.
If you do not sign and return the Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation, and Confidentiality Agreement described in Section 1 to the Company, such that the Company is in actual receipt of the signed Agreement by January 30, 2009, you will be deemed to have not accepted these Restricted Units, the Company will cancel all Restricted Units subject to this Award effective as of such date and you will forfeit any rights hereunder.

Exhibit 10.3
PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AWARD granted on December 1, 2008 (the "Grant Date").
1. Covidien Ltd. (the "Company") has granted to you Performance Share Units, the target amount of which is set forth in the Grant Letter, subject to the provisions of these Terms and Conditions and the Plan. The Company will hold the Performance Share Units in a bookkeeping account on your behalf until such units become payable or are forfeited or cancelled. The grant of these Performance Share Units is conditioned expressly on your acceptance of the "Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation, and Confidentiality Agreement" (the "Agreement") that accompanies this Performance Share Unit Award and the Grant Letter. You must sign and return the Agreement to the Company such that the Company receives the signed Agreement by January 30, 2009. If you do not sign and return the Agreement by January 30, 2009, the Company will cancel these Performance Share Units effective as of such date and you will forfeit any rights hereunder. Please contact your local Human Resources Representative if you have any questions.
Grant of Performance Share Units.
2. Each Performance Share Unit represents one (1) Share of Common Stock and any Performance Share Units that vest pursuant to Section 4 will be redeemed solely for Shares, subject to Section 10.
Amount and Form of Payment.
3. . Each unvested Performance Share Unit will be credited with a Dividend Equivalent Unit ("DEU") for any cash or stock dividends distributed by the Company on a Share of Common Stock. DEUs will be calculated at the same dividend rate paid to other holders of Common Stock and will be adjusted and vest in accordance with the adjustment and vesting provisions applicable to the underlying Performance Share Units.
Dividends
4.
Vesting.
(i) Except as provided below, Performance Share Units subject to this Award will fully vest on the Committee Certification Date (as defined in the Appendix attached hereto), provided that you are an employee of the Company or Subsidiary on the Committee Certification Date. The target number of Performance Share Units specified in the Grant Letter shall be adjusted at the end of the performance cycle based on the attained level of achievement for the FY09-FY11 performance cycle (as described in the Appendix attached hereto).
(ii) If your employment terminates before full vesting, you will forfeit the unvested portion of Performance Share Units. However, if your employment terminates due to Normal Retirement (you terminate employment on or after age 60 and the sum of your age and years of service equals at least 70), Retirement (you terminate employment on or after age 55 and the sum of your age and years of service equals at least 60), death, Disability, a Change in Control or Divestiture or Outsourcing Agreement, these Performance Share Units may become vested in accordance with the provisions of Section 5, 6 or 7, as applicable.
5. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions described in Section 4, these Performance Share Units may become vested if your Termination of Employment is a result of your Retirement, Normal Retirement, Disability or death as follows:
Retirement, Normal Retirement, Disability or Death.
(i) If your employment terminates as a result of your Retirement (as defined in Section 4(ii)) and your Retirement occurs less than 12 months after the Grant Date, you will forfeit all Performance Share Units subject to this Award. If, however, your Retirement occurs at least 12 months after the Grant Date and, had you continued in employment through the Committee Certification Date, you would have become fully vested in Performance Share Units subject to this Award, then you shall be entitled to pro rata vesting in Performance Share Units that would have become fully vested based on (A) the number of whole months completed from Grant Date through your employment termination date divided by 36 times (B) the total number of Performance Share Units that would have become fully vested after adjustment for the attained level of achievement. If you are entitled to pro rata vesting of any Performance Share Units pursuant to this Section 5(i), such vesting shall occur at the same time and in the same manner as the vesting of active employees in performance share units attributable to the FY09-FY11 performance cycle (i.e., upon the Committee Certification Date) and shall, in no event, become vested or delivered prior to such time.
Retirement.
(ii) If your employment terminates as a result of your Normal Retirement (as defined in Section 4(ii)), your death or a Disability and, had you continued in employment through the Committee Certification Date, you would have become fully vested in Performance Share Units subject to this Award, then you will become fully vested in the total number of Performance Share Units that would have become fully vested after adjustment for the attained level of achievement. If you are entitled to full vesting of any Performance Share Units pursuant to this Section 5(ii), such vesting shall occur at the same time and in the same manner as the vesting of active employees in performance share units attributable to the FY09-FY11 performance cycle (i.e., upon the Committee Certification Date) and shall, in no event, become vested or delivered prior to such time.
Normal Retirement, Disability or Death.
6. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions described in Section 4, these Performance Share Units may become vested in the manner described in Section 6(iii) below if your employment terminates after a Change in Control and you satisfy either Section 6(i) or Section 6(ii).
Termination of Employment Following a Change in Control.
(i) Within 12 months after a Change in Control, the Company terminates your employment for any reason other than Cause, Disability or death; or
(ii) Within 12 months after a Change in Control and within 60 days after one of the events listed in this Section 6(ii), you terminate your employment because (A) the Company (1) assigns or causes to be assigned to you duties inconsistent in any material respect with your position as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; (2) makes or causes to be made any material adverse change in your position (including titles and reporting relationships and level), authority, duties or responsibilities; or (3) takes or causes to be taken any other action which, in your reasonable judgment, would cause you to violate your ethical or professional obligations (after written notice of such judgment has been provided by you to the Company and the Company has been given a 15-day period within which to cure such action), or which results in a significant diminution in your position, authority, duties or responsibilities; or (B) the Company, without your consent, (1) requires you to relocate to a principal place of employment more than 50 miles from your existing place of employment; or (2) reduces your base salary, annual bonus, or retirement, welfare, stock incentive, perquisite (if any) and other benefits when taken as a whole.
(iii) If your employment terminates after a Change in Control in a manner that satisfies either Section 6(i) or Section 6(ii) above and, had you continued in employment through the Committee Certification Date you would have become fully vested in Performance Share Units subject to this Award, then you will become fully vested in the total number of Performance Share Units that would have become fully vested after adjustment for the attained level of achievement. If you are entitled to full vesting of any Performance Share Units pursuant to this Section 6(iii), such vesting shall occur at the same time and in the same manner as the vesting of active employees in performance share units attributable to the FY09-FY11 performance cycle (i.e., upon the Committee Certification Date) and shall, in no event, become vested or delivered prior to such time.
7. . Notwithstanding the vesting provisions described in Section 4, and subject to the provisions of subsection (i) below, if your employment terminates as a result of a Disposition of Assets, Disposition of a Subsidiary or Outsourcing Agreement and, had you continued in employment through the Committee Certification Date you would have become fully vested in Performance Share Units subject to this Award, then you shall be entitled to pro rata vesting in Performance Share Units that would have become fully vested based on (A) the number of whole months completed from Grant Date through your employment termination date divided by 36 times (B) the total number of Performance Share Units that would have become vested after adjustment for the attained level of achievement. If you are entitled to pro rata vesting of any Performance Share Units pursuant to this Section 7, such vesting shall occur at the same time and in the same manner as the vesting of active employees in performance share units attributable to the FY09-FY11 performance cycle (i.e., upon the Committee Certification Date and shall, in no event, become vested or delivered prior to such time.
Termination of Employment Resulting From Divestiture or Outsourcing Agreement
(i) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 7, you shall not be eligible for such pro-rata vesting if (A) your Termination of Employment occurs on or prior to the closing date of a Disposition of Assets or Disposition of a Subsidiary or such
later date as is provided specifically in the applicable transaction agreement or related agreements, or on the effective date of an Outsourcing Agreement (the "Applicable Employment Date"), and (B) you are offered Comparable Employment with the buyer, successor company or outsourcing agent, as applicable, but do not commence such employment on the Applicable Employment Date.
(ii) For purposes of Section 7(i), (A) "Comparable Employment" means employment at a location that is no more than 50 miles from your job location at the time of your Termination of Employment that has a base salary and bonus target that is at least equal to your base salary and bonus target in effect immediately prior to your Termination of Employment; (B) "Disposition of Assets" means the disposition by the Company or a Subsidiary of all or a portion of the assets used by the Company or Subsidiary in a trade or business to an unrelated individual or entity; (C) "Disposition of a Subsidiary" means the disposition by the Company or Subsidiary of its interest in a subsidiary or controlled entity to an unrelated individual or entity, provided that such subsidiary or controlled entity ceases to be a member of the Company's controlled group as a result of such disposition; and (D) "Outsourcing Agreement" means a written agreement between the Company or Subsidiary and an unrelated third party ("Outsourcing Agent") pursuant to which (1) the Company or Subsidiary transfers the performance of services previously performed by Company or Subsidiary employees to the Outsourcing Agent, and (2) the Outsourcing Agreement includes an obligation of the Outsourcing Agent to offer employment to any employee whose employment is being terminated as a result of or in connection with said Outsourcing Agreement.
8. The Company has the right, prior to the issuance or delivery of any Shares on your Performance Share Units, to withhold or require from you the amount necessary to satisfy applicable tax requirements, as determined by the Committee. If you have not satisfied your tax withholding requirements in a timely manner, the Company has the right to sell the number of Shares necessary to satisfy such requirements.
Withholdings.
9. You may not transfer this Award or any interest in Performance Share Units except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Any other attempt to transfer this Award or any interest in Performance Share Units is null and void.
Transfer of Award.
10. You will forfeit all or a portion of the Performance Share Units subject to this Award if your employment terminates under the circumstances described below:
Forfeiture of Award.
(i) If the Company or Subsidiary terminates your employment for Cause, including without limitation a termination as a result of your violation of the Company's Code of Ethical Conduct, then the Company will immediately rescind any unvested Performance Share Units subject to this Award and you will immediately forfeit any and all rights you have remaining at such time with respect to this Award. Also, you hereby agree and promise to deliver to the Company immediately upon your Termination of Employment for Cause, Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, cash) equal in value to the amount of any Performance Share Units that vested during the 12-month period that occurs immediately prior to your Termination of Employment for Cause.
(ii) If, after your Termination of Employment, the Committee determines in its sole discretion that while you were a Company or Subsidiary employee you engaged in activity that would have constituted grounds for the Company or Subsidiary to terminate your employment for Cause, then the Company will immediately rescind any unvested Performance Share Units subject to this Award and you will immediately forfeit any and all rights you have remaining on the date that the Committee makes such determination with respect to this Award. Also, you hereby agree and promise to deliver to the Company immediately upon the date the Committee determines that you could have been terminated for Cause, Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, cash) equal in value to the amount of any Performance Share Units that vested during the period that begins 12 months immediately prior to your Termination of Employment and ends on the date the Committee determines that you could have been terminated for Cause.
(iii) If the Committee determines in its sole discretion that at anytime after your Termination of Employment and prior to the second anniversary of your Termination of Employment you (A) disclosed confidential or proprietary information related to any business of the Company or Subsidiary or (B) entered into an employment or consultation arrangement (including any arrangement for employment or service as an agent, partner, stockholder, consultant, officer or director) with any entity or person engaged in a business and (1) such employment or consultation arrangement would likely (in the Committee's sole discretion) result in the disclosure of confidential or proprietary information related to any business of the Company or a Subsidiary to a business that is competitive with any Company or Subsidiary business as to which you had access to strategic or confidential information and (2) the Committee has not approved the arrangement in writing, then the Committee will rescind any unvested Performance Share Units subject to this Award and you will immediately forfeit any and all rights you have remaining on the date that the Committee makes such determination with respect to this Award. Also, you hereby agree and promise to deliver to the Company immediately upon the Committee's determination date Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, cash) equal in value to the amount of any Performance Share Units that vested during the period that begins 12 months immediately prior to your Termination of Employment and ends on the date of the Committee's determination.
11. In the event of any stock split, reverse stock split, dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities or other property), extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, reorganization, combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities, the issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities, or other similar corporate transaction or event, the Committee shall adjust the number and kind of Shares covered by this Award and other relevant provisions to the extent necessary to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be provided by this Award. Any such determinations and adjustments made by the Committee will be binding on all persons.
Adjustments.
12. Payment of Shares for Performance Share Units is subject to the conditions that, to the extent required at the time of delivery of such Shares:
Restrictions on Payment of Shares.
(i) The Shares underlying the Performance Share Units will be duly listed, upon official notice of redemption, on the NYSE; and
(ii) A Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the Shares will be effective or an exemption from registration will apply.
The Company will not be required to deliver any Shares until all applicable federal and state laws and regulations have been complied with and all legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery of the Shares have been approved by the Company's legal counsel.
13. By accepting this Award, you acknowledge that you have read and understand the Company's Insider Trading Policy and are aware of and understand your obligations under federal securities laws with respect to trading in the Company's securities. The Company has the right to recover, or receive reimbursement for, any compensation or profit you realized upon the disposition of Shares received for Performance Share Units to the extent that the Company has a right of recovery or reimbursement under applicable securities laws.
Disposition of Securities.
14. The redemption of Performance Share Units, the disposition of any Shares received for Performance Share Units and the treatment of any gain on the disposition of these Shares are subject to the terms of the Plan and any rules that the Committee prescribes. The Plan document, as amended from time to time, is incorporated into this Terms and Conditions document. Capitalized terms used herein are defined in the Plan. If there is any conflict between the terms of the Plan and these Terms and Conditions, the Plan's terms govern. By accepting the Award, you hereby acknowledge receipt of the Plan and the prospectus, as in effect on the Grant Date.
Plan Terms Govern.
15. To comply with applicable law and to administer this Award appropriately, the Company and its agents may accumulate, hold and process your personal data and/or "sensitive personal data" within the meaning of applicable law. Such data includes, but is not limited to, the information provided to you as part of the grant package and any changes thereto (e.g., details of the Performance Share Units, including amounts awarded, unvested or vested), other appropriate personal and financial data about you (e.g., name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number, nationality and job title), and information about your participation in the Plan and Shares obtained under the Plan from time to time. By accepting this Award, you hereby give your explicit consent to the Company's accumulating and processing personal data and/or sensitive personal data as is necessary or appropriate for Plan administration. If applicable, you also hereby give your explicit consent to the Company's transfer of personal data and/or sensitive personal data outside the country in which you work or reside and to the United States. The legal persons for whom your personal data are intended include the Company, its Subsidiaries (or former Subsidiaries as are deemed necessary), the outside Plan administrator, and any other person that the Company retains or utilizes for compensation planning or Plan administration purposes. You have the right to review and correct your personal data by contacting your local Human Resources Representative. You hereby acknowledge your understanding that the transfer of the information outlined here is important to Plan administration and that failure to consent to the transmission of such information may limit or prohibit your participation in the Plan.
Personal Data.
16. By accepting this Award, you agree that you are bound by the terms of the Plan and these Terms and Conditions and acknowledge that this Award is granted in the Company's sole discretion and is not considered part of any employment contract or your ordinary or expected salary or other compensation. You understand that the grant of performance share units under the Plan is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of any performance share units, or benefits in lieu of performance share units, even if performance share units have been granted repeatedly in the past. This Award and any gains received hereunder are not considered part of your salary or compensation for purposes of any pension or retirement benefits or for purposes of calculating any termination, severance, redundancy, resignation, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, life or accident insurance benefits or similar payments. If the Company or Subsidiary terminates your employment for any reason, you agree that you will not be entitled to damages for breach of contract, dismissal or compensation for loss of office or otherwise to any sum, Shares, Options or other benefits to compensate you for the loss or diminution in value of any actual or prospective rights, benefits or expectation under or in relation to the Plan.
No Contract of Employment or Promise of Future Grants.
17. Nothing in these Terms and Conditions or the Plan grants to you any right to continued employment with the Company or any Subsidiary or to interfere in any way with the Company or Subsidiary's right to terminate your employment at any time and for any reason. Payment of Shares is not secured by a trust, insurance contract or other funding medium, and you do not have any interest in any fund or specific Company asset by reason of this Award. You have no rights as a stockholder of the Company pursuant to this Award until Shares are actually delivered to you.
Limitations.
18. These Terms and Conditions and the Plan constitute the entire understanding between you and the Company regarding this Award. These Terms and Conditions supersede any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning this Award. These Terms and Conditions may not be modified, altered or changed except by the Committee (or its delegate) in writing and pursuant to the terms of the Plan.
Entire Agreement and Amendment.
19. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of these Terms and Conditions will not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions of these Terms and Conditions, which will remain in full force and effect. Moreover, if any provision is found to be excessively broad in duration, scope or covered activity, the provision will be construed so as to be enforceable to the maximum extent compatible with applicable law.
Severability.
20. Notwithstanding any other provision of these Terms and Conditions to the contrary, in the event that all or a portion of these Performance Share Units become subject to Code Section 409A, the provisions contained in Section 7.12 of the Plan shall govern and shall supersede any applicable provision of these Terms and Conditions.
Code Section 409A Compliance.
21. . By signing and returning the Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation, and Confidentiality Agreement described in Section 1, you accept these Performance Share Units and agree to the following:
Acceptance
(i) You have carefully read, fully understand and agree to all of the terms and conditions contained in the Plan and these Terms and Conditions; and
(ii) You understand and agree that the Plan and these Terms and Conditions constitute the entire understanding between you and the Company regarding this Award, and that any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning this Award are replaced and superseded.
If you do not sign and return the Non-Competition, Non-Solicitation, and Confidentiality Agreement described in Section 1 to the Company, such that the Company is in actual receipt of the signed Agreement by January 30, 2009, you will be deemed to have not accepted these Performance Share Units, the Company will cancel all Performance Share Units subject to this Award effective as of such date and you will forfeit any rights hereunder.
Performance Goals
This Appendix describes the vesting requirements for performance share units ("PSUs") awarded under these "Terms and Conditions of Performance Share Unit Award" for the FY09-FY11 performance cycle (September 27, 2008 through September 30, 2011). The number of PSUs subject to these Terms and Conditions that vest is based upon the Company's Total Shareholder Return as compared to the Total Shareholder Return of the Healthcare Industry Index during the FY09-FY11 performance cycle, as described further below. Upon the expiration of the performance cycle, the Committee shall calculate the level of achievement attained for the FY09-FY11 performance cycle (in the manner described below) and certify the extent to which the performance goals have been achieved. You shall become vested in the number of PSUs that corresponds to the attained level of achievement certified by the Committee on the date that the Committee formally certifies such attained level of achievement (the "Committee Certification Date"). The Committee Certification Date shall occur no later than sixty (60) days after the conclusion of the FY09-FY11 performance cycle. Except as otherwise provided in these Terms and Conditions, if your employment terminates for any reason before the Committee Certification Date, you will automatically forfeit all performance share units and they will be cancelled as of your employment termination date.
Healthcare Industry Index
The Healthcare Industry Index includes the following companies: Baxter International Inc., Becton Dickinson and Company, Boston Scientific Corp., Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., CR Bard Inc., Cardinal Health. Inc., Hospira Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Medtronic, Inc., Millipore Corp., PerkinElmer Inc., Schering-Plough Corp., St. Jude Medical Inc., Stryker Corp., Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc., Waters Corp., and Zimmer Holdings Inc.
If two companies in the Healthcare Industry Index merge, the surviving company shall remain in the Healthcare Industry Index. If a company in the Healthcare Industry Index merges with, or is acquired by, a company that is not in the Healthcare Industry Index, and the company in the Healthcare Industry Index is the surviving company, then the surviving company shall be included in the Healthcare Industry Index. If a company in the Healthcare Industry Index merges with, or is acquired by, a company that is not in the Healthcare Industry Index, and the company in the Healthcare Industry Index is not the surviving company or the surviving company is no longer publicly traded, then the surviving company shall not be included in the Healthcare Industry Index.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a company in the Healthcare Industry Index ceases to be listed in the Healthcare Sector under the Standard & Poor's Global Industry Classification Standard
(GICS) at anytime during the performance period (including after a merger, acquisition or other business transaction described above), then it shall not be included in the Healthcare Industry Index.
Total Shareholder Return
Total Shareholder Return for the Company and each company in the Healthcare Industry Index shall include dividends paid and shall be determined as follows:
Total Shareholder Return = (Change in Stock Price + Dividends Paid) / Beginning Stock Price
"Beginning Stock Price" means the average closing price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange of one (1) share of common stock for the first sixty (60) trading days of the Performance Cycle.
"Change in Stock Price" means the difference between the Beginning Stock Price and the Ending Stock Price.
"Dividends Paid" means the total of all dividends paid on one (1) share of stock during the Performance Cycle.
"Ending Stock Price" means the average closing price as reported in the New York Stock Exchange of one (1) share of common stock for the last sixty (60) trading days of the Performance Cycle.
"Performance Cycle" means the three-year period commencing September 27, 2008 and ending on September 30, 2011.
: If the Beginning Stock Price for a company was $50.00 per share, and the company paid $5.00 in dividends over the Performance Cycle, and the Ending Stock Price was $55.00 per share (thereby making the Change in Stock Price $5.00 ($55.00 minus $50.00)), then the Total Shareholder Return for that company would be twenty percent (20%). The calculation is as follows: .2 = ($5 + $5) / $50
Example
Calculation of Percentile Performance
Following the Total Shareholder Return determination for the Company and each of the companies in the Healthcare Industry Index, the Company and the companies in the Healthcare Industry Index will be ranked, in order of maximum to minimum, according to their respective Total Shareholder Return.
After this ranking, the percentile performance of the Company as compared to the other companies in the Healthcare Industry Index shall be determined by the following formula:
 
"P" represents the percentile performance which will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest whole percentile by application of regular rounding.
"N" represents the number of companies in the Healthcare Industry Index, including the Company.
"R" represents the Company's ranking versus the other companies in the Healthcare Industry Index.
: If the Company ranked 7
Example
th
out of 18 companies, the performance will be in the 65
th
percentile.
 
Calculation of Grant Multiplier
Following the percentile performance determination for the Company, the following multipliers will be utilized to determine the percentage of performance share units that shall become vested, if any.
 
 
"GM" represents the Grant Multiplier.
"PF" represents the Company's percentile performance expressed as a fraction.
If an employee was issued 100 PSUs and the Company achieved a percentile performance in the 80
Example:
th
percentile for the applicable performance cycle, then the employee would vest in 200 PSUs at the end of such cycle (2 x 100). If, instead, the Company achieved a percentile performance in the 60
th
percentile, then the grant multiplier would be 1.4 ((4 x .60) -1) and the employee would vest in 140 PSUs (1.4 x 100) at the end of the performance cycle.
If an employee was issued 150 PSUs and the Company achieved a percentile performance in the 40
Example:
th
percentile for the applicable performance cycle, then the grant multiplier would be .80 (2 * .40) and the employee would vest in 120 PSUs (.80 x 150) at the end of such cycle. If, instead, the Company achieved a percentile performance in the 20
th
percentile, then all PSUs would be forfeited.
Incorporation by Reference
This Appendix is the Appendix referred to in the "Terms and Conditions of Performance Share Unit Award FY09-FY11 Performance Cycle" document and is hereby incorporated into and made part of such Terms and Conditions.


