FILE:COV/COV-8K-20090605071748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Changes in Control of Registrant	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Debt Arrangements
Amended and Restated Five-Year Senior Credit Agreement
On June 4, 2009, immediately following the Transaction Time (as defined in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K), Covidien International Finance S.A. ("CIFSA"), Covidien Ltd., Covidien plc and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, entered into an Amended and Restated Five-Year Senior Credit Agreement (the "Amended Credit Agreement"), in the form attached to Amendment No. 2 to the existing Five-Year Senior Credit Agreement, dated as of April 25, 2007 (the "Original Credit Agreement"), and filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Covidien Ltd.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 31, 2009. The Amended Credit Facility amends and restates the Original Credit Agreement to give effect to the Transaction (as such term is defined in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K), to add Covidien plc as a Guarantor and to change the applicable margin from a fixed rate based on utilization to a margin based on CIFSA's credit default swap rate (subject to a floor and a cap). There are no other material differences between the Original Credit Agreement and the Amended Credit Agreement.
The Amended Credit Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.5 and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the Amended Credit Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.5.
Supplemental Indenture
On June 4, 2009, immediately following the Transaction Time, CIFSA, Covidien Ltd., Covidien plc and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as the Trustee, entered into the Fifth Supplemental Indenture (the "Fifth Supplemental Indenture") to the Indenture, dated as of October 22, 2007, among CIFSA, Covidien Ltd. and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas as the Trustee (the "Indenture"), pursuant to which Covidien plc became a guarantor under the Indenture.
The Fifth Supplemental Indenture is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1 and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the Fifth Supplemental Indenture is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 4.1.
Indemnification Agreements
The information under the heading "Indemnification Agreements" in Item 5.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
Assumption of Employee Stock Plans and Awards
On June 4, 2009, Covidien plc entered into a Deed Poll of Assumption relating to Covidien Ltd. Employee Equity Plans (the "Deed Poll"), pursuant to which Covidien plc assumed, among other plans, the Covidien 2007 Stock and Incentive Plan (as amended and restated) (the "SIP"), including all awards issued thereunder, the Covidien Employee Stock Purchase Plan (as amended and restated) (the "ESPP"), and outstanding equity awards that were converted to Covidien Ltd. awards upon Covidien Ltd.'s separation from Tyco International Ltd. in June 2007 pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement by and among Covidien Ltd., Tyco International Ltd. and Tyco Electronics Ltd. (the "Converted Equity Awards"). The Deed Poll provides that Covidien plc will undertake and discharge all of the rights and obligations pre-
 
viously discharged by Covidien Ltd. under the SIP, the ESPP and the Converted Equity Awards and exercise all of the powers previously exercised by Covidien Ltd. pursuant to the terms of the SIP and ESPP. All outstanding Covidien Ltd. equity awards issued before June 4, 2009 and all Converted Equity Awards remain subject to the same terms and conditions as in effect immediately prior to their assumption by Covidien plc, except that upon the vesting or exercise of those awards, Covidien plc ordinary shares shall be issuable in lieu of Covidien Ltd. common shares. Similarly, ordinary shares of Covidien plc, rather than common shares of Covidien Ltd., shall be issued, held available or used as appropriate to give effect to purchases made under the ESPP. A copy of the Deed Poll is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.3 and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the Deed Poll is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.3.
 
The information under the heading "Debt Arrangements" in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference.
 
The information under the heading "Completion of the Transaction" in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 3.02 by reference.
 
The information under the heading "Completion of the Transaction" in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 3.03 by reference. In connection with the Transaction, effective as of June 4, 2009, Covidien plc adopted its memorandum and articles of association. The description of the rights of holders of Covidien plc ordinary shares and comparison thereof to the rights of holders of Covidien Ltd. common shares included under the headings "Description of Covidien plc Shares" and "Comparison of Rights of Shareholders and Powers of the Board of Directors" in Covidien Ltd.'s Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the SEC on April 24, 2009 (the "Transaction Proxy Statement") are incorporated into this Item 3.03 by reference. Copies of Covidien plc's memorandum and articles of association are filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated into this Item 3.03 by reference, and the foregoing information is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 3.1.
 
The information under the heading "Completion of the Transaction" in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 5.01 by reference.
 
Directors and Officers
As of June 4, 2009, following completion of the Transaction, the directors and executive officers of Covidien Ltd. immediately prior to the completion of the Transaction became the directors and executive officers of Covidien plc. Covidien plc's directors will be subject to reelection at the 2010 annual general meeting of Covidien plc. In addition, as of June 4, 2009, following completion of the Transaction, Covidien plc replicated the committees that previously were in place for Covidien Ltd., which include a Compliance Committee, a Compensation and Human Resources Committee, a Nominating and Governance Committee and an Audit Committee.
Indemnification Agreements
Upon the completion of the Transaction, Covidien Ltd. and Covidien plc entered into deeds of indemnification (the "indemnification agreements") substantially in the form filed herewith as Exhibit 10.4 with each of the directors of Covidien plc and its Secretary that provide that Covidien Ltd. will indemnify the indemnitee against claims related to such indemnitee's service to Covidien plc, and against claims related to such indemnitee's service to Covidien Ltd. prior to the Transaction that are brought before the sixth anniversary of the Transaction Time, except (i) in respect of any claim as to which a final and non-appealable judgment is rendered against the indemnitee for an accounting of profits made from the purchase or sale by such indemnitee of securities of Covidien plc pursuant to the provisions of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act or similar provision of any federal, state, or local laws; (ii) in respect of any claim as to which a court of competent jurisdiction has determined in a final and non-appealable judgment that indemnification is not permitted under applicable law; or (iii) in respect of any claim as to which the indemnitee is convicted of a crime constituting a felony under the laws of the jurisdiction where the criminal action was brought (or, where a jurisdiction does not classify any crime as a felony, a crime for which the indemnitee is sentenced to death or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year). The agreements provide that expense advancement is provided subject to an undertaking by the indemnitee to repay amounts advanced if it is ultimately determined that such person is not entitled to indemnification. The agreements further provide that prior to seeking an indemnification payment or expense advancement under the agreement, the indemnitee shall seek an indemnification payment or expense advancement under any applicable insurance policy and shall request that Covidien plc consider in its discretion whether to make such indemnification payment or expense advancement. The agreements provide that Covidien plc will consider whether to make such indemnification payment or expense advancement based on the facts and circumstances related to the request. In the event an indemnification payment or expense advancement is not received pursuant to an insurance policy, or from Covidien plc, within five business days of the later of the indemnitee's request of the insurer and his or her request of Covidien plc, the indemnitee shall be entitled to receive such indemnification payment or expense advancement pursuant to the terms of the agreement. Any appropriate person or body consisting of a member or members of the board of directors of Covidien plc or any other person or body appointed by the board of directors of Covidien plc who is not a party to the particular proceeding with respect to which the indemnitee is seeking indemnification, or an independent counsel (if a change of control as defined in the agreement has occurred), may preclude an indemnification payment or expense advance under the agreement if such person or body determines that the indemnitee is not permitted to be indemnified under applicable law. The indemnitee seeking indemnification may challenge such determination. The agreements provide that in the event the indemnitee receives judgment in his or her favor or the claim against the indemnitee is otherwise disposed of in a manner that allows Covidien plc to indemnify such indemnitee
 
under its articles of association as then in effect, Covidien plc will reimburse Covidien Ltd. for any related indemnification payments or expense advancements. Indemnification and advancement of expenses will not be made in connection with proceedings brought by the indemnitee against Covidien plc or any of its subsidiaries or any director or officer of Covidien plc or any of its subsidiaries, except in specified circumstances. A copy of the form of indemnification agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.4 and incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the indemnification agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.4.
Employee Stock Plans and Awards
In connection with the Transaction, effective as of June 4, 2009, Covidien plc assumed the SIP, including all awards issued thereunder, and the ESPP. The SIP and the ESPP (together, the "Plans") were amended by Covidien Ltd. prior to the Transaction to provide (1) that shares of Covidien plc will be issued, held available or used to measure benefits as appropriate under the Plans, in lieu of shares of Covidien Ltd., including upon exercise of any options or upon the vesting of restricted units and performance share units issued under those Plans; and (2) for the appropriate substitution of Covidien plc for Covidien Ltd. in those Plans. A copy of each Plan as so amended is filed herewith as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, and incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the amended Plans is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.1 and 10.2.
In connection with the Transaction, Covidien plc also assumed the Converted Equity Awards such that Covidien plc ordinary shares will be issued, held available or used as appropriate in lieu of Covidien Ltd. common shares in connection with the vesting or exercise of any such Converted Equity Awards.
 
The information under the heading "Completion of the Transaction" in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 5.03 by reference. In connection with the Transaction, effective as of June 4, 2009, Covidien plc adopted its memorandum and articles of association. The description of the terms of Covidien plc's memorandum and articles of association and comparison thereof to the terms of Covidien Ltd.'s memorandum of association and bye-laws included under the headings "Description of Covidien plc Shares" and "Comparison of Rights of Shareholders and Powers of the Board of Directors" in the Transaction Proxy Statement are incorporated into this Item 5.03 by reference. Copies of Covidien plc's memorandum and articles of association are filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated into this Item 5.03 by reference, and the foregoing information is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 3.1.
 
On June 4, 2009, Covidien Ltd. received approval from the Supreme Court of Bermuda of a scheme of arrangement under Bermuda law (the "Scheme of Arrangement") that effected a transaction (the "Transaction") that resulted in the common shareholders of Covidien Ltd. becoming ordinary shareholders of Covidien plc and Covidien Ltd. becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Covidien plc. The Scheme of Arrangement became effective upon the filing of the court order sanctioning the Scheme of Arrangement with the Bermuda Registrar of Companies on June 4, 2009.
At 7:30 p.m., Eastern Time, on June 4, 2009 (the "Transaction Time"), the following steps occurred effectively simultaneously:
 
 
 
 
Prior to the Transaction, the Covidien Ltd. common shares were listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") under the symbol "COV" and registered under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). In connection with the Transaction, Covidien Ltd. requested that the NYSE file with the SEC an application on Form 25 to strike the Covidien Ltd. common shares from listing on the NYSE and from registration under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. Covidien Ltd. expects to file a Form 15 with the SEC to terminate the registration of the Covidien Ltd. common shares under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and to suspend its duty under Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act to file reports required by Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act with respect to the Covidien Ltd. common shares.
The Covidien plc ordinary shares are deemed registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act. The issuance of ordinary shares by Covidien plc in the Transaction was exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), under Section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Act. The Covidien plc ordinary shares began trading on the NYSE under the symbol "COV," the same symbol under which the Covidien Ltd. common shares previously traded, on June 5, 2009. In connection with the Transaction, Covidien Ltd. terminated the listing of its common shares on the Bermuda Stock Exchange, effective May 6, 2009.
Under Irish law, Covidien plc requires "distributable reserves" in its unconsolidated balance sheet prepared in accordance with the Irish Companies Acts 1963-2006 (the "Irish Companies Acts") to enable it to make distributions (including the payment of cash dividends) to its shareholders, or to redeem or buy back shares. Immediately following implementation of the Transaction, the unconsolidated balance sheet of Covidien plc did not contain any distributable reserves. We are seeking to create distributable reserves, which requires the approval of the Irish High Court. Such approval is expected to be obtained within three to four weeks of the consummation of the Transaction.
 
On June 5, 2009, Covidien plc issued a press release announcing the completion of the Transaction. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference.
Set forth below is a description of the share capital of Covidien plc and a discussion of certain Irish tax considerations. For purposes of the following, references to "we," "our," "Covidien" or the "Company" refer to Covidien plc.
The following description of Covidien plc's share capital is a summary. This summary is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to Covidien plc's memorandum and articles of association, copies of which are filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference. We encourage you to read those documents carefully.
Capital Structure
The authorized share capital of Covidien plc is 40,000 and $225,000,000, divided into 40,000 ordinary shares with a par value of 1 per share, 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares with a par value of $0.20 per share and 125,000,000 preferred shares with a par value of $0.20 per share. The authorized share capital includes 40,000 ordinary shares with a par value of 1 per share in order to satisfy statutory requirements for the incorporation of all Irish public limited companies.
Authorized Share Capital
.
Covidien plc may issue shares subject to the maximum prescribed by its authorized share capital contained in its memorandum of association. Following the Transaction, Covidien plc issued approximately $100,400,000 of its authorized share capital of $225,000,000, with such issued share capital comprised of approximately 502,000,000 ordinary shares with a par value of $0.20 each. This means that Covidien plc is able to issue further shares with a total nominal value of approximately $124,600,000, comprised of approximately 498,000,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of $0.20 each and 125,000,000 preferred shares with a nominal value of $0.20 each (as well as 40,000 ordinary shares with a par value of 1 per share). In connection with the Transaction, Covidien plc also assumed Covidien Ltd.'s previously existing obligations to deliver shares under equity incentive plans and other similar employee awards pursuant to the terms thereof.
As a matter of Irish company law, the directors of a company may issue new ordinary or preferred shares without shareholder approval once authorized to do so by the articles of association of the company or by an ordinary resolution adopted by the shareholders at a general meeting. An ordinary resolution requires over 50% of the votes of a company's shareholders cast at a general meeting. The authority conferred can be granted for a maximum period of five years, at
 
which point it must be renewed by the shareholders of the company by an ordinary resolution. Because of this requirement of Irish law, the articles of association of Covidien plc authorize the board of directors of Covidien plc to issue new ordinary or preferred shares without shareholder approval for a period of five years from the date of Covidien plc's incorporation.
The authorized share capital may be increased or reduced by way of an ordinary resolution of Covidien plc's shareholders. The shares comprising the authorized share capital of Covidien plc may be divided into shares of such par value as the resolution shall prescribe.
The rights and restrictions to which the ordinary shares are subject are prescribed in Covidien plc's articles of association. Covidien plc's articles of association entitle the board of directors, without shareholder approval, to determine the terms of the preferred shares issued by Covidien plc. Preferred shares may be preferred as to dividends, rights on a winding up or voting in such manner as the directors of Covidien plc may resolve. The preferred shares may also be redeemable at the option of the holder of the preferred shares or at the option of Covidien plc, and may be convertible into or exchangeable for shares of any other class or classes of Covidien plc, depending on the terms of such preferred shares.
Irish law does not recognize fractional shares held of record; accordingly, Covidien plc's articles of association do not provide for the issuance of fractional shares of Covidien plc, and the official Irish register of Covidien plc will not reflect any fractional shares.
Immediately prior to the Transaction, the issued share capital of Covidien plc was 40,000, comprised of 40,000 ordinary shares with a par value of 1 per share (the "Euro Share Capital"). In connection with the consummation of the Transaction, the Euro Share Capital was acquired by Covidien plc and was then cancelled by Covidien plc. Covidien plc then issued approximately 502,000,000 ordinary shares with a par value of $0.20 each. All shares issued on completion of the Transaction were issued as fully paid up.
Issued Share Capital
.
Pre-emption Rights, Share Warrants and Share Options
Certain statutory pre-emption rights apply automatically in favor of Covidien plc's shareholders where shares in Covidien plc are to be issued for cash. However, Covidien plc has opted out of these pre-emption rights in its articles of association as permitted under Irish company law. Because Irish law requires this opt-out to be renewed every five years by a special resolution of the shareholders, Covidien plc's articles of association provide that this opt-out must be so renewed. A special resolution requires not less than 75% of the votes of Covidien plc's shareholders cast at a general meeting. If the opt-out is not renewed, shares issued for cash must be offered to pre-existing shareholders of Covidien plc pro rata to their existing shareholding before the shares can be issued to any new shareholders. The statutory pre-emption rights do not apply where shares are issued for non-cash consideration.
The articles of association of Covidien plc provide that, subject to any shareholder approval requirement under any laws, regulations or the rules of any stock exchange to which Covidien plc is subject, the board is authorized, from time to time, in its discretion, to grant such persons, for such periods and upon such terms as the board deems advisable, options to purchase such number of shares of any class or classes or of any series of any class as the board may deem
 
advisable, and to cause warrants or other appropriate instruments evidencing such options to be issued. The Irish Companies Acts 1963-2006 provide that directors may issue share warrants or options without shareholder approval once authorized to do so by the articles of association or an ordinary resolution of shareholders. The board may issue shares upon exercise of warrants or options without shareholder approval or authorization.
Dividends
Under Irish law, dividends and distributions may only be made from distributable reserves. Distributable reserves, broadly, means the accumulated realized profits of Covidien plc less accumulated realized losses of Covidien plc. In addition, no distribution or dividend may be made unless the net assets of Covidien plc are equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of Covidien plc's called up share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce Covidien plc's net assets below such aggregate. Undistributable reserves include the share premium account, the capital redemption reserve fund and the amount by which Covidien plc's accumulated unrealized profits, so far as not previously utilized by any capitalization, exceed Covidien plc's accumulated unrealized losses, so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital.
The determination as to whether or not Covidien plc has sufficient distributable reserves to fund a dividend must be made by reference to "relevant accounts" of Covidien plc. The "relevant accounts" are either the last set of unconsolidated annual audited financial statements or unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with the Irish Companies Acts, which give a "true and fair view" of Covidien plc's unconsolidated financial position and accord with accepted accounting practice. The relevant accounts must be filed in the Companies Registration Office (the official public registry for companies in Ireland).
Although Covidien plc did not have any distributable reserves immediately following the Transaction Time, we are taking steps to create such distributable reserves.
The mechanism as to who declares a dividend and when a dividend shall become payable is governed by the articles of association of Covidien plc. Covidien plc's articles of association authorize the directors to declare such dividends as appear justified from the profits of Covidien plc without the approval of the shareholders at a general meeting. The board of directors may also recommend a dividend to be approved and declared by the shareholders at a general meeting. Although the shareholders may direct that the payment be made by distribution of assets, shares or cash, no dividend issued may exceed the amount recommended by the directors. The dividends can be declared and paid in the form of cash or non-cash assets.
The directors of Covidien plc may deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money (if any) payable by him to Covidien plc in relation to the shares of Covidien plc.
The directors of Covidien plc are also entitled to issue shares with preferred rights to participate in dividends declared by Covidien plc. The holders of such preferred shares may, depending on their terms, be entitled to claim arrears of a declared dividend out of subsequently declared dividends in priority to ordinary shareholders.
 
For information about the Irish tax issues relating to dividend payments, please see "Irish Tax Considerations" below.
Share Repurchases and Redemptions
Overview
Article 3(d) of Covidien plc's articles of association provides that any ordinary share which Covidien plc has acquired or agreed to acquire shall be deemed to be a redeemable share. Accordingly, for Irish company law purposes, the repurchase of ordinary shares by Covidien plc will technically be effected as a redemption of those shares as described below under "Share Repurchases and RedemptionsRepurchases and Redemptions by Covidien plc." If the articles of association of Covidien plc did not contain Article 3(d), repurchases by Covidien plc would be subject to many of the same rules that apply to purchases of Covidien plc shares by subsidiaries described below under "Share Repurchases and RedemptionsPurchases by Subsidiaries of Covidien plc," including the shareholder approval requirements described below and the requirement that any on-market purchases be effected on a "recognized stock exchange." Except where otherwise noted, when we refer elsewhere in this Current Report on Form 8-K to repurchasing or buying back ordinary shares of Covidien plc, we are referring to the redemption of ordinary shares by Covidien plc pursuant to Article 3(d) of the articles of association or the purchase of ordinary shares of Covidien plc by a subsidiary of Covidien plc, in each case in accordance with the Covidien plc articles of association and Irish company law as described below.
Repurchases and Redemptions by Covidien plc
Under Irish law, a company can issue redeemable shares and redeem them out of distributable reserves (which are described above under "Dividends") or the proceeds of a new issue of shares for that purpose. Although Covidien plc did not have any distributable reserves immediately following the Transaction Time, we are taking steps to create such distributable reserves. The issue of redeemable shares may only be made by Covidien plc where the nominal value of the issued share capital that is not redeemable is not less than 10% of the nominal value of the total issued share capital of Covidien plc. All redeemable shares must also be fully paid and the terms of redemption of the shares must provide for payment on redemption. Redeemable shares may, upon redemption, be cancelled or held in treasury. Shareholder approval will not be required to redeem Covidien plc shares.
The board of directors of Covidien plc also is entitled to issue preferred shares which may be redeemed at the option of either Covidien plc or the shareholder, depending on the terms of such preferred shares. Please see "Capital StructureAuthorized Share Capital" above for additional information on redeemable shares.
Repurchased and redeemed shares may be cancelled or held as treasury shares. The nominal value of treasury shares held by Covidien plc at any time must not exceed 10% of the nominal value of the issued share capital of Covidien plc. While Covidien plc holds shares as treasury shares, it cannot exercise any voting rights in respect of those shares. Treasury shares may be cancelled by Covidien plc or re-issued subject to certain conditions.
 
Purchases by Subsidiaries of Covidien plc
Under Irish law, it may be permissible for an Irish or non-Irish subsidiary to purchase shares of Covidien plc either on-market or off-market. A general authority of the shareholders of Covidien plc is required to allow a subsidiary of Covidien plc to make on-market purchases of Covidien plc shares; however, as long as this general authority has been granted, no specific shareholder authority for a particular on-market purchase by a subsidiary of Covidien plc shares is required. We expect that Covidien plc will seek such general authority, which must expire no later than 18 months after the date on which it was granted, at the first annual general meeting of Covidien plc in 2010 and at subsequent annual general meetings. In order for a subsidiary of Covidien plc to make an on-market purchase of Covidien plc's shares, such shares must be purchased on a "recognized stock exchange." The NYSE, on which the shares of Covidien plc became listed following the Transaction, is not currently specified as a recognized stock exchange for this purpose by Irish company law. We understand, however, that it is likely that the Irish authorities will take appropriate steps in the near future to add the NYSE to the list of recognized stock exchanges. For an off-market purchase by a subsidiary of Covidien plc, the proposed purchase contract must be authorized by special resolution of the shareholders of Covidien plc before the contract is entered into. The person whose shares are to be bought back cannot vote in favor of the special resolution and, for at least 21 days prior to the special resolution, the purchase contract must be on display or must be available for inspection by shareholders at the registered office of Covidien plc.
The number of shares held by the subsidiaries of Covidien plc at any time will count as treasury shares and will be included in any calculation of the permitted treasury share threshold of 10% of the nominal value of the issued share capital of Covidien plc. While a subsidiary holds shares of Covidien plc, it cannot exercise any voting rights in respect of those shares. The acquisition of the shares of Covidien plc by a subsidiary must be funded out of distributable reserves of the subsidiary.
Existing Share Repurchase Program
On January 28, 2009, the board of directors of Covidien Ltd. authorized a program to repurchase $300,000,000 of its common shares. Prior to the consummation of the Transaction, (a) the board of directors of Covidien plc authorized the repurchase of Covidien plc shares by Covidien plc and (b) Covidien Ltd. and its nominee shareholders of Covidien plc authorized the purchase of Covidien plc shares by subsidiaries of Covidien plc, such that Covidien plc and its subsidiaries are authorized to purchase shares in an aggregate amount approximately equal to the remaining authorization under the Covidien Ltd. share repurchase program as of the Transaction Time.
As noted above, because repurchases of Covidien plc shares by Covidien plc will technically be effected as a redemption of those shares pursuant to Article 3(d) of the articles of association, such repurchases may be made whether or not the NYSE is a "recognized stock exchange," and shareholder approval for such repurchases will not be required.
However, because purchases of Covidien plc shares by subsidiaries of Covidien plc may be made only on a "recognized stock exchange" and only if the required shareholder approval has been obtained, the shareholder authorization for purchases by subsidiaries of Covidien plc described above was made effective as of the later of (i) the Transaction Time (which has oc-
 
curred) and (ii) the date on which the NYSE becomes a recognized stock exchange for this purpose. This authorization will lapse on the date of the 2010 annual general meeting of Covidien plc, at which time we expect that we would seek shareholder approval to renew this authorization.
Bonus Shares
Under Covidien plc's articles of association, the board may resolve to capitalize any amount credited to any reserve or fund available for distribution or the share premium account of Covidien plc for issuance and distribution to shareholders as fully paid up bonus shares on the same basis of entitlement as would apply in respect of a dividend distribution.
Consolidation and Division; Subdivision
Under its articles of association, Covidien plc may by ordinary resolution consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of larger par value than its existing shares or subdivide its shares into smaller amounts than is fixed by its articles of association.
Reduction of Share Capital
Covidien plc may, by ordinary resolution, reduce its authorized share capital in any way. Covidien plc also may, by special resolution and subject to confirmation by the Irish High Court, reduce or cancel its issued share capital in any way.
General Meetings of Shareholders
Covidien plc is required to hold an annual general meeting within eighteen months of incorporation and at intervals of no more than fifteen months thereafter, provided that an annual general meeting is held in each calendar year following the first annual general meeting, no more than nine months after Covidien plc's fiscal year-end. The first annual general meeting of Covidien plc may be held outside Ireland. Thereafter, any annual general meeting may be held outside Ireland if a resolution so authorizing has been passed at the preceding annual general meeting. Because of the fifteen-month requirement described in this paragraph, Covidien plc's articles of association include a provision reflecting this requirement of Irish law.
Extraordinary general meetings of Covidien plc may be convened by (i) the board of directors, (ii) on requisition of the shareholders holding not less than 10% of the paid up share capital of Covidien plc carrying voting rights or (iii) on requisition of Covidien plc's auditors. Extraordinary general meetings are generally held for the purposes of approving shareholder resolutions of Covidien plc as may be required from time to time.
Notice of a general meeting must be given to all shareholders of Covidien plc and to the auditors of Covidien plc. The articles of association of Covidien plc provide that the maximum notice period is 60 days. The minimum notice periods are 21 days' notice in writing for an annual general meeting or an extraordinary general meeting to approve a special resolution and 14 days' notice in writing for any other extraordinary general meeting. General meetings may be called by shorter notice, but only with the consent of the auditors of Covidien plc and of the shareholders entitled to attend and vote thereat. Because of the 21-day and 14-day requirements
all
 
described in this paragraph, Covidien plc's articles of association include provisions reflecting these requirements of Irish law.
In the case of an extraordinary general meeting convened by shareholders of Covidien plc, the proposed purpose of the meeting must be set out in the requisition notice. The requisition notice can contain any resolution. Upon receipt of this requisition notice, the board of directors has 21 days to convene a meeting of Covidien plc's shareholders to vote on the matters set out in the requisition notice. This meeting must be held within two months of the receipt of the requisition notice. If the board of directors does not convene the meeting within such 21-day period, the requisitioning shareholders, or any of them representing more than one half of the total voting rights of all of them, may themselves convene a meeting, which meeting must be held within three months of the receipt of the requisition notice.
The only matters which must, as a matter of Irish company law, be transacted at an annual general meeting are the presentation of the annual accounts, balance sheet and reports of the directors and auditors, the appointment of auditors and the fixing of the auditor's remuneration (or delegation of same). If no resolution is made in respect of the reappointment of an auditor at an annual general meeting, the previous auditor will be deemed to have continued in office.
If the directors become aware that the net assets of Covidien plc are half or less of the amount of Covidien plc's called-up share capital, the directors of Covidien plc must convene an extraordinary general meeting of Covidien plc's shareholders not later than 28 days from the date that they learn of this fact. This meeting must be convened for the purposes of considering whether any, and if so what, measures should be taken to address the situation.
Voting
Where a poll is demanded at a general meeting, every shareholder shall have one vote for each ordinary share that he or she holds as of the record date for the meeting. Voting rights on a poll may be exercised by shareholders registered in Covidien plc's share register as of the record date for the meeting or by a duly appointed proxy of such a registered shareholder, which proxy need not be a shareholder. Where interests in shares are held by a nominee trust company this company may exercise the rights of the beneficial holders on their behalf as their proxy. All proxies must be appointed in the manner prescribed by Covidien plc's articles of association. The articles of association of Covidien plc permit the appointment of proxies by the shareholders to be notified to Covidien plc electronically.
Covidien plc's articles provide that all resolutions shall be decided by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by the chairman, by at least three shareholders as of the record date for the meeting or by any shareholder or shareholders holding not less than 10% of the total voting rights of Covidien plc as of the record date for the meeting. Each Covidien plc ordinary shareholder of record as of the record date for the meeting has one vote at a general meeting on a show of hands.
In accordance with the articles of association of Covidien plc, the directors of Covidien plc may from time to time cause Covidien plc to issue preferred shares. These preferred shares may have such voting rights as may be specified in the terms of such preferred shares (e.g., they
 
may carry more votes per share than ordinary shares or may entitle their holders to a class vote on such matters as may be specified in the terms of the preferred shares).
Treasury shares will not be entitled to vote at general meetings of shareholders.
Irish company law requires "special resolutions" of the shareholders at a general meeting to approve certain matters. A special resolution requires not less than 75% of the votes cast of Covidien plc's shareholders at a general meeting. This may be contrasted with "ordinary resolutions," which require a simple majority of the votes of Covidien plc's shareholders cast at a general meeting. Examples of matters requiring special resolutions include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A scheme of arrangement with shareholders requires a court order from the Irish High Court and the approval of: (1) 75% of the voting shareholders by value; and (2) 50% in number of the voting shareholders, at a meeting called to approve the scheme.
Variation of Class Rights Attaching to Shares
Variation of all or any special rights attached to any class of shares of Covidien plc is addressed in the articles of association of Covidien plc as well as the Irish Companies Acts. Any variation of class rights attaching to the issued shares of Covidien plc must be approved by a special resolution of the shareholders of the class affected.
 
Quorum for General Meetings
The presence, in person or by proxy, of the holders of a majority of the Covidien plc ordinary shares outstanding constitutes a quorum for the conduct of business. No business may take place at a general meeting of Covidien plc if a quorum is not present in person or by proxy. The board of directors has no authority to waive quorum requirements stipulated in the articles of association of Covidien plc. Abstentions and broker non-votes will be counted as present for purposes of determining whether there is a quorum in respect of the proposals.
Inspection of Books and Records
Under Irish law, shareholders have the right to: (1) receive a copy of the memorandum and articles of association of Covidien plc and any act of the Irish Government which alters the memorandum of association of Covidien plc; (2) inspect and obtain copies of the minutes of general meetings and resolutions of Covidien plc; (3) inspect and receive a copy of the register of shareholders, register of directors and secretaries, register of directors' interests and other statutory registers maintained by Covidien plc; (4) receive copies of balance sheets and directors' and auditors' reports which have previously been sent to shareholders prior to an annual general meeting; and (5) receive balance sheets of a subsidiary company of Covidien plc which have previously been sent to shareholders prior to an annual general meeting for the preceding ten years. The auditors of Covidien plc also have the right to inspect all books, records and vouchers of Covidien plc. The auditors' report must be circulated to the shareholders with Covidien plc's audited consolidated annual financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 21 days before the annual general meeting and must be read to the shareholders at Covidien plc's annual general meeting.
Acquisitions and Appraisal Rights
There are a number of mechanisms for acquiring an Irish public limited company, including:
 
 
 
 
Under Irish law, there is no requirement for a company's shareholders to approve a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of a company's property and assets. However, Covidien plc's articles of association provide that the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding voting shares on the relevant record date is required to approve a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of its property or assets.
Disclosure of Interests in Shares
Under the Irish Companies Acts, there is a notification requirement for shareholders who acquire or cease to be interested in 5% of the shares of an Irish public limited company. A shareholder of Covidien plc must therefore make such a notification to Covidien plc if as a result of a transaction the shareholder will be interested in 5% or more of the shares of Covidien plc; or if as a result of a transaction a shareholder who was interested in more than 5% of the shares of Covidien plc ceases to be so interested. Where a shareholder is interested in more than 5% of the shares of Covidien plc, any alteration of his or her interest that brings his or her total holding through the nearest whole percentage number, whether an increase or a reduction, must be notified to Covidien plc. The relevant percentage figure is calculated by reference to the aggregate par value of the shares in which the shareholder is interested as a proportion of the entire par value of Covidien plc's share capital. Where the percentage level of the shareholder's interest does not amount to a whole percentage this figure may be rounded down to the next whole number. All such disclosures should be notified to Covidien plc within 5 business days of the transaction or alteration of the shareholder's interests that gave rise to the requirement to notify. Where a person fails to comply with the notification requirements described above no right or interest of any kind whatsoever in respect of any shares in Covidien plc concerned, held by such person, shall be enforceable by such person, whether directly or indirectly, by action or legal proceeding. However, such person may apply to the court to have the rights attaching to the shares concerned reinstated.
In addition to the above disclosure requirement, Covidien plc, under the Irish Companies Acts, may by notice in writing require a person whom Covidien plc knows or has reasonable cause to believe to be, or at any time during the three years immediately preceding the date on which such notice is issued, to have been interested in shares comprised in Covidien plc's relevant share capital to: (a) indicate whether or not it is the case, and (b) where such person holds or has during that time held an interest in the shares of Covidien plc, to give such further information as may be required by Covidien plc including particulars of such person's own past or present interests in shares of Covidien plc. Any information given in response to the notice is required to be given in writing within such reasonable time as may be specified in the notice.
Where such a notice is served by Covidien plc on a person who is or was interested in shares of Covidien plc and that person fails to give Covidien plc any information required within the reasonable time specified, Covidien plc may apply to court for an order directing that the affected shares be subject to certain restrictions.
 
Under the Irish Companies Acts, the restrictions that may be placed on the shares by the court are as follows:
 
 
 
 
Where the shares in Covidien plc are subject to these restrictions, the court may order the shares to be sold and may also direct that the shares shall cease to be subject to these restrictions.
Anti-Takeover Provisions
Business Combinations with Interested Shareholders
Covidien plc's articles of association include a provision similar to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits Covidien plc from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested shareholder, unless, in general:
 
 
 
A "business combination" is generally defined as a merger, asset or stock sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested shareholder. An "interested shareholder" is generally defined as a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns or, within three years prior to the date in question, owned 15% or more of the outstanding voting shares of Covidien plc.
 
Shareholder Rights Plans and Share Issuances
Irish law does not expressly prohibit companies from issuing share purchase rights or adopting a shareholder rights plan as an anti-takeover measure. However, there is no directly relevant case law on the validity of such plans under Irish law, and shareholder approval may be required under Irish law to implement such a plan. In addition, such a plan would be subject to the Irish Takeover Rules described below.
Covidien plc's articles of association allow the board to adopt any shareholder rights plan upon such terms and conditions as the board deems expedient and in the best interests of Covidien plc, subject to applicable law.
Subject to the Irish Takeover Rules described below, the board also has power to issue any authorized and unissued shares of Covidien plc on such terms and conditions as it may determine (as described above under "Capital StructureAuthorized Share Capital") and any such action should be taken in the best interests of Covidien plc. It is possible, however, that the terms and conditions of any issue of preferred shares could discourage a takeover or other transaction that holders of some or a majority of the ordinary shares believe to be in their best interests or in which holders might receive a premium for their shares over the then market price of the shares.
Irish Takeover Rules and Substantial Acquisition Rules
A transaction by virtue of which a third party is seeking to acquire 30% or more of the voting rights of Covidien plc will be governed by the Irish Takeover Panel Act 1997 and the Irish Takeover Rules made thereunder and will be regulated by the Irish Takeover Panel. The "General Principles" of the Irish Takeover Rules and certain important aspects of the Irish Takeover Rules are described below.
General Principles
The Irish Takeover Rules are built on the following General Principles which will apply to any transaction regulated by the Irish Takeover Panel:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mandatory Bid
If an acquisition of shares were to increase the aggregate holding of an acquirer and its concert parties to shares carrying 30% or more of the voting rights in Covidien plc, the acquirer and, depending on the circumstances, its concert parties would be required (except with the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel) to make a cash offer for the outstanding shares at a price not less than the highest price paid for the shares by the acquirer or its concert parties during the previous 12 months. This requirement would also be triggered by an acquisition of shares by a person holding (together with its concert parties) shares carrying between 30% and 50% of the voting rights in Covidien plc if the effect of such acquisition were to increase the percentage of the voting rights held by that person (together with its concert parties) by 0.05% within a twelve-month period. A single holder (that is, a holder excluding any parties acting in concert with the holder) holding more than 50% of the voting rights of a company is not subject to this rule.
Voluntary Bid; Requirements to Make a Cash Offer and Minimum Price Requirements
A voluntary offer is an offer that is not a mandatory offer. If a bidder or any of its concert parties acquire ordinary shares of Covidien plc within the period of three months prior to the commencement of the offer period, the offer price must be not less than the highest price paid for Covidien plc ordinary shares by the bidder or its concert parties during that period. The Irish Takeover Panel has the power to extend the "look back" period to 12 months if the Irish Takeover Panel, having regard to the General Principles, believes it is appropriate to do so.
If the bidder or any of its concert parties has acquired ordinary shares of Covidien plc (i) during the period of 12 months prior to the commencement of the offer period which represent more than 10% of the total ordinary shares of Covidien plc or (ii) at any time after the commencement of the offer period, the offer shall be in cash (or accompanied by a full cash alternative) and the price per Covidien plc ordinary share shall be not less than the highest price paid by the bidder or its concert parties during, in the case of (i), the period of 12 months prior to the commencement of the offer period and, in the case of (ii), the offer period. The Irish Takeover Panel may apply this rule to a bidder who, together with its concert parties, has acquired less than 10% of the total ordinary shares of Covidien plc in the 12-month period prior to the commencement of the offer period if the Panel, having regard to the General Principles, considers it just and proper to do so.
 
An offer period will generally commence from the date of the first announcement of the offer or proposed offer.
Substantial Acquisition Rules
The Irish Takeover Rules also contain rules governing substantial acquisitions of shares which restrict the speed at which a person may increase his or her holding of shares and rights over shares to an aggregate of between 15% and 30% of the voting rights of Covidien plc. Except in certain circumstances, an acquisition or series of acquisitions of shares or rights over shares representing 10% or more of the voting rights of Covidien plc is prohibited, if such acquisition(s), when aggregated with shares or rights already held, would result in the acquirer holding 15% or more but less than 30% of the voting rights of Covidien plc and such acquisitions are made within a period of seven days. These rules also require accelerated disclosure of acquisitions of shares or rights over shares relating to such holdings.
Frustrating Action
Under the Irish Takeover Rules, the board of directors of Covidien plc is not permitted to take any action which might frustrate an offer for the shares of Covidien plc once the board of directors has received an approach which may lead to an offer or has reason to believe an offer is imminent except as noted below. Potentially frustrating actions such as (i) the issue of shares, options or convertible securities, (ii) material disposals, (iii) entering into contracts other than in the ordinary course of business or (iv) any action, other than seeking alternative offers, which may result in frustration of an offer, are prohibited during the course of an offer or at any time during which the board has reason to believe an offer is imminent. Exceptions to this prohibition are available where:
 
 
 
 
 
 
For other provisions that could be considered to have an anti-takeover effect, please see above at "Pre-emption Rights, Share Warrants and Share Options" and "Disclosure of Interests in Shares," in addition to "Corporate Governance," Election of Directors," "Vacancies on Board of Directors," "Removal of Directors," "Shareholder Consent to Action
 
Without Meeting," "Director Nominations; Proposals of Shareholders" and "Amendment of Governing Documents" below.
Corporate Governance
The articles of association of Covidien plc delegate the day-to-day management of Covidien plc to the board of directors. The board of directors may delegate management of Covidien plc to committees, executives or to a management team, but regardless, the directors remain responsible, as a matter of Irish law, for the proper management of the affairs of Covidien plc. In connection with the Transaction, Covidien plc replicated the committees that previously were in place for Covidien Ltd., which include a Compliance Committee, a Compensation and Human Resources Committee, a Nominating and Governance Committee and an Audit Committee. In addition, Covidien plc adopted Covidien Ltd.'s corporate governance guidelines.
Legal Name; Formation; Fiscal Year; Registered Office
The legal and commercial name of Covidien plc is Covidien public limited company. Covidien plc was incorporated in Ireland as a public limited company on January 16, 2009 with company registration number 466385. Covidien plc's fiscal year ends on the last Friday in September and Covidien plc's registered address is Cherrywood Business Park, Block G, First Floor, Loughlinstown, Co. Dublin, Ireland.
Duration; Dissolution; Rights upon Liquidation
Covidien plc's duration is unlimited. Covidien plc may be dissolved at any time by way of either a shareholders' voluntary winding up or a creditors' voluntary winding up. In the case of a shareholders' voluntary winding up, the consent of not less than 75% of the shareholders of Covidien plc is required. Covidien plc may also be dissolved by way of court order on the application of a creditor, or by the Companies Registration Office as an enforcement measure where Covidien plc has failed to file certain returns.
The rights of the shareholders to a return of Covidien plc's assets on dissolution or winding up, following the settlement of all claims of creditors, may be prescribed in Covidien plc's articles of association or the terms of any preferred shares issued by the directors of Covidien plc from time to time. The holders of preferred shares in particular may have the right to priority in a dissolution or winding up of Covidien plc. If the articles of association contain no specific provisions in respect of a dissolution or winding up then, subject to the priorities of any creditors, the assets will be distributed to shareholders in proportion to the paid-up par value of the shares held. Covidien plc's articles provide that the ordinary shareholders of Covidien plc are entitled to participate pro rata in a winding up, but their right to do so may be subject to the rights of any preferred shareholders to participate under the terms of any series or class of preferred shares.
Uncertificated Shares
Holders of ordinary shares of Covidien plc do not have the right to require Covidien plc to issue certificates for their shares. Covidien plc will only issue uncertificated ordinary shares.
 
Stock Exchange Listing
Immediately following the Transaction Time, the Covidien plc ordinary shares became listed on the NYSE under the symbol "COV," the same symbol under which the Covidien Ltd. shares previously were listed. In connection with the Transaction, Covidien Ltd. terminated its listing on the Bermuda Stock Exchange, effective May 6, 2009. We do not plan to be listed on the Irish Stock Exchange at the present time.
No Sinking Fund
The shares have no sinking fund provisions.
No Liability for Further Calls or Assessments
The shares issued in the Transaction were duly and validly issued and fully paid.
Transfer and Registration of Shares
Covidien plc's share register is maintained by its transfer agent. Registration in this share register is determinative of membership in Covidien plc. A shareholder of Covidien plc who holds shares beneficially is not the holder of record of such shares. Instead, the depository (for example, Cede & Co., as nominee for DTC) or other nominee is the holder of record of such shares. Accordingly, a transfer of shares from a person who holds such shares beneficially to a person who also holds such shares beneficially through the same depository or other nominee will not be registered in Covidien plc's official share register, as the depository or other nominee will remain the record holder of such shares.
A written instrument of transfer is required under Irish law in order to register on Covidien plc's official share register any transfer of shares (i) from a person who holds such shares directly to any other person, (ii) from a person who holds such shares beneficially to a person who holds such shares directly, or (iii) from a person who holds such shares beneficially to another person who holds such shares beneficially where the transfer involves a change in the depository or other nominee that is the record owner of the transferred shares. An instrument of transfer also is required for a shareholder who directly holds shares to transfer those shares into his or her own broker account (or vice versa). Such instruments of transfer may give rise to Irish stamp duty, which must be paid prior to registration of the transfer on Covidien plc's official Irish share register. Due to the termination of the Covidien Ltd. Investor Services Program prior to the Transaction Time, a person wishing to acquire shares directly may need to purchase the shares through a broker account and then transfer such shares into his or her own name.
We currently intend to pay (or cause one of our affiliates to pay) stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. In other cases Covidien plc may, in its absolute discretion, pay (or cause one of its affiliates to pay) any stamp duty. Covidien plc's articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, Covidien plc (i) may seek reimbursement from the buyer, (ii) will have a lien against the Covidien plc shares acquired by such buyer and any dividends paid on such shares and (iii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends on such shares. Parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in Covidien plc shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by Covidien plc.
 
Covidien plc's articles of association delegate to Covidien plc's Secretary the authority to execute an instrument of transfer on behalf of a transferring party. In order to help ensure that the official share register is regularly updated to reflect trading of Covidien plc shares occurring through normal electronic systems, we intend to regularly produce any required instruments of transfer in connection with any transactions for which we pay stamp duty (subject to the reimbursement and set-off rights described above). In the event that we notify one or both of the parties to a share transfer that we believe stamp duty is required to be paid in connection with such transfer and that we will not pay such stamp duty, such parties may either themselves arrange for the execution of the required instrument of transfer (and may request a form of instrument of transfer from Covidien plc for this purpose) or request that Covidien plc execute an instrument of transfer on behalf of the transferring party in a form determined by Covidien plc. In either event, if the parties to the share transfer have the instrument of transfer duly stamped (to the extent required) and then provide it to Covidien plc's transfer agent, the transferee will be registered as the legal owner of the relevant shares on Covidien plc's official Irish share register (subject to the matters described below).
The directors of Covidien plc have general discretion to decline to register an instrument of transfer unless the transfer is in respect of one class of share only.
The registration of transfers may be suspended by the directors at such times and for such period, not exceeding in the whole 30 days in each year, as the directors may from time to time determine.
Election of Directors
The Irish Companies Acts provide for a minimum of two directors. Covidien plc's articles of association provide for a minimum of two directors and a maximum of 15. The shareholders of Covidien plc may from time to time increase or reduce the maximum number, or increase the minimum number, of directors by a special resolution amending the articles of association.
Directors are elected by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by shareholders at an annual general meeting and serve for one-year terms. Any nominee for director who does not receive a majority of the votes cast is not elected to the board. However, because Irish law requires a minimum of two directors at all times, in the event that an election results in no directors being elected, each of the two nominees receiving the greatest number of votes in favor of his or her election shall hold office until his or her successor shall be elected. In the event that an election results in only one director being elected, that director shall be elected and shall serve for a one-year term, and the nominee receiving the greatest number of votes in favor of their election shall hold office until his or her successor shall be elected.
Vacancies on Board of Directors
Covidien plc's articles of association provide that the directors shall have the authority to appoint one or more directors to Covidien plc's board, subject to the maximum in the articles of association. A vacancy caused by the removal of a director may be filled at the meeting at which
 
the director is removed by resolution of Covidien plc's shareholders. If not, it may be filled by the board of directors.
Any director so appointed shall hold office until the next annual general meeting of Covidien plc. During any vacancy in the board, the remaining directors shall have full power to act as the board.
Removal of Directors
The Irish Companies Acts provide that notwithstanding anything contained in the articles of association of a company or in any agreement between that company and a director, the shareholders may by an ordinary resolution remove a director from office before the expiration of his or her term. The power of removal is without prejudice to any claim for damages for breach of contract (e.g., employment contract) which the director may have against Covidien plc in respect of his or her removal.
Duties of the Board of Directors
The directors of Covidien plc have certain statutory and fiduciary duties. All of the directors have equal and overall responsibility for the management of Covidien plc (although directors who also serve as employees have additional responsibilities and duties arising under their employment agreements and are expected to exercise a greater degree of skill and diligence than non-executive directors). The principal directors' duties include the common law fiduciary duties of good faith and exercising due care and skill. The statutory duties include ensuring the maintenance of proper books of account, having annual accounts prepared, having an annual audit performed, the duty to maintain certain registers and make certain filings as well as disclosure of personal interests. Particular duties also apply to directors of insolvent companies (for example, the directors could be liable to sanctions where they are deemed by the court to have carried on the business of Covidien plc while insolvent, without due regard to the interests of creditors). For public limited companies like Covidien plc, directors are under a specific duty to ensure that the Secretary is a person with the requisite knowledge and experience to discharge the role.
Indemnification of Directors and Officers; Insurance
Covidien plc's articles of association confer an indemnity on its directors and Secretary only in the limited circumstances permitted by the Irish Companies Acts. The Irish Companies Acts prescribe that such an indemnity only permits a company to pay the costs or discharge the liability of a director or the secretary where judgment is given in any civil or criminal action in respect of such costs or liability, or where an Irish court grants relief because the director or secretary acted honestly and reasonably and ought fairly to be excused. This restriction does not apply to executives who are not directors or the Secretary of Covidien plc. Any provision which seeks to indemnify a director or secretary of an Irish company over and above this shall be void under Irish law, whether contained in its articles of association or any contract between the director or secretary and the company.
In addition, Covidien plc's articles of association provide that, as far as is permissible under the Irish Companies Acts, Covidien plc shall indemnify any executive officer of Covidien plc (excluding the Secretary) against any expenses, including attorney's fees, judgments, fines, and
 
amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, to which he or she was, is, or is threatened to be made a party, or is otherwise involved, by reason of the fact that he or she is or was an executive officer. This indemnity does not extend to any liability arising out of (a) any fraud or dishonesty in the performance of such person's duty to Covidien plc, or (b) such person's conscious, intentional or willful breach of the obligation to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of Covidien plc.
The directors of Covidien plc may on a case-by-case basis decide at their discretion that it is in the best interest of Covidien plc to indemnify an individual director from any liability arising from his or her position as a director of Covidien plc. However, this discretion must be exercised bona fide in the best interests of Covidien plc as a whole.
Irish companies may take out directors and officers liability insurance, as well as other types of insurance, for their directors and officers. Covidien plc has purchased and maintains a directors' and officers' liability policy.
Upon the completion of the Transaction, Covidien Ltd. and Covidien plc entered into indemnification agreements with each of the directors of Covidien plc and its Secretary that provide for indemnification and expense advancement (except in cases where Covidien plc or any of its subsidiaries is proceeding against the indemnitee) and include related provisions meant to facilitate the indemnitee's receipt of such benefits. The information under the heading "Indemnification Agreements" in Item 5.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference.
Limitation on Director Liability
Under Irish law, a company may not exempt its directors from liability for negligence or a breach of duty. However, where a breach of duty has been established, directors may be statutorily exempted by an Irish court from personal liability for negligence or breach of duty if, among other things, the court determines that they have acted honestly and reasonably, and that they may fairly be excused as a result.
Conflicts of Interest
As a matter of Irish law, a director is under a general fiduciary duty to avoid conflicts of interest. Directors who have a personal interest in a contract or a proposed contract with Covidien plc are required to declare the nature of their interest at a meeting of the directors of Covidien plc. Covidien plc is required to maintain a register of such declared interests which must be available for inspection by the shareholders. Covidien plc's articles of association provide that a director must declare any interest he or she may have in a contract with Covidien plc at a meeting of the board of directors. Thereafter he or she may not participate in any vote in relation to such contract, subject to certain limited exceptions.
 
Shareholders' Suits
In Ireland, the decision to institute proceedings is generally taken by a company's board of directors who will usually be empowered to manage the company's business. In certain limited circumstances, a shareholder may be entitled to bring a derivative action on behalf of Covidien plc. The central question at issue in deciding whether a minority shareholder may be permitted to bring a derivative action is whether, unless the action is brought, a wrong committed against Covidien plc would otherwise go un-redressed.
The principal case law in Ireland indicates that to bring a derivative action a person must first establish a prima facie case (1) that the company is entitled to the relief claimed and (2) that the action falls within one of the five exceptions derived from case law, as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
The shareholders of Covidien plc may also bring proceedings against Covidien plc where the affairs of Covidien plc are being conducted, or the powers of the directors are being exercised, in a manner oppressive to the shareholders or in disregard of their interests. Oppression connotes conduct which is burdensome, harsh or wrong. The conduct must relate to the internal management of Covidien plc. This is an Irish statutory remedy and the court can grant any order it sees fit, usually providing for the purchase or transfer of the shares of any shareholder.
Shareholder Consent to Action Without Meeting
The Irish Companies Acts provide that shareholders may approve an ordinary or special resolution of shareholders without a meeting if (a) shareholders sign the written resolution and (b) the company's articles of association permit written resolutions of shareholders. Covidien plc's articles of association do not include provisions permitting shareholders to take action by written resolution and therefore shareholders do not have the ability to do so.
all
Record Dates for Shareholder Meetings
Covidien plc's articles of association provide that the record date for any general shareholder meeting shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board and the record date shall be at least 10 days and at most 80 days prior to the general meeting.
Director Nominations; Proposals of Shareholders
Covidien plc's articles of association provide that (a) with respect to an annual general meeting of shareholders, nominations of persons for election to the board of directors and the
 
proposal of business to be considered by shareholders may be made only pursuant to Covidien plc's notice of meeting; by the board of directors; or by a shareholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who has complied with the advance notice procedures provided for in Covidien plc's articles of association, and (b) with respect to an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders, nominations of persons for election to the board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered by shareholders may be made only pursuant to Covidien plc's notice of meeting; by the board of directors; by any shareholders pursuant to the valid exercise of the power granted under the Irish Companies Acts; or by a shareholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who has complied with the advance notice procedures provided for in Covidien plc's articles of association.
In order to comply with the advance notice procedures of Covidien plc's articles of association, a shareholder must give written notice to Covidien plc's Secretary on a timely basis. To be timely for an annual general meeting, notice must be delivered, or mailed and received, at least 120 days in advance of the first anniversary of the date that Covidien plc released the proxy statement for the preceding year's annual general meeting, subject to certain exceptions. To be timely for an extraordinary general meeting, notice must be delivered, or mailed and received, by the later of (1) 120 days in advance of the meeting or (2) the date that is 10 days after the date of the first public announcement of the date of the meeting. For nominations to the board, the notice must include all information about the director nominee that is required to be disclosed by SEC rules regarding the solicitation of proxies for the election of directors pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act and such other information as Covidien plc may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of the proposed nominee. For other business that a shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, the notice must include a brief description of the business, the reasons for proposing the business at the meeting and a discussion of any material interest of the shareholder in the business. Whether the notice relates to a nomination to the board of directors or to other business to be proposed at the meeting, the notice also must include information about the shareholder and the shareholder's holdings of Covidien plc's shares.
In addition, the Irish Companies Acts provide that shareholders holding not less than 10% of the total voting rights may call an extraordinary general meeting for the purpose of considering director nominations or other proposals, as described above under "General Meetings of Shareholders."
The chairman of the meeting may refuse to transact any business or may disregard nomination of any person if a shareholder fails to comply with the foregoing procedures.
Adjournment of Shareholder Meetings
Covidien plc's articles provide that the presiding officer, which would normally be the Chairman, of any shareholder meeting may, with the consent of a majority of votes cast by the shareholders present and voting on an adjournment proposal at a meeting at which a quorum is present, and shall, if so directed by the meeting, adjourn the meeting from time to time and from place to place. No business shall be conducted at any adjourned meeting other than the business which might have been transacted at the meeting from which the adjournment took place. Any meeting duly called at which a quorum is not present shall be adjourned and Covidien plc shall provide notice pursuant to Covidien plc's articles of association.
 
Amendment of Governing Documents
Irish companies may only alter their memorandum and articles of association by the passing of a special resolution.
Enforcement of Civil Liabilities Against Foreign Persons
Covidien plc has been advised by its Irish counsel, Arthur Cox, that a judgment for the payment of money rendered by a court in the United States based on civil liability would not be automatically enforceable in Ireland. There is no treaty between Ireland and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. The following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in Ireland:
 
 
 
An Irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if the judgment violated Irish public policy, if the judgment is in breach of natural justice or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment.
Scope of Discussion
The following is a general summary of the main Irish tax considerations applicable to certain investors who are the beneficial owners of Covidien plc shares. It is based on existing Irish law and practices in effect on the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K and on discussions and correspondence with the Irish Revenue Commissioners. Legislative, administrative or judicial changes may modify the tax consequences described below.
The statements do not constitute tax advice and are intended only as a general guide. Furthermore, this information applies only to Covidien plc shares held as capital assets and does not apply to all categories of shareholders, such as dealers in securities, trustees, insurance companies, collective investment schemes and shareholders who have, or who are deemed to have, acquired their Covidien plc shares by virtue of an office or employment. This summary is not exhaustive and shareholders should consult their own tax advisors as to the tax consequences in Ireland, or other relevant jurisdictions, of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of the Covidien plc shares.
Withholding Tax on Dividends
Distributions made by Covidien plc will generally be subject to dividend withholding tax ("DWT") at the standard rate of income tax (currently 20 percent) unless one of the exemptions described below applies, which we believe will be the case for the majority of shareholders. For DWT purposes, a dividend includes any distribution made by Covidien plc to its shareholders,
 
including cash dividends, non-cash dividends and additional stock or units taken in lieu of a cash dividend. Covidien plc is responsible for withholding DWT at source and forwarding the relevant payment to the Irish Revenue Commissioners.
Certain shareholders (both individual and corporate) are entitled to an exemption from DWT. In particular, a non-Irish resident shareholder is not subject to DWT on dividends received from Covidien plc if the shareholder is:
 
 
 
 
 
and provided that, in all cases noted above but subject to the matters described below, the shareholder has provided the appropriate forms to his or her broker (and the relevant information is further transmitted to Covidien plc's qualifying intermediary) before the record date for the dividend (in the case of shares held beneficially), or to Covidien plc's transfer agent at least 7 business days before such record date (in the case of shares held directly).
Covidien plc has an agreement in place with the Bank of New York Mellon (which is recognized by the Irish Revenue Commissioners as a "qualifying intermediary") which satisfies one of the Irish requirements for dividends to be paid free of DWT to certain shareholders who hold their shares through DTC, as described below. The agreement generally provides for certain arrangements relating to distributions in respect of those shares of Covidien plc (the "Deposited Securities") that are held through DTC. The agreement provides that the qualifying intermediary shall distribute or otherwise make available to Cede & Co., as nominee for DTC, any cash dividend or other cash distribution with respect to the Deposited Securities, after Covidien plc delivers or causes to be delivered to the qualifying intermediary the cash to be distributed. The agreement was initially entered into by Covidien Ltd. and the Bank of New York Mellon in December 2008; however, in connection with consummation of the Transaction, Covidien Ltd. as-
 
signed its rights under the agreement to Covidien plc and Covidien plc assumed Covidien Ltd.'s obligations under the agreement.
Covidien plc will rely on information received directly or indirectly from brokers and its transfer agent in determining where shareholders reside, whether they have provided the required U.S. tax information and whether they have provided the required Irish dividend withholding tax forms, as described below. Shareholders who are required to file Irish forms in order to receive their dividends free of DWT should note that such forms are valid for five years and new forms must be filed before the expiration of that period in order to continue to enable them to receive dividends without DWT. Links to the various Irish Revenue forms are available at .
http://www.revenue.ie/en/tax/dwt/forms/index.html
The list of "relevant territories" as defined for the purposes of DWT is set forth below:
 
Shares Held by U.S. Resident Shareholders
Dividends paid on Covidien plc shares that are owned by residents of the U.S. and held beneficially will not be subject to DWT provided that the address of the beneficial owner of the shares in the records of the broker is in the U.S. Covidien plc strongly recommends that such shareholders ensure that their information has been properly recorded by their brokers (so that
 
such brokers can further transmit the relevant information to Covidien plc's qualifying intermediary).
Dividends paid on Covidien plc shares that are owned by residents of the U.S. and held directly will not be subject to DWT provided that the shareholder has provided a valid Form W-9 showing a U.S. address or a valid U.S. taxpayer identification number to Covidien plc's transfer agent. Covidien plc strongly recommends that such shareholders ensure that appropriate Form W-9 or taxpayer identification number has been provided to Covidien plc's transfer agent.
If any shareholder who is resident in the U.S. receives a dividend subject to DWT, he or she should generally be able to make an application for a refund from the Irish Revenue Commissioners on the prescribed form.
Shares Held by Residents of "Relevant Territories" Other Than the U.S.
Shareholders who are residents of "relevant territories" other than the U.S. who held shares of Covidien Ltd. on February 6, 2009 generally will receive dividends in 2009 without any DWT. For shares held beneficially, dividends will be paid in 2009 without any DWT if the address of the relevant shareholder in his or her broker's records is in a "relevant territory" other than the U.S. Covidien plc strongly recommends that such shareholders ensure that their information has been properly recorded by their brokers (so that such brokers can further transmit the relevant information to Covidien plc's qualifying intermediary). For shares held directly, dividends will be paid in 2009 without any DWT if the shareholder has provided a valid U.S. tax form showing an address in a "relevant territory" other than the U.S. to Covidien plc's transfer agent. Covidien plc strongly recommends that such shareholders ensure that the appropriate tax form has been provided to Covidien plc's transfer agent.
Shareholders who are residents of "relevant territories" other than the U.S. who acquired their shares of Covidien Ltd. after February 6, 2009 or who acquire their shares of Covidien plc after consummation of the Transaction must complete the appropriate Irish dividend withholding tax forms in order to receive their dividends without DWT. Such shareholders must provide the appropriate Irish dividend withholding tax forms to their brokers (so that such brokers can further transmit the relevant information to Covidien plc's qualifying intermediary) before the record date for the first dividend payment to which they are entitled (in the case of shares held beneficially), or to Covidien plc's transfer agent at least 7 business days before such record date (in the case of shares held directly). Covidien plc strongly recommends that such shareholders complete the appropriate Irish forms and provide them to their brokers or Covidien plc's transfer agent, as the case may be, as soon as possible after acquiring their shares.
In addition, all shareholders who are residents of "relevant territories" other than the U.S. (regardless of when such shareholders acquired their shares) must complete the appropriate Irish dividend withholding tax forms in order to receive their dividends in 2010 and later years without DWT. Such shareholders must provide the appropriate Irish forms to their brokers (so that such brokers can further transmit the relevant information to Covidien plc's qualifying intermediary) before the record date for the first dividend paid in 2010 (in the case of shares held beneficially), or to Covidien plc's transfer agent at least 7 business days before such record date (in the case of shares held directly). Covidien plc strongly recommends that such shareholders complete
 
the appropriate Irish forms and provide them to their brokers or Covidien plc's transfer agent, as the case may be, as soon as possible.
If any shareholder who is resident in a "relevant territory" receives a dividend subject to DWT, he or she may make an application for a refund from the Irish Revenue Commissioners on the prescribed form.
Please note that this exemption from DWT does not apply to a Covidien plc shareholder (other than a body corporate) that is resident or ordinarily resident in Ireland or to a body corporate that is under the control, whether directly or indirectly, of a person or persons who is or are resident in Ireland. However, it may be possible for such a shareholder to rely on a double tax treaty to limit the applicable DWT.
Shares Held by Residents of Ireland
Most Irish tax resident or ordinarily resident shareholders will be subject to DWT in respect of dividend payments on their Covidien plc shares.
Shareholders that are residents of Ireland but are entitled to receive dividends without DWT must complete the appropriate Irish forms and provide them to their brokers (so that such brokers can further transmit the relevant information to Covidien plc's qualifying intermediary) before the record date for the first dividend to which they are entitled (in the case of shares held beneficially), or to Covidien plc's transfer agent at least 7 business days before such record date (in the case of shares held directly). Shareholders who are resident or ordinarily resident in Ireland or are otherwise subject to Irish tax should consult their own tax advisor.
Shares Held by Other Persons
Covidien plc shareholders who do not reside in "relevant territories" or in Ireland will be subject to DWT, but there are a number of other exemptions that could apply on a case-by-case basis. Dividends paid to such shareholders will be paid subject to DWT unless the relevant shareholder has provided the appropriate Irish dividend withholding tax form to his or her broker (so that such broker can further transmit the relevant information to Covidien plc's qualifying intermediary) prior to the record date for the first dividend to which they are entitled (in the case of shares held beneficially), or to Covidien plc's transfer agent at least 7 business days before such record date (in the case of shares held directly). Covidien plc strongly recommends that such shareholders to whom an exemption applies complete the appropriate Irish forms and provide them to their brokers or Covidien plc's transfer agent, as the case may be, as soon as possible.
If any shareholder who is not a resident of a "relevant territory" or Ireland but is exempt from withholding receives a dividend subject to DWT, he or she may make an application for a refund from the Irish Revenue Commissioners on the prescribed form.
Income Tax on Dividends Paid on Covidien plc Shares
A shareholder who is neither resident nor ordinarily resident in Ireland and who is entitled to an exemption from DWT, generally has no Irish income tax liability on a dividend from
 
Covidien plc unless he or she holds their Covidien plc shares through a branch or agency in Ireland through which a trade is carried on.
Covidien plc shareholders that are neither resident nor ordinarily resident in Ireland and who are not entitled to an exemption from DWT generally have no additional Irish income tax liability or liability to the income and health levies unless they hold their shares through a branch or agency in Ireland through which a trade is carried on. The DWT deducted by Covidien plc discharges such liability to tax provided that the shareholder furnishes a statement of DWT imposed to the Irish Revenue.
Irish resident or ordinarily resident shareholders may be subject to Irish tax and/or levies on dividends received from Covidien plc. Such shareholders should consult their own tax advisor.
Capital Acquisitions Tax
Irish capital acquisitions tax ("CAT") comprises principally of gift tax and inheritance tax. CAT could apply to a gift or inheritance of Covidien plc ordinary shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. This is because Covidien plc ordinary shares are regarded as property situated in Ireland as the share register of Covidien plc must be held in Ireland. The person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for CAT.
CAT is levied at a rate of 22 percent above certain tax-free thresholds. This rate will increase to 25% with effect from April 8, 2009, assuming that the Finance Bill 2009 is enacted in its current proposed form. The appropriate tax-free threshold is dependent upon (1) the relationship between the donor and the donee and (2) the aggregation of the values of previous gifts and inheritances received by the donee from persons within the same group threshold. Gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from CAT.
Stamp Duty
A transfer of Covidien plc shares from a seller who holds shares beneficially to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially will not be subject to Irish stamp duty (unless the transfer involves a change in the nominee that is the record holder of the transferred shares).
A transfer of Covidien plc shares by a seller who holds shares directly to any buyer, or by a seller who holds the shares beneficially to a buyer who holds the acquired shares directly, may be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired, if higher). Stamp duty is a liability of the buyer or transferee. A shareholder who holds Covidien plc shares directly may transfer those shares into his or her own broker account (or vice versa) without giving rise to Irish stamp duty provided there is no change in the ultimate beneficial ownership of the shares as a result of the transfer and the transfer is not in contemplation of a sale of the shares. In order to benefit from this exemption from stamp duty, the seller must confirm to Covidien plc that there is no change in the ultimate beneficial ownership of the shares as a result of the transfer and the transfer is not in contemplation of a sale of the shares. Due to the termination of Covidien Ltd.'s Investor Services Program prior to the
 
Transaction Time, a person wishing to acquire shares directly may need to purchase the shares through a broker account and then transfer such shares into his or her own name.
Because of the potential Irish stamp duty on transfers of Covidien plc shares, Covidien plc strongly recommends that all directly registered shareholders open broker accounts so they can transfer their shares into a broker account as soon as possible. Covidien plc also strongly recommends that any person who wishes to acquire Covidien plc shares acquire such shares beneficially.
We currently intend to pay (or cause one of our affiliates to pay) stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. In other cases Covidien plc may, in its absolute discretion, pay (or cause one of its affiliates to pay) any stamp duty. Covidien plc's articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, Covidien plc (i) may seek reimbursement from the buyer, (ii) will have a lien against the Covidien plc shares acquired by such buyer and any dividends paid on such shares and (iii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends on such shares. Parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in Covidien plc shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by Covidien plc.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 5, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cert. No.: 466385
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The objects set forth in any sub-clause of this clause shall be regarded as independent objects and shall not, except where the context expressly so requires, be in any way limited or restricted by reference to or inference from the terms of any other sub-clause, or by the name of the Company. None of such sub-clauses or the objects therein specified or the powers thereby conferred shall be deemed subsidiary or auxiliary merely to the objects mentioned in the first sub-clause of this clause, but the Company shall have full power to exercise all or any of the powers conferred by any part of this clause in any part of the world notwithstanding that the business, property or acts proposed to be transacted, acquired or performed do not fall within the objects of the first sub-clause of this clause.
 
 
 
 
 
We, the several persons whose names and addresses are subscribed, wish to be formed into a company in pursuance of this memorandum of association and we agree to take the number of shares in the capital of the company set opposite our respective names.
 
Dated the 14
th
day of January 2009
Witness to the above signatures:
Louise Gaffney, Arthur Cox Building,
Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares may be subject to the terms of issue of any series or class of preferred shares allotted by the Directors from time to time in accordance with article 3(c).
 
 
 
 
 
which rights and restrictions may be as stated in such resolution or resolutions of the Directors as determined by them in accordance with this article 3(c). The Board may at any time before the allotment of any preferred share by further resolution in any way amend the designations, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations or restrictions, or vary or revoke the designations of such preferred shares.
The rights conferred upon the Holder of any pre-existing shares in the share capital of the Company shall be deemed not to be varied by the creation, issue and allotment of preferred shares in accordance with this article 3.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless a poll is so demanded, a declaration by the Chairman that a resolution has, on a show of hands, been carried or carried unanimously, or by a particular majority, or lost, and an entry to that effect in the book containing the minutes of the proceedings of the Company, shall be conclusive evidence of the fact without proof of the number or proportion of the votes recorded in favour of or against such resolution.
The demand for a poll may be withdrawn.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Directors have elected a Director to be the Chairman, the Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board and at general meetings of the Company.
 
One of the senior executives shall be appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Company by the Board. The Chief Executive Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be conferred upon him or her by the Board.
 
The President shall be appointed by the Directors and shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board may assign.
 
Each Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be conferred upon him or her by the Board or determined by the Chief Executive Officer.
 
The Treasurer shall have the oversight and control of the funds of the Company and shall have the power and authority to make and endorse notes, drafts and checks and other obligations necessary for the transaction of the business of the Company except as otherwise provided in these articles.
 
The Controller shall have the oversight and control of the accounting records of the Company and shall prepare such accounting reports and recommendations as shall be appropriate for the operation of the Company.
 
It shall be the duty of the Secretary to make and keep records of the votes, doings and proceedings of all meetings of the members and Board of the Company, and of its Committees, and to authenticate records of the Company. The Secretary shall be appointed by the Directors for such term, at such remuneration and upon such conditions as they may think fit; and any Secretary so appointed may be removed by them.
A provision of the Acts or these articles requiring or authorising a thing to be done by or to a Director and the Secretary shall not be satisfied by its being done by or to the same person acting both as Director and as, or in place of, the Secretary.
 
The Assistant Treasurers shall have such duties as the Treasurer shall determine.
 
The Assistant Secretaries shall have such duties as the Secretary shall determine.
 
The powers and duties of all other officers are at all times subject to the control of the Directors, and any other officer may be removed at any time at the pleasure of the Board.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and it shall be presumed conclusively in favour of the Company that every share certificate (if any) so destroyed was a valid certificate duly and properly sealed and that every instrument of transfer so destroyed was a valid and effective instrument duly and properly registered and that every other document destroyed hereunder was a valid and effective document in accordance with the recorded particulars thereof in the books or records of the Company provided always that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated the 14
th
day of January 2009
Witness to the above signatures:
Louise Gaffney, Arthur Cox Building,
Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin 2
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
        Number     466385
        I hereby certify that
      COVIDIEN PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
        is this day incorporated under
        the Companies Acts 1963 to 2006,
        and that the company is limited.
        Given under my hand at Dublin, this
        Friday, the 16th day of January, 2009
        
        for Registrar of Companies
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION VERSION
THIS FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is dated as of June 4, 2009 among Covidien International Finance S.A., a Luxembourg company (the ""), Covidien Ltd., a Bermuda company (""), Covidien plc, an Irish company (""), and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, a New York banking corporation (the "").
Company
Covidien Ltd.
Covidien plc
Trustee
A. The Company, Covidien Ltd. and the Trustee executed and delivered an Indenture (the ""), as supplemented by the First through Fourth Supplemental Indentures (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""), each dated as of October 22, 2007.
Base Indenture
Prior Supplemental Indentures
Indenture
B. Covidien Ltd. and Covidien plc are engaging in a transaction pursuant to which Covidien Ltd. will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Covidien plc, and Covidien plc will become the successor company for purposes of public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
C. The Boards of Directors of the Company and Covidien Ltd. have determined it is desirable to add Covidien plc as an additional guarantor under the Indenture with respect to the Securities outstanding as of the date hereof and Securities that may be issued from time to time after the date hereof under the Indenture, to substitute Covidien plc for Covidien Ltd. with respect to certain provisions of the Indenture and to make certain other amendments to the Indenture.
D. Pursuant to this Fifth Supplemental Indenture, Covidien plc is willing to become, jointly and severally with Covidien Ltd., a guarantor under the Indenture and to observe all of the covenants and agreements of the Indenture to be performed or observed by Covidien Ltd.
E. This Fifth Supplemental Indenture is being entered into pursuant to Section 9.01(h) of the Indenture and the entry into this Fifth Supplemental Indenture by the parties hereto is in all respects authorized by the provisions of the Indenture.
F. All things necessary to make this Fifth Supplemental Indenture a valid indenture and agreement according to its terms have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing premises, the Company, Covdien Ltd., Covidien plc and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective holders from time to time of the Securities as follows:
Section 1.1 .
Amendments to Base Indenture
(1) Article I of the Base Indenture is amended as follows:
(A) The following new definition is added in appropriate alphabetical order:
 
"" means Covidien plc until a successor entity shall have become such pursuant to Article X, and thereafter "Holdco" shall mean such successor entity.
Holdco
(B) The following definitions are amended to read as follows:
"" means the Board of Directors of the Company, Parent or Holdco, as applicable, or any duly authorized committee of such Board of Directors.
Board of Directors
"" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, Parent or Holdco to have been duly adopted by its Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification.
Board Resolution
"" means a currency, currency unit or composite currency, including the euro, issued by the government of one or more countries other than the United States or by any recognized confederation or association of such governments or a composite currency the value of which is determined by reference to the values of the currencies of any group of countries.
Foreign Currency
"" means the unconditional and unsubordinated guarantee, jointly and severally, by Parent and Holdco of the due and punctual payment of principal of and interest on a series of Securities when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture.
Guarantee
"" means any managing director, the chairman or any vice chairman of the Board of Directors, the chief executive officer, the president, the chief financial officer, any vice president, the treasurer, any assistant treasurer, the secretary or any assistant secretary of the Company, Parent or Holdco, as the case may be.
Officer
"" means a certificate, signed by any managing director or by the chairman or any vice chairman of the Board of Directors, or the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or vice president or the secretary or any assistant secretary or the treasurer or any assistant treasurer of the Company, Parent or Holdco, as the case may be, that is delivered to the Trustee in accordance with the terms hereof. Each such certificate shall include the statements provided for in Section 13.06, if and to the extent required by the provisions thereof.
Officer's Certificate
"" means an opinion in writing of legal counsel, who may be an Officer or employee of or counsel for Holdco, Parent or the Company that is delivered to the Trustee in accordance with the terms hereof. Each such opinion shall include the statements provided for in Section 13.06, if and to the extent required by the provisions thereof.
Opinion of Counsel
(2) Article II of the Base Indenture is amended as follows:
(A) Sections 2.04, 2.05, 2.06, 2.07 and 2.11 are amended by inserting the words "and Holdco" immediately following each use of the word "Parent", except that the third paragraph of
 
Section 2.05(a) is amended to delete and replace the words "Company and Parent" with the words "Company, Parent and Holdco".
(B) The form of the Guarantee set forth in Section 2.16 is amended to read as follows
For value received, each of Covidien plc and Covidien Ltd. hereby jointly and severally, absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the holder of this Security the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, the Security upon which this Guarantee is set forth in the amounts and at the time when due and payable whether by declaration thereof, or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal and interest, if any, of such Security, if lawful, to the holder of such Security and the Trustee on behalf of the Holders, all in accordance with and subject to the terms and limitations of such Security and Article XV of the Indenture. This Guarantee will not become effective until the Trustee or Authenticating Agent duly executes the certificate of authentication on this Security. This Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflict of law principles thereof.
Dated:
 
(3) Article III of the Base Indenture is amended as follows:
Section 3.03(b) is amended to insert the words "and Holdco" immediately following each use of the word "Parent".
(4) Article IV of the Base Indenture is amended as follows:
(A) Section 4.03 is amended to insert the word "Holdco," immediately preceding each use of the word "Parent".
 
(B) Section 4.04 is be amended to read as follows:
Section 4.04 .
Statement by Officers as to Default
So long as any of the Securities remain outstanding, the Company, Parent and Holdco will furnish to the Trustee on or before March 31 in each year a brief certificate (which need not comply with Section 13.06) executed by the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of each of the Company, Parent and Holdco on their respective behalf as to his or her knowledge of the Company's, Parent's or Holdco's, as the case may be, compliance with all covenants and agreements under this Indenture required to be complied with by the Company, Parent and Holdco, respectively (such compliance to be determined without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided under this Indenture). Such certificate need not include a reference to any non-compliance that has been fully cured prior to the date as of which such certificate speaks.
The Company shall provide written notice to the Trustee within 30 days of the occurrence of any Event of Default under Section 6.01.
(5) Article V of the Base Indenture is amended as follows:
Section 5.03 is amended to delete and replace each use of the word "Parent" with the word "Holdco".
(6) Article VI of the Base Indenture is amended as follows:
(A) Clauses (4) and (5) of Section 6.01(a), the second paragraph of Section 6.01(a), Section 6.01(b) and (c) and Section 6.08 are amended to insert the word "Holdco," immediately preceding each use of the word "Parent".
(B) The second paragraph of Section 6.01(a) is amended to insert the word "Holdco's," immediately preceding the word "Parent's".
(C) Clauses (6) and (7) of Section 6.01(a) and Section 6.02 are amended to delete and replace each use of the words "Company or Parent" with the words "Company, Parent or Holdco".
(7) Article VII of the Base Indenture is amended as follows:
Section 7.06(a) is amended to delete and replace the words "Company and Parent" with the words "Company, Parent and Holdco".
(8) Article VIII of the Base Indenture is amended as follows:
Section 8.04 is amended to insert the word "Holdco," immediately preceding each use of the word "Parent".
(9) Article IX of the Base Indenture is amended as follows:
 
(A) Sections 9.01, 9.02, 9.03 and 9.05 are amended to insert" with the word "Holdco," immediately preceding each use of the word "Parent", other than the use of the word "Parent" in Section 9.01(i).
(B) Section 9.01(i) is amended to insert the words "Holdco or" immediately preceding the word "Parent".
(10) Article X of the Base Indenture is amended as follows:
Sections 10.01 and 10.02 are amended to insert the word "Holdco," immediately preceding each use of the word "Parent".
(11) Article XI of the Base Indenture is amended as follows:
Sections 11.02 through 11.07 are amended to insert the word "Holdco," immediately preceding each use of the word "Parent" and Sections 11.02 and 11.03 are amended to insert the word "Holdco's," immediately preceding each use of the word "Parent's".
(12) Article XII of the Base Indenture is amended as follows:
Section 12.01 is amended to insert the word "Holdco," immediately preceding each use of the word "Parent".
(13) Article XIII of the Base Indenture is amended as follows:
(A) Sections 13.01, 13.02, 13.03, 13.06 and 13.13 are amended to insert the word "Holdco," immediately preceding each use of the word "Parent", other than the second use of the word "Parent" in Section 13.03.
(B) Pursuant to Section 13.03 of the Base Indenture, the Company hereby designates the following as an additional address for subsequent notices or communications to Parent and Section 13.03 is amended to insert such additional address immediately following the address for notices sent to Parent:
 
(14) Article XIV of the Base Indenture is amended as follows:
(A) Sections 14.01 and 14.02 are amended to delete and replace each use of the words "the Company or Parent" and "Parent or the Company" with the words "Holdco, Parent or the
 
Company", other than in the last sentence of Section 14.01, and Section 14.02 is amended further to insert the word "Holding's," before the word "Parent's".
(B) The last sentence of Section 14.01 is amended to read as follows:
Prior to the giving of any notice of redemption described in this paragraph, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee (i)(A) certificate signed by two directors of the Company stating that the obligation to pay Additional Amounts cannot be avoided by the Company taking commercially reasonable measures available to it, (B) a certificate signed by two Officers of Parent stating that the obligation to pay Additional Amounts cannot be avoided by Parent taking commercially reasonable measures available to it or (C) a certificate signed by two Officers of Holdco stating that the obligation to pay Additional Amounts cannot be avoided by Holdco taking commercially reasonable measures available to it, as the case may be, and (ii) a written opinion of independent legal counsel to Holdco, Parent or the Company, as the case may be, of recognized standing to the effect that the Company has or there is a material probability that it will become obligated to pay Additional Amounts as a result of a change, amendment, official interpretation or application described above and that Holdco, Parent or the Company, as the case may be, cannot avoid the payment of such Additional Amounts by taking commercially reasonable measures available to it.
(15) Article XV of the Base Indenture is amended to read as follows:
Section 15.01 .
Guarantee
Each of Holdco and Parent hereby jointly and severally, fully and unconditionally guarantees (i) to each holder of each Security that is authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, and (ii) to the Trustee on behalf of such Holder, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on such Security when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of such Security and of this Indenture. In case of the failure of the Company punctually to make any such payment, each of Holdco and Parent hereby agrees to cause such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated maturity or by acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company.
Each of Holdco and Parent hereby agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional, irrespective of, and shall be unaffected by, the validity, regularity or enforceability of such Security or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same or any release, amendment, waiver or indulgence granted to the Company, Parent or Holdco or any consent to departure from any requirement of any other guarantee of all or any of the Securities or any other circumstances which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor.
 
Each of Holdco and Parent hereby waives the benefits of diligence, presentment, demand for payment, any requirement that the Trustee or any of the Holders protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest in or other lien on any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against the Company or any other Person or any collateral, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice with respect to such Security or the indebtedness evidenced thereby and all demands whatsoever, and covenants that this Guarantee will not be discharged in respect of such Security except by complete performance of the obligations contained in such Security and in such Guarantee. Each of Holdco and Parent agrees that if, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee or any of the Holders of the applicable series of Securities are prevented by applicable law from exercising their respective rights to accelerate the maturity of such Securities, to collect interest on such Securities, or to enforce or exercise any other right or remedy with respect to such Securities, Holdco and Parent agree to pay to the Trustee for the account of such Holders, upon demand therefor, the amount that would otherwise have been due and payable had such rights and remedies been permitted to be exercised by the Trustee or any of such Holders.
Each of Holdco and Parent shall be subrogated to all rights of the holders of the Securities against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by Holdco or Parent, as the case may be, on account of such Security pursuant to the provisions of its Guarantee or this Indenture; provided, however, that Holdco or Parent, as the case may be, shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payment arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of and interest on all Securities of such series issued hereunder shall have been paid in full.
The Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect and continue to be effective should any petition be filed by or against the Company for liquidation or reorganization, should the Company become insolvent or make an assignment for the benefit of creditors or should a receiver or trustee be appointed for all or any part of the Company's assets, and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment and performance of such Securities, is, pursuant to applicable law, rescinded or reduced in amount, or must otherwise be restored or returned by any holder of such Securities, whether as a "voidable preference," "fraudulent transfer," or otherwise, all as though such payment or performance had not been made. In the event that any payment, or any part thereof, is rescinded, reduced, restored or returned, such Securities shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be reinstated and deemed reduced only by such amount paid and not so rescinded, reduced, restored or returned.
Any term or provision of the Guarantee to the contrary notwithstanding, the aggregate amount of the obligations guaranteed hereunder shall be reduced to the extent necessary to prevent such Guarantee from violating or becoming voidable under applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
 
Section 15.02 Execution and Delivery of Guarantee.
The Guarantee shall include the terms of the Guarantee set forth in Section 15.01 and shall be substantially in the form established pursuant to Section 2.16. Each of Holdco and Parent hereby agrees to execute its Guarantee, in a form established pursuant to Section 2.16, on each Security authenticated and delivered by the Trustee.
The Guarantee shall be executed on behalf of Holdco and Parent, in each case, by any one of its chairman of the Board of Directors, president, vice presidents or other person duly authorized by Holdco's or Parent's Board of Directors, as the case may be. The signature of any or all of these persons on the Guarantee may be manual or facsimile.
A Guarantee bearing the manual or facsimile signature of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of Holdco or Parent, as the case may be, shall bind Holdco or Parent, as the case may be, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of any Security or did not hold such offices at the date of such Guarantee.
The delivery of any Security by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof, shall constitute due delivery of the Guarantee on behalf of Holdco and Parent and shall bind Holdco and Parent notwithstanding the fact that the Guarantee does not bear the signature of Holdco or Parent. Each of Holdco and Parent agrees that its Guarantee set forth in Section 15.01 and in the form of Guarantee established pursuant to Section 2.16 shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to execute a Guarantee on any such Security.
Section 15.03 Release of Guarantee.
Notwithstanding anything in this Article XV to the contrary, concurrently with the payment in full of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on Securities of a series, each of Holdco and Parent shall be released from and relieved of its obligations under this Article XV with respect to the Securities of such series. Upon the delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of this Guarantee was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Securities, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of each of Holdco and Parent from its obligations under this Guarantee. If any of the obligations to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on such Securities and all other obligations of the Company are revived and reinstated after the termination of this Guarantee, then all of the obligations of each of Holdco and Parent under this Guarantee shall be revived and reinstated as if this Guarantee had not been terminated until such time as the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on such Securities are paid in full, and each of Holdco and Parent shall enter into an amendment to this Guarantee, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, evidencing such revival and reinstatement.
Section 1.2 .
Amendments to Prior Supplemental Indentures
 
 
 
 
"" means Indebtedness upon the enforcement of which recourse may be had by the holder(s) thereof only to identified assets of Holdco, Parent or the Company or any Subsidiary of Holdco, Parent or the Company and not to Holdco, Parent or the Company or any Subsidiary of Holdco, Parent or the Company personally (subject to, for the avoidance of doubt, customary exceptions contained in non-recourse financings to the non-recourse nature of the obligations thereunder).
Non-Recourse Indebtedness
"" means any U.S. manufacturing, processing or assembly plant or any U.S. warehouse or distribution facility of Holdco or any of its Subsidiaries that is used by any U.S. Subsidiary of the Company and (A) is owned by Parent or any Subsidiary of Parent on the date hereof, (B) the initial construction of which has been completed after the date hereof, or (C) is acquired after the date hereof, in each case, other than any such plants, facilities, warehouses or portions thereof, that in the opinion of the Board of Directors of Holdco, are not collectively of material importance to the total business conducted by Holdco and its subsidiaries as an entirety, or that has a net book value (excluding any capitalized interest expense), on the date hereof in the case of clause (A) of this definition, on the date of completion of the initial construction in the case of clause (B) of this definition or on the date of acquisition in the case of clause (C) of this definition, of less than 2.0% of Consolidated Tangible Assets on the consolidated balance sheet of Parent and its subsidiaries as of the applicable date if the applicable date is prior to the date of the Fifth Supplemental Indenture to the Base Indenture or of Holdco and its subsidiaries as of the applicable date if the applicable date is on or after the date of the Fifth Supplemental Indenture to the Base Indenture.
Principal Property
"" means an arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of any Principal Property whereby such Principal Property has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary to such Person other than Holdco, Parent, the Company or any of their respective Subsidiaries; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not apply to any such arrangement involving a lease for a term, including renewal rights, for not more than three years.
Sale and Lease-Back Transaction
(2) Section 1.3 of each of the Prior Supplemental Indentures shall be amended as follows:
Section 1.3(1)(e) shall be amended to read as follows:
 
(e) liens securing Indebtedness owing by any Restricted Subsidiary to the Company, Parent or Holdco or a subsidiary thereof or by the Company to Parent or Holdco;
(3) Section 1.4 of each of the Prior Supplemental Indentures is amended as follows:
The additional event established and constituting an Event of Default under Section 6.01 of the Base Indenture is amended to read as follows:
(9) an event of default shall happen and be continuing with respect to the Company's, Parent's or Holdco's Indebtedness for borrowed money (other than Non-Recourse Indebtedness) under any indenture or other instrument evidencing or under which the Company, Parent or Holdco shall have a principal amount outstanding (such amount with respect to original issue discount bonds or zero coupon notes, bonds or debentures or similar securities based on the accreted amount determined in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles and as of the date of the most recently prepared consolidated balance sheet of the Company, Parent or Holdco, as the case may be) in excess of $100,000,000, and such event of default shall involve the failure to pay the principal of such Indebtedness on the final maturity date thereof after the expiration of any applicable grace period with respect thereto, or such Indebtedness shall have been accelerated so that the same shall have become due and payable prior to the date on which the same would otherwise have become due and payable, and such acceleration shall not be rescinded or annulled within ten Business Days after notice thereof shall have been given to the Company, Parent and Holdco by the Trustee, or to the Company, Parent, Holdco and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected thereby; provided that, if such event of default under such indenture or instrument shall be remedied or cured by the Company, Parent or Holdco or waived by the requisite holders of such Indebtedness, then the Event of Default hereunder by reason thereof shall be deemed likewise to have been thereupon remedied, cured or waived without further action upon the part of either the Trustee or any of the Securityholders, and provided further, however, that subject to the provisions of Sections 7.01 and 7.02, the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of any such event of default unless written notice thereof shall have been given to the Trustee by the Company, Parent or Holdco, as the case may be, by the holder or an agent of the holder of any such Indebtedness, by the trustee then acting under any indenture or other instrument under which such default shall have occurred, or by the Holders of not less than 25% in the aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities of all series affected thereby.
(4) The forms of Securities set forth in Exhibit A to each of the Prior Supplemental Indentures are amended to read as set forth in Annex A hereto with respect to the First Supplemental Indenture, Annex B hereto with respect to the Second Supplemental Indenture, Annex C hereto with respect to the Third Supplemental Indenture and Annex D hereto with respect to the Fourth Supplemental Indenture. Pursuant to Section 9.04 of the Base Indenture, new Securities of each such series shall be prepared by the Company, authenticated by the Trustee and delivered in exchange for the Securities of each such series Outstanding as of the date hereof.
 
Section 2.1 .
Definitions
Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture.
Section 2.2 .
Confirmation of Indenture
The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Fifth Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Indenture, this Fifth Supplemental Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. Holdco, by its execution of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture, agrees to be bound by the terms of the Indenture, as so supplemented, that are applicable to Holdco.
Section 2.3 .
Concerning the Trustee
In carrying out the Trustee's responsibilities hereunder, the Trustee shall have all of the rights, protections and immunities which it possesses under the Indenture. The Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the recitals contained herein. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture.
Section 2.4 .
GOVERNING LAW
THIS FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT MADE UNDER THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF SAID STATE WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD REQUIRE THE APPLICATION OF ANY OTHER LAW.
Section 2.5 .
Effectiveness
This Fifth Supplemental Indenture shall become effective upon execution by the Company, Covidien Ltd., Covidien plc and the Trustee.
Section 2.6 .
Counterparts
This Fifth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 2.7 .
No Benefit
Nothing in this Fifth Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any Person other than the parties hereto and their successors or assigns, and the holders of the Securities, any
 
benefit or legal or equitable rights, remedy or claim under this Fifth Supplemental Indenture or the Indenture.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Fifth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of [            ] Dollars on October 15, 2010.
Interest Payment Dates: April 15 and October 15
Record Dates: April 1 and October 1
Each holder of this Security (as defined below), by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and of the Indenture described herein, and authorizes and directs the Trustee described herein on such holder's behalf to be bound by such provisions. Each holder of this Security hereby waives all notice of the acceptance of the provisions contained herein and in the Indenture and waives reliance by such holder upon said provisions.
This Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been signed by or on behalf of the Trustee. The provisions of this Security are continued on the reverse side hereof, and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be signed in accordance with Section 2.04 of the Indenture.
Date: [            ]
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
For value received, each of Covidien plc and Covidien Ltd. hereby jointly and severally, absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the holder of this Security the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, the Security upon which this Guarantee is set forth in the amounts and at the time when due and payable whether by declaration thereof, or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal and interest, if any, of such Security, if lawful, to the holder of such Security and the Trustee on behalf of the Holders, all in accordance with and subject to the terms and limitations of such Security and Article XV of the Indenture. This Guarantee will not become effective until the Trustee or Authenticating Agent duly executes the certificate of authentication on this Security. This Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflict of law principles thereof.
Dated:
 
 
This security is one of a duly authorized series of debt securities of Covidien International Finance S.A., a Luxembourg company (the "Company"), issued or to be issued in one or more series under and pursuant to an Indenture for the Company's unsubordinated debt securities, dated as of October 22, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), duly executed and delivered by and among the Company, Covidien Ltd. ("Parent") and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 22, 2007 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), by and among the Company, Parent and the Trustee, and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 4, 2009 (the "Fifth Supplemental Indenture"), by and among the Company, Parent, Covidien plc ("Holdco") and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the "Indenture." By the terms of the Base Indenture, the debt securities issuable thereunder are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This security is one of the series designated on the face hereof (individually, a "Security," and collectively, the "Securities"), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee, the Company, Parent, Holdco and the holders of the Securities (the "Securityholders"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the Base Indenture or the First Supplemental Indenture, as applicable, in each case as amended by the Fifth Supplemental Indenture.
1. . The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Security at an annual rate of 5.150%. The Company will pay interest semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year (each such day, an "Interest Payment Date"). If any Interest Payment Date, redemption date or maturity date of this Security is not a Business Day, then payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the date such payment was due, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such date to the date of such payment on the next succeeding Business Day. Interest on the Securities will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that, if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Security is authenticated between a regular record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; and provided, further, that the first Interest Payment Date shall be April 15, 2008. Interest will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In certain circumstances, liquidated damages may be payable as provided in Section 6.01 of the Indenture. Any such liquidated damages shall be payable in the same manner and on the same dates as the stated interest payable on this Security.
Interest
The Holder of this Security is entitled to the benefits of the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement. Pursuant to the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed (i) to file the Exchange Registration Statement (as defined in the Exchange and
 
Registration Rights Agreement) as soon as practicable, but no later than 210 days after the Closing Date (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement), (ii) to use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Exchange Registration Statement to become effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable, but no later than 300 days after the Closing Date, and (iii) to use its commercially reasonable efforts to commence and complete the Exchange Offer (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) promptly, but no later than 45 days after such registration statement has become effective, hold the Exchange Offer open for at least 30 days and exchange Exchange Securities (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) for all Registrable Securities (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) that have been properly tendered and not withdrawn on or prior to the expiration of the Exchange Offer. If (i) on or prior to the time the Exchange Offer is completed existing SEC interpretations are changed such that debt securities or the related guarantee received by holders other than Restricted Holders (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) in the Exchange Offer for Registrable Securities (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) are not or would not be, upon receipt, transferable by each such holder without restriction under the Securities Act, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not completed within 345 days after the Closing Date or (iii) the Exchange Offer is not available to any Holder, then, in each case, the Company is required to (a) as soon as practicable but no later than 60 days after the time such obligation to file arises, file a Shelf Registration Statement (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) and (b) use its commercially reasonable best efforts to cause the Shelf Registration Statement to become or be declared effective within 120 days after such Shelf Registration Statement is filed and to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the earlier of two years after the date as of which the Shelf Registration Statement became or was declared effective or such time as there are no longer any Registrable Securities outstanding. If (i) the Company fails to file the Exchange Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement on or before the date specified for such filing, (ii) any of the Exchange Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement is not declared effective by the date specified for such effectiveness, (iii) the Company fails to complete the Exchange Offer within 45 after the effectiveness target date with respect to the Exchange Registration Statement, (iv) any of the Exchange Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective but thereafter is withdrawn or ceases to be effective due to a stop order issued pursuant to the Securities Act suspending the effectiveness of such registration statement without being succeeded by an additional registration statement filed and declared effective or (v) the Company requires Holders to refrain from disposing of their Registrable Securities under certain circumstances described in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement and that suspension period exceeds 45 days in any one instance or 90 days in the aggregate during any consecutive 12 month period (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (v), a "Registration Default" and each period during which a Registration Default has occurred and is continuing, a "Registration Default Period"), then, as liquidated damages for such Registration Default, subject to certain exceptions, special interest ("Special Interest") shall accrue at a per annum rate of 0.25% for the first 90 days of the Registration Default Period and at a per annum rate of 0.50% thereafter for the remaining portion of the Registration Default Period.
2. . The Company will pay interest on the Securities (except defaulted interest), if any, to the persons in whose name such Securities are registered at the close of business on the regular record date referred to on the facing page of this Security for
Method of Payment
 
such interest installment. In the event that the Securities or a portion thereof are called for redemption and the Redemption Date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Securities will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Securities as provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on the Securities shall be payable in the coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time is legal tender for public and private debt, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the Indenture.
3. . Initially, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, the Trustee, will act as paying agent and Security Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any paying agent or Security Registrar without notice to any Securityholder. Holdco, Parent, the Company or any of their Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
4. . The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ("TIA") as in effect on the date the Indenture is qualified. The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Securityholders are referred to the Indenture and TIA for a statement of such terms. The Securities are unsecured general obligations of the Company and constitute the series designated on the face hereof as the "5.150% Senior Notes due 2010", initially limited to $250,000,000 in aggregate principal amount. The Company will furnish to any Securityholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to: Covidien International Finance S.A., 4th Floor, 3b bd Prince Henri, L-1724 Luxembourg, Attention: The Managing Directors.
Indenture
5. . The Securities may not be redeemed at the option of the Company prior to the maturity date, except as provided in Article XIV of the Base Indenture, as amended.
Optional Redemption
The Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Securities.
6. . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem this Security, the holder of this Security will have the right to require that the Company purchase all or a portion, in $1,000 increments ( that any remaining principal amount thereof shall be at least the minimum authorized denomination thereof), of this Security at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount hereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase. Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of the Change of Control, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer.
Change of Control Triggering Event
provided
7. . The Securities are in registered form without coupons in the denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Securities may be registered and Securities may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Securities may be presented for exchange or for registration of transfer (duly endorsed or with the form of transfer endorsed thereon duly executed if so required by the
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
Company or the Security Registrar) at the office of the Security Registrar or at the office of any transfer agent designated by the Company for such purpose. No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or exchange, but a Securityholder may be required to pay any applicable taxes or other governmental charges. If the Securities are to be redeemed, the Company will not be required to: (i) issue, register the transfer of, or exchange any Security during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of mailing of a notice of redemption of less than all of the outstanding Securities of the same series and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing; (ii) register the transfer of or exchange any Security of any series or portions thereof selected for redemption, in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any such Security being redeemed in part; nor (iii) register the transfer of or exchange a Security of any series between the applicable record date and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date.
8. . The registered Securityholder may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
9. . Any funds or Governmental Obligations deposited with any paying agent or the Trustee, or then held by Holdco, Parent or the Company, in trust for payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of a particular series that are not applied but remain unclaimed by the holders of such Securities for at least one year after the date upon which the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on such Securities shall have respectively become due and payable, shall be repaid to Holdco, Parent or the Company, as applicable, or (if then held by Holdco, Parent or the Company) shall be discharged from such trust. After return to the Company, Parent or Holdco, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company, Parent or Holdco, as applicable, for payment as unsecured general creditors.
Repayment to Holdco, Parent or the Company
10. . The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company, Parent, Holdco and the Trustee, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities to enter into supplemental indentures for the purpose of adding, changing or eliminating any provisions to the Base Indenture or supplemental indenture or indentures or of modifying in any manner not covered elsewhere in the Base Indenture the rights of the holders of the Securities of such series; , , that no such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the holders of each Security then Outstanding and affected thereby, shall: (i) extend a fixed maturity of or any installment of principal of any Securities of any series or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the amount of principal of any original issue discount security that would be due and payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof; (ii) reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest of any Security of any series; (iii) reduce the premium payable upon the redemption of any Security; (iv) make any Security payable in Currency other than that stated in the Security; (v) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the fixed maturity thereof (or in the case or redemption, on or after the redemption date); or (vi) reduce the percentage of Securities, the holders of which are required to consent to any such supplemental indenture or indentures. The Base Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding securities of each series affected thereby, on behalf of all of the holders of the securities of such series, to waive any past Default under the Base Indenture, and its
Amendments, Supplements and Waivers
provided
however
 
consequences, except a Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any security of such series or a Default in respect of a covenant or provision of the Base Indenture that cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holder of each Outstanding security of such affected series. Any such consent or waiver by the registered Securityholder shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders and owners of this Security and of any Security issued in exchange for this Security or in place hereof (whether by registration of transfer or otherwise), irrespective of whether or not any notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
11. . If an Event of Default with respect to the securities of a series issued pursuant to the Base Indenture occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company, Parent and Holdco (and to the Trustee if notice is given by such holders), may declare the unpaid principal of, premium, if any, and accrued interest, if any, due and payable immediately. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, if an Event of Default under the Indenture shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights or powers under the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the holders, unless such holders have offered the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding securities of a series issued pursuant to the Base Indenture will have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the securities of such series.
Defaults and Remedies
12. . The Trustee, subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, or any paying agent or Security Registrar, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, paying agent or Security Registrar.
Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar May Hold Securities
13. . No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect hereof or thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, past, present or future as such, of Holdco, Parent or the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, either directly or through Holdco, Parent or the Company or any such predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that the Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder and thereunder are solely corporate obligations, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators, shareholders, officers or directors as such, of Holdco, Parent or the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, or any of them, because of the creation of the indebtedness authorized by the Indenture, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in the Securities or implied therefrom; and that any and all such personal liability of every name and nature, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, of, and any and all such rights and claims against, every such incorporator, shareholder, officer or director as such, because of the creation of the indebtedness authorized by the Indenture, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in the Securities or implied therefrom, are
No Recourse Against Others
 
hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the acceptance of the Securities.
14. . The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
Discharge of Indenture
15. . This Security shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication attached to the other side of this Security.
Authentication
16. . All payments by the Company under the Indenture and this Security are jointly and severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed to the holder of this Security by Holdco and Parent, as provided in the related Guarantee and the Indenture.
Guarantees
17. . The Company, Parent and Holdco are obligated to pay Additional Amounts on this Security to the extent provided in Article XIV of the Indenture.
Additional Amounts
18. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
19. . The Base Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture and this Security (and the Guarantee hereon) shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of said State.
Governing Law
 
To assign this Security, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Security to
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
Date:
                    
 
Signature Guarantee:
                                         
 
If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.3(3) of the First Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
  1.3(3) Change of Control Triggering Event
If you want to elect to have only part of this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.3(3) of the First Supplemental Indenture, state the amount: $            .
 
 
 
 
promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of [            ] Dollars on October 15, 2012.
Interest Payment Dates: April 15 and October 15
Record Dates: April 1 and October 1
Each holder of this Security (as defined below), by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and of the Indenture described herein, and authorizes and directs the Trustee described herein on such holder's behalf to be bound by such provisions. Each holder of this Security hereby waives all notice of the acceptance of the provisions contained herein and in the Indenture and waives reliance by such holder upon said provisions.
This Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been signed by or on behalf of the Trustee. The provisions of this Security are continued on the reverse side hereof, and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be signed in accordance with Section 2.04 of the Indenture.
Date: [            ]
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
For value received, each of Covidien plc and Covidien Ltd. hereby jointly and severally, absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the holder of this Security the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, the Security upon which this Guarantee is set forth in the amounts and at the time when due and payable whether by declaration thereof, or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal and interest, if any, of such Security, if lawful, to the holder of such Security and the Trustee on behalf of the Holders, all in accordance with and subject to the terms and limitations of such Security and Article XV of the Indenture. This Guarantee will not become effective until the Trustee or Authenticating Agent duly executes the certificate of authentication on this Security. This Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflict of law principles thereof.
Dated: [            ]
 
 
This security is one of a duly authorized series of debt securities of Covidien International Finance S.A., a Luxembourg company (the "Company"), issued or to be issued in one or more series under and pursuant to an Indenture for the Company's unsubordinated debt securities, dated as of October 22, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), duly executed and delivered by and among the Company, Covidien Ltd. ("Parent") and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 22, 2007 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture"), by and among the Company, Parent and the Trustee, and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 4, 2009 (the "Fifth Supplemental Indenture"), by and among the Company, Parent, Covidien plc ("Holdco") and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the "Indenture." By the terms of the Base Indenture, the debt securities issuable thereunder are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This security is one of the series designated on the face hereof (individually, a "Security," and collectively, the "Securities"), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee, the Company, Parent, Holdco and the holders of the Securities (the "Securityholders"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the Base Indenture or the Second Supplemental Indenture, as applicable, in each case as amended by the Fifth Supplemental Indenture.
1. . The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Security at an annual rate of 5.450%. The Company will pay interest semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year (each such day, an "Interest Payment Date"). If any Interest Payment Date, redemption date or maturity date of this Security is not a Business Day, then payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the date such payment was due, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such date to the date of such payment on the next succeeding Business Day. Interest on the Securities will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that, if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Security is authenticated between a regular record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; and provided, further, that the first Interest Payment Date shall be April 15, 2008. Interest will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In certain circumstances, liquidated damages may be payable as provided in Section 6.01 of the Indenture. Any such liquidated damages shall be payable in the same manner and on the same dates as the stated interest payable on this Security.
Interest
The Holder of this Security is entitled to the benefits of the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement. Pursuant to the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed (i) to file the Exchange Registration Statement (as defined in the Exchange and
 
Registration Rights Agreement) as soon as practicable, but no later than 210 days after the Closing Date (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement), (ii) to use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Exchange Registration Statement to become effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable, but no later than 300 days after the Closing Date, and (iii) to use its commercially reasonable efforts to commence and complete the Exchange Offer (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) promptly, but no later than 45 days after such registration statement has become effective, hold the Exchange Offer open for at least 30 days and exchange Exchange Securities (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) for all Registrable Securities (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) that have been properly tendered and not withdrawn on or prior to the expiration of the Exchange Offer. If (i) on or prior to the time the Exchange Offer is completed existing SEC interpretations are changed such that debt securities or the related guarantee received by holders other than Restricted Holders (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) in the Exchange Offer for Registrable Securities (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) are not or would not be, upon receipt, transferable by each such holder without restriction under the Securities Act, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not completed within 345 days after the Closing Date or (iii) the Exchange Offer is not available to any Holder, then, in each case, the Company is required to (a) as soon as practicable but no later than 60 days after the time such obligation to file arises, file a Shelf Registration Statement (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) and (b) use its commercially reasonable best efforts to cause the Shelf Registration Statement to become or be declared effective within 120 days after such Shelf Registration Statement is filed and to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the earlier of two years after the date as of which the Shelf Registration Statement became or was declared effective or such time as there are no longer any Registrable Securities outstanding. If (i) the Company fails to file the Exchange Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement on or before the date specified for such filing, (ii) any of the Exchange Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement is not declared effective by the date specified for such effectiveness, (iii) the Company fails to complete the Exchange Offer within 45 after the effectiveness target date with respect to the Exchange Registration Statement, (iv) any of the Exchange Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective but thereafter is withdrawn or ceases to be effective due to a stop order issued pursuant to the Securities Act suspending the effectiveness of such registration statement without being succeeded by an additional registration statement filed and declared effective or (v) the Company requires Holders to refrain from disposing of their Registrable Securities under certain circumstances described in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement and that suspension period exceeds 45 days in any one instance or 90 days in the aggregate during any consecutive 12 month period (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (v), a "Registration Default" and each period during which a Registration Default has occurred and is continuing, a "Registration Default Period"), then, as liquidated damages for such Registration Default, subject to certain exceptions, special interest ("Special Interest") shall accrue at a per annum rate of 0.25% for the first 90 days of the Registration Default Period and at a per annum rate of 0.50% thereafter for the remaining portion of the Registration Default Period.
2. . The Company will pay interest on the Securities (except defaulted interest), if any, to the persons in whose name such Securities are registered at the close of business on the regular record date referred to on the facing page of this Security for
Method of Payment
 
such interest installment. In the event that the Securities or a portion thereof are called for redemption and the Redemption Date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Securities will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Securities as provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on the Securities shall be payable in the coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time is legal tender for public and private debt, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the Indenture.
3. . Initially, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, the Trustee, will act as paying agent and Security Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any paying agent or Security Registrar without notice to any Securityholder. Holdco, Parent, the Company or any of their Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
4. . The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ("TIA") as in effect on the date the Indenture is qualified. The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Securityholders are referred to the Indenture and TIA for a statement of such terms. The Securities are unsecured general obligations of the Company and constitute the series designated on the face hereof as the "5.450% Senior Notes due 2012", initially limited to $500,000,000 in aggregate principal amount. The Company will furnish to any Securityholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to: Covidien International Finance S.A., 4th Floor, 3b bd Prince Henri, L-1724 Luxembourg, Attention: The Managing Directors.
Indenture
5. . The Securities will be subject to redemption at the option of the Company on any date prior to the maturity date, in whole or from time to time in part, in $1,000 increments ( that any remaining principal amount thereof shall be at least the minimum authorized denomination thereof), on written notice given to the Securityholders thereof not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days prior to the date fixed for redemption in such notice (the "Redemption Date"), at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Securities to be redeemed and (ii) as determined by the Quotation Agent and delivered to the Trustee, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon due on any date after the Redemption Date (excluding the portion of interest that will be accrued and unpaid to and including the Redemption Date) discounted from their scheduled date of payment to the Redemption Date (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Redemption Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points (such greater amount is referred to herein as the "Redemption Price"), plus, in either the case of clause (i) or clause (ii), accrued and unpaid interest and Special Interest, if any, thereon to the Redemption Date. This Security is also subject to redemption to the extent provided in Article XIV of the Indenture.
Optional Redemption
provided
If the giving of the notice of redemption is completed as provided in the Indenture, interest on such Securities or portions of Securities shall cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date, unless the Company shall default in the payment of such Redemption Price and accrued interest with respect to any such Security or portion thereof.
 
The Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Securities.
6. . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem this Security, the holder of this Security will have the right to require that the Company purchase all or a portion, in $1,000 increments ( that any remaining principal amount thereof shall be at least the minimum authorized denomination thereof), of this Security at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount hereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase. Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of the Change of Control, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer.
Change of Control Triggering Event
provided
7. . The Securities are in registered form without coupons in the denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Securities may be registered and Securities may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Securities may be presented for exchange or for registration of transfer (duly endorsed or with the form of transfer endorsed thereon duly executed if so required by the Company or the Security Registrar) at the office of the Security Registrar or at the office of any transfer agent designated by the Company for such purpose. No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or exchange, but a Securityholder may be required to pay any applicable taxes or other governmental charges. If the Securities are to be redeemed, the Company will not be required to: (i) issue, register the transfer of, or exchange any Security during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of mailing of a notice of redemption of less than all of the outstanding Securities of the same series and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing; (ii) register the transfer of or exchange any Security of any series or portions thereof selected for redemption, in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any such Security being redeemed in part; nor (iii) register the transfer of or exchange a Security of any series between the applicable record date and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
8. . The registered Securityholder may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
9. . Any funds or Governmental Obligations deposited with any paying agent or the Trustee, or then held by Holdco, Parent or the Company, in trust for payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of a particular series that are not applied but remain unclaimed by the holders of such Securities for at least one year after the date upon which the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on such Securities shall have respectively become due and payable, shall be repaid to Holdco, Parent or the Company, as applicable, or (if then held by Holdco, Parent or the Company) shall be discharged from such trust. After return to the Company, Parent or Holdco, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company or Parent, as applicable, for payment as unsecured general creditors.
Repayment to Holdco, Parent or the Company
 
10. . The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company, Parent, Holdco and the Trustee, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities to enter into supplemental indentures for the purpose of adding, changing or eliminating any provisions to the Base Indenture or supplemental indenture or indentures or of modifying in any manner not covered elsewhere in the Base Indenture the rights of the holders of the Securities of such series; , , that no such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the holders of each Security then Outstanding and affected thereby, shall: (i) extend a fixed maturity of or any installment of principal of any Securities of any series or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the amount of principal of any original issue discount security that would be due and payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof; (ii) reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest of any Security of any series; (iii) reduce the premium payable upon the redemption of any Security; (iv) make any Security payable in Currency other than that stated in the Security; (v) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the fixed maturity thereof (or in the case or redemption, on or after the redemption date); or (vi) reduce the percentage of Securities, the holders of which are required to consent to any such supplemental indenture or indentures. The Base Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding securities of each series affected thereby, on behalf of all of the holders of the securities of such series, to waive any past Default under the Base Indenture, and its consequences, except a Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any security of such series or a Default in respect of a covenant or provision of the Base Indenture that cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holder of each Outstanding security of such affected series. Any such consent or waiver by the registered Securityholder shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders and owners of this Security and of any Security issued in exchange for this Security or in place hereof (whether by registration of transfer or otherwise), irrespective of whether or not any notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
Amendments, Supplements and Waivers
provided
however
11. . If an Event of Default with respect to the securities of a series issued pursuant to the Base Indenture occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company, Parent and Holdco (and to the Trustee if notice is given by such holders), may declare the unpaid principal of, premium, if any, and accrued interest, if any, due and payable immediately. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, if an Event of Default under the Indenture shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights or powers under the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the holders, unless such holders have offered the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding securities of a series issued pursuant to the Base Indenture will have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the securities of such series.
Defaults and Remedies
12. . The Trustee, subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, or any paying agent or Security Registrar, in
Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar May Hold Securities
 
its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, paying agent or Security Registrar.
13. . No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect hereof or thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, past, present or future as such, of Holdco, Parent or the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, either directly or through Holdco, Parent or the Company or any such predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that the Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder and thereunder are solely corporate obligations, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators, shareholders, officers or directors as such, of Holdco, Parent or the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, or any of them, because of the creation of the indebtedness authorized by the Indenture, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in the Securities or implied therefrom; and that any and all such personal liability of every name and nature, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, of, and any and all such rights and claims against, every such incorporator, shareholder, officer or director as such, because of the creation of the indebtedness authorized by the Indenture, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in the Securities or implied therefrom, are hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the acceptance of the Securities.
No Recourse Against Others
14. . The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
Discharge of Indenture
15. . This Security shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication attached to the other side of this Security.
Authentication
16. . All payments by the Company under the Indenture and this Security are jointly and severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed to the holder of this Security by Holdco and Parent, as provided in the related Guarantee and the Indenture.
Guarantees
17. . The Company, Parent and Holdco are obligated to pay Additional Amounts on this Security to the extent provided in Article XIV of the Indenture.
Additional Amounts
18. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
19. . The Base Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture and this Security (and the Guarantee hereon) shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of said State.
Governing Law
 
To assign this Security, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Security to
 
 
 
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.3(3) of the Second Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
  1.3(3) Change of Control Triggering Event
If you want to elect to have only part of this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.3(3) of the Second Supplemental Indenture, state the amount: $            .
 
 
 
 
promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of [            ] Dollars on October 15, 2017.
Interest Payment Dates: April 15 and October 15
Record Dates: April 1 and October 1
Each holder of this Security (as defined below), by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and of the Indenture described herein, and authorizes and directs the Trustee described herein on such holder's behalf to be bound by such provisions. Each holder of this Security hereby waives all notice of the acceptance of the provisions contained herein and in the Indenture and waives reliance by such holder upon said provisions.
This Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been signed by or on behalf of the Trustee. The provisions of this Security are continued on the reverse side hereof, and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be signed in accordance with Section 2.04 of the Indenture.
Date: [            ]
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
For value received, each of Covidien plc and Covidien Ltd. hereby jointly and severally, absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the holder of this Security the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, the Security upon which this Guarantee is set forth in the amounts and at the time when due and payable whether by declaration thereof, or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal and interest, if any, of such Security, if lawful, to the holder of such Security and the Trustee on behalf of the Holders, all in accordance with and subject to the terms and limitations of such Security and Article XV of the Indenture. This Guarantee will not become effective until the Trustee or Authenticating Agent duly executes the certificate of authentication on this Security. This Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflict of law principles thereof.
Dated: [            ]
 
 
Covidien International Finance S.A.
This security is one of a duly authorized series of debt securities of Covidien International Finance S.A., a Luxembourg company (the "Company"), issued or to be issued in one or more series under and pursuant to an Indenture for the Company's unsubordinated debt securities, dated as of October 22, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), duly executed and delivered by and among the Company, Covidien Ltd. ("Parent") and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 22, 2007 (the "Third Supplemental Indenture"), by and among the Company, Parent and the Trustee, and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 4, 2009, by and among the Company, Parent, Covidien plc ("Holdco") and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by the Third Supplemental Indenture and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the "Indenture." By the terms of the Base Indenture, the debt securities issuable thereunder are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This security is one of the series designated on the face hereof (individually, a "Security," and collectively, the "Securities"), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee, the Company, Parent, Holdco and the holders of the Securities (the "Securityholders"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the Base Indenture or the Third Supplemental Indenture, as applicable, in each case as amended by the Fifth Supplemental Indenture.
1. . The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Security at an annual rate of 6.000%. The Company will pay interest semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year (each such day, an "Interest Payment Date"). If any Interest Payment Date, redemption date or maturity date of this Security is not a Business Day, then payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the date such payment was due, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such date to the date of such payment on the next succeeding Business Day. Interest on the Securities will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that, if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Security is authenticated between a regular record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; and provided, further, that the first Interest Payment Date shall be April 15, 2008. Interest will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In certain circumstances, liquidated damages may be payable as provided in Section 6.01 of the Indenture. Any such liquidated damages shall be payable in the same manner and on the same dates as the stated interest payable on this Security.
Interest
The Holder of this Security is entitled to the benefits of the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement. Pursuant to the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed (i) to file the Exchange Registration Statement (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) as soon as practicable, but no later than 210 days after the Closing Date (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement), (ii) to use its
 
commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Exchange Registration Statement to become effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable, but no later than 300 days after the Closing Date, and (iii) to use its commercially reasonable efforts to commence and complete the Exchange Offer (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) promptly, but no later than 45 days after such registration statement has become effective, hold the Exchange Offer open for at least 30 days and exchange Exchange Securities (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) for all Registrable Securities (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) that have been properly tendered and not withdrawn on or prior to the expiration of the Exchange Offer. If (i) on or prior to the time the Exchange Offer is completed existing SEC interpretations are changed such that debt securities or the related guarantee received by holders other than Restricted Holders (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) in the Exchange Offer for Registrable Securities (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) are not or would not be, upon receipt, transferable by each such holder without restriction under the Securities Act, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not completed within 345 days after the Closing Date or (iii) the Exchange Offer is not available to any Holder, then, in each case, the Company is required to (a) as soon as practicable but no later than 60 days after the time such obligation to file arises, file a Shelf Registration Statement (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) and (b) use its commercially reasonable best efforts to cause the Shelf Registration Statement to become or be declared effective within 120 days after such Shelf Registration Statement is filed and to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the earlier of two years after the date as of which the Shelf Registration Statement became or was declared effective or such time as there are no longer any Registrable Securities outstanding. If (i) the Company fails to file the Exchange Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement on or before the date specified for such filing, (ii) any of the Exchange Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement is not declared effective by the date specified for such effectiveness, (iii) the Company fails to complete the Exchange Offer within 45 after the effectiveness target date with respect to the Exchange Registration Statement, (iv) any of the Exchange Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective but thereafter is withdrawn or ceases to be effective due to a stop order issued pursuant to the Securities Act suspending the effectiveness of such registration statement without being succeeded by an additional registration statement filed and declared effective or (v) the Company requires Holders to refrain from disposing of their Registrable Securities under certain circumstances described in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement and that suspension period exceeds 45 days in any one instance or 90 days in the aggregate during any consecutive 12 month period (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (v), a "Registration Default" and each period during which a Registration Default has occurred and is continuing, a "Registration Default Period"), then, as liquidated damages for such Registration Default, subject to certain exceptions, special interest ("Special Interest") shall accrue at a per annum rate of 0.25% for the first 90 days of the Registration Default Period and at a per annum rate of 0.50% thereafter for the remaining portion of the Registration Default Period.
2. . The Company will pay interest on the Securities (except defaulted interest), if any, to the persons in whose name such Securities are registered at the close of business on the regular record date referred to on the facing page of this Security for such interest installment. In the event that the Securities or a portion thereof are called for redemption and the Redemption Date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any
Method of Payment
 
Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Securities will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Securities as provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on the Securities shall be payable in the coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time is legal tender for public and private debt, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the Indenture.
3. . Initially, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, the Trustee, will act as paying agent and Security Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any paying agent or Security Registrar without notice to any Securityholder. Holdco, Parent, the Company or any of their Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
4. . The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ("TIA") as in effect on the date the Indenture is qualified. The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Securityholders are referred to the Indenture and TIA for a statement of such terms. The Securities are unsecured general obligations of the Company and constitute the series designated on the face hereof as the "6.000% Senior Notes due 2017", initially limited to $1,150,000,000 in aggregate principal amount. The Company will furnish to any Securityholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to: Covidien International Finance S.A., 4th Floor, 3b bd Prince Henri, L-1724 Luxembourg, Attention: The Managing Directors.
Indenture
5. . The Securities will be subject to redemption at the option of the Company on any date prior to the maturity date, in whole or from time to time in part, in $1,000 increments ( that any remaining principal amount thereof shall be at least the minimum authorized denomination thereof), on written notice given to the Securityholders thereof not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days prior to the date fixed for redemption in such notice (the "Redemption Date"), at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Securities to be redeemed and (ii) as determined by the Quotation Agent and delivered to the Trustee, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon due on any date after the Redemption Date (excluding the portion of interest that will be accrued and unpaid to and including the Redemption Date) discounted from their scheduled date of payment to the Redemption Date (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Redemption Treasury Rate plus 25 basis points (such greater amount is referred to herein as the "Redemption Price"), plus, in either the case of clause (i) or clause (ii), accrued and unpaid interest and Special Interest, if any, thereon to the Redemption Date. This Security is also subject to redemption to the extent provided in Article XIV of the Indenture.
Optional Redemption
provided
If the giving of the notice of redemption is completed as provided in the Indenture, interest on such Securities or portions of Securities shall cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date, unless the Company shall default in the payment of such Redemption Price and accrued interest with respect to any such Security or portion thereof.
The Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Securities.
 
6. . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem this Security, the holder of this Security will have the right to require that the Company purchase all or a portion, in $1,000 increments ( that any remaining principal amount thereof shall be at least the minimum authorized denomination thereof), of this Security at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount hereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase. Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of the Change of Control, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer.
Change of Control Triggering Event
provided
7. . The Securities are in registered form without coupons in the denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Securities may be registered and Securities may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Securities may be presented for exchange or for registration of transfer (duly endorsed or with the form of transfer endorsed thereon duly executed if so required by the Company or the Security Registrar) at the office of the Security Registrar or at the office of any transfer agent designated by the Company for such purpose. No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or exchange, but a Securityholder may be required to pay any applicable taxes or other governmental charges. If the Securities are to be redeemed, the Company will not be required to: (i) issue, register the transfer of, or exchange any Security during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of mailing of a notice of redemption of less than all of the outstanding Securities of the same series and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing; (ii) register the transfer of or exchange any Security of any series or portions thereof selected for redemption, in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any such Security being redeemed in part; nor (iii) register the transfer of or exchange a Security of any series between the applicable record date and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
8. . The registered Securityholder may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
9. . Any funds or Governmental Obligations deposited with any paying agent or the Trustee, or then held by Holdco, Parent or the Company, in trust for payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of a particular series that are not applied but remain unclaimed by the holders of such Securities for at least one year after the date upon which the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on such Securities shall have respectively become due and payable, shall be repaid to Holdco, Parent or the Company, as applicable, or (if then held by Holdco, Parent or the Company) shall be discharged from such trust. After return to the Company, Parent or Holdco, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company, Parent or Holdco, as applicable, for payment as unsecured general creditors.
Repayment to Holdco, Parent or the Company
10. . The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company, Parent, Holdco and the Trustee, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities to enter into supplemental indentures for the purpose of adding, changing or eliminating any provisions to the
Amendments, Supplements and Waivers
 
Base Indenture or supplemental indenture or indentures or of modifying in any manner not covered elsewhere in the Base Indenture the rights of the holders of the Securities of such series; , , that no such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the holders of each Security then Outstanding and affected thereby, shall: (i) extend a fixed maturity of or any installment of principal of any Securities of any series or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the amount of principal of any original issue discount security that would be due and payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof; (ii) reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest of any Security of any series; (iii) reduce the premium payable upon the redemption of any Security; (iv) make any Security payable in Currency other than that stated in the Security; (v) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the fixed maturity thereof (or in the case or redemption, on or after the redemption date); or (vi) reduce the percentage of Securities, the holders of which are required to consent to any such supplemental indenture or indentures. The Base Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding securities of each series affected thereby, on behalf of all of the holders of the securities of such series, to waive any past Default under the Base Indenture, and its consequences, except a Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any security of such series or a Default in respect of a covenant or provision of the Base Indenture that cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holder of each Outstanding security of such affected series. Any such consent or waiver by the registered Securityholder shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders and owners of this Security and of any Security issued in exchange for this Security or in place hereof (whether by registration of transfer or otherwise), irrespective of whether or not any notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
provided
however
11. . If an Event of Default with respect to the securities of a series issued pursuant to the Base Indenture occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company, Parent and Holdco (and to the Trustee if notice is given by such holders), may declare the unpaid principal of, premium, if any, and accrued interest, if any, due and payable immediately. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, if an Event of Default under the Indenture shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights or powers under the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the holders, unless such holders have offered the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding securities of a series issued pursuant to the Base Indenture will have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the securities of such series.
Defaults and Remedies
12. . The Trustee, subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, or any paying agent or Security Registrar, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, paying agent or Security Registrar.
Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar May Hold Securities
13. . No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in
No Recourse Against Others
 
respect hereof or thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, past, present or future as such, of Holdco, Parent or the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, either directly or through Holdco, Parent or the Company or any such predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that the Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder and thereunder are solely corporate obligations, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators, shareholders, officers or directors as such, of Holdco, Parent or the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, or any of them, because of the creation of the indebtedness authorized by the Indenture, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in the Securities or implied therefrom; and that any and all such personal liability of every name and nature, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, of, and any and all such rights and claims against, every such incorporator, shareholder, officer or director as such, because of the creation of the indebtedness authorized by the Indenture, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in the Securities or implied therefrom, are hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the acceptance of the Securities.
14. . The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
Discharge of Indenture
15. . This Security shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication attached to the other side of this Security.
Authentication
16. . All payments by the Company under the Indenture and this Security are jointly and severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed to the holder of this Security by Holdco and Parent, as provided in the related Guarantee and the Indenture.
Guarantees
17. . The Company, Parent and Holdco are obligated to pay Additional Amounts on this Security to the extent provided in Article XIV of the Indenture.
Additional Amounts
18. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
19. . The Base Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture and this Security (and the Guarantee hereon) shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of said State.
Governing Law
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.3(3) of the Third Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
  1.3(3) Change of Control Triggering Event
If you want to elect to have only part of this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.3(3) of the Third Supplemental Indenture, state the amount: $            .
 
 
 
 
promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of [            ] Dollars on October 15, 2037.
Interest Payment Dates: April 15 and October 15
Record Dates: April 1 and October 1]
Each holder of this Security (as defined below), by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and of the Indenture described herein, and authorizes and directs the Trustee described herein on such holder's behalf to be bound by such provisions. Each holder of this Security hereby waives all notice of the acceptance of the provisions contained herein and in the Indenture and waives reliance by such holder upon said provisions.
This Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate of Authentication hereon shall have been signed by or on behalf of the Trustee. The provisions of this Security are continued on the reverse side hereof, and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be signed in accordance with Section 2.04 of the Indenture.
Date: [            ]
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
For value received, each of Covidien plc and Covidien Ltd. hereby jointly and severally, absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the holder of this Security the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, the Security upon which this Guarantee is set forth in the amounts and at the time when due and payable whether by declaration thereof, or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal and interest, if any, of such Security, if lawful, to the holder of such Security and the Trustee on behalf of the Holders, all in accordance with and subject to the terms and limitations of such Security and Article XV of the Indenture. This Guarantee will not become effective until the Trustee or Authenticating Agent duly executes the certificate of authentication on this Security. This Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflict of law principles thereof.
Dated: [            ]
 
 
This security is one of a duly authorized series of debt securities of Covidien International Finance S.A., a Luxembourg company (the "Company"), issued or to be issued in one or more series under and pursuant to an Indenture for the Company's unsubordinated debt securities, dated as of October 22, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), duly executed and delivered by and among the Company, Covidien Ltd. ("Parent") and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 22, 2007 (the "Fourth Supplemental Indenture"), by and among the Company, Parent and the Trustee, and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 4, 2009 (the "Fifth Supplemental Indenture"), by and among the Company, Parent, Covidien plc ("Holdco") and the Trustee. The Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture is referred to herein as the "Indenture." By the terms of the Base Indenture, the debt securities issuable thereunder are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base Indenture. This security is one of the series designated on the face hereof (individually, a "Security," and collectively, the "Securities"), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee, the Company, Parent, Holdco and the holders of the Securities (the "Securityholders"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given them in the Base Indenture or the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, as applicable, in each case as amended by the Fifth Supplemental Indenture.
1. . The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Security at an annual rate of 6.550%. The Company will pay interest semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year (each such day, an "Interest Payment Date"). If any Interest Payment Date, redemption date or maturity date of this Security is not a Business Day, then payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the date such payment was due, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such date to the date of such payment on the next succeeding Business Day. Interest on the Securities will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that, if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Security is authenticated between a regular record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; and provided, further, that the first Interest Payment Date shall be April 15, 2008. Interest will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. In certain circumstances, liquidated damages may be payable as provided in Section 6.01 of the Indenture. Any such liquidated damages shall be payable in the same manner and on the same dates as the stated interest payable on this Security.
Interest
The Holder of this Security is entitled to the benefits of the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement. Pursuant to the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed (i) to file the Exchange Registration Statement (as defined in the Exchange and
 
Registration Rights Agreement) as soon as practicable, but no later than 210 days after the Closing Date (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement), (ii) to use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Exchange Registration Statement to become effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable, but no later than 300 days after the Closing Date, and (iii) to use its commercially reasonable efforts to commence and complete the Exchange Offer (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) promptly, but no later than 45 days after such registration statement has become effective, hold the Exchange Offer open for at least 30 days and exchange Exchange Securities (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) for all Registrable Securities (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) that have been properly tendered and not withdrawn on or prior to the expiration of the Exchange Offer. If (i) on or prior to the time the Exchange Offer is completed existing SEC interpretations are changed such that debt securities or the related guarantee received by holders other than Restricted Holders (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) in the Exchange Offer for Registrable Securities (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) are not or would not be, upon receipt, transferable by each such holder without restriction under the Securities Act, (ii) the Exchange Offer is not completed within 345 days after the Closing Date or (iii) the Exchange Offer is not available to any Holder, then, in each case, the Company is required to (a) as soon as practicable but no later than 60 days after the time such obligation to file arises, file a Shelf Registration Statement (as defined in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement) and (b) use its commercially reasonable best efforts to cause the Shelf Registration Statement to become or be declared effective within 120 days after such Shelf Registration Statement is filed and to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the earlier of two years after the date as of which the Shelf Registration Statement became or was declared effective or such time as there are no longer any Registrable Securities outstanding. If (i) the Company fails to file the Exchange Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement on or before the date specified for such filing, (ii) any of the Exchange Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement is not declared effective by the date specified for such effectiveness, (iii) the Company fails to complete the Exchange Offer within 45 after the effectiveness target date with respect to the Exchange Registration Statement, (iv) any of the Exchange Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective but thereafter is withdrawn or ceases to be effective due to a stop order issued pursuant to the Securities Act suspending the effectiveness of such registration statement without being succeeded by an additional registration statement filed and declared effective or (v) the Company requires Holders to refrain from disposing of their Registrable Securities under certain circumstances described in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement and that suspension period exceeds 45 days in any one instance or 90 days in the aggregate during any consecutive 12 month period (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (v), a "Registration Default" and each period during which a Registration Default has occurred and is continuing, a "Registration Default Period"), then, as liquidated damages for such Registration Default, subject to certain exceptions, special interest ("Special Interest") shall accrue at a per annum rate of 0.25% for the first 90 days of the Registration Default Period and at a per annum rate of 0.50% thereafter for the remaining portion of the Registration Default Period.
2. . The Company will pay interest on the Securities (except defaulted interest), if any, to the persons in whose name such Securities are registered at the close of business on the regular record date referred to on the facing page of this Security for
Method of Payment
 
such interest installment. In the event that the Securities or a portion thereof are called for redemption and the Redemption Date is subsequent to a regular record date with respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date, interest on such Securities will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such Securities as provided in the Indenture. The principal of and the interest on the Securities shall be payable in the coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time is legal tender for public and private debt, at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in accordance with the Indenture.
3. . Initially, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, the Trustee, will act as paying agent and Security Registrar. The Company may change or appoint any paying agent or Security Registrar without notice to any Securityholder. Holdco, Parent, the Company or any of their Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
4. . The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ("TIA") as in effect on the date the Indenture is qualified. The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Securityholders are referred to the Indenture and TIA for a statement of such terms. The Securities are unsecured general obligations of the Company and constitute the series designated on the face hereof as the "6.550% Senior Notes due 2037", initially limited to $850,000,000 in aggregate principal amount. The Company will furnish to any Securityholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to: Covidien International Finance S.A., 4th Floor, 3b bd Prince Henri,L-1724 Luxembourg, Attention: The Managing Directors.
Indenture
5. . The Securities will be subject to redemption at the option of the Company on any date prior to the maturity date, in whole or from time to time in part, in $1,000 increments ( that any remaining principal amount thereof shall be at least the minimum authorized denomination thereof), on written notice given to the Securityholders thereof not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days prior to the date fixed for redemption in such notice (the "Redemption Date"), at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Securities to be redeemed and (ii) as determined by the Quotation Agent and delivered to the Trustee, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon due on any date after the Redemption Date (excluding the portion of interest that will be accrued and unpaid to and including the Redemption Date) discounted from their scheduled date of payment to the Redemption Date (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Redemption Treasury Rate plus 30 basis points (such greater amount is referred to herein as the "Redemption Price"), plus, in either the case of clause (i) or clause (ii), accrued and unpaid interest and Special Interest, if any, thereon to the Redemption Date. This Security is also subject to redemption to the extent provided in Article XIV of the Indenture.
Optional Redemption
provided
If the giving of the notice of redemption is completed as provided in the Indenture, interest on such Securities or portions of Securities shall cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date, unless the Company shall default in the payment of such Redemption Price and accrued interest with respect to any such Security or portion thereof.
 
The Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Securities.
6. . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem this Security, the holder of this Security will have the right to require that the Company purchase all or a portion, in $1,000 increments ( that any remaining principal amount thereof shall be at least the minimum authorized denomination thereof), of this Security at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount hereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase. Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of the Change of Control, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer.
Change of Control Triggering Event
provided
7. . The Securities are in registered form without coupons in the denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Securities may be registered and Securities may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Securities may be presented for exchange or for registration of transfer (duly endorsed or with the form of transfer endorsed thereon duly executed if so required by the Company or the Security Registrar) at the office of the Security Registrar or at the office of any transfer agent designated by the Company for such purpose. No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or exchange, but a Securityholder may be required to pay any applicable taxes or other governmental charges. If the Securities are to be redeemed, the Company will not be required to: (i) issue, register the transfer of, or exchange any Security during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of mailing of a notice of redemption of less than all of the outstanding Securities of the same series and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing; (ii) register the transfer of or exchange any Security of any series or portions thereof selected for redemption, in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any such Security being redeemed in part; nor (iii) register the transfer of or exchange a Security of any series between the applicable record date and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
8. . The registered Securityholder may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
9. . Any funds or Governmental Obligations deposited with any paying agent or the Trustee, or then held by Holdco, Parent or the Company, in trust for payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of a particular series that are not applied but remain unclaimed by the holders of such Securities for at least one year after the date upon which the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on such Securities shall have respectively become due and payable, shall be repaid to Holdco, Parent or the Company, as applicable, or (if then held by Holdco, Parent or the Company) shall be discharged from such trust. After return to the Company, Parent or Holdco, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company, Parent or Holdco, as applicable, for payment as unsecured general creditors.
Repayment to Holdco, Parent or the Company
 
10. . The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company, Parent, Holdco and the Trustee, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities to enter into supplemental indentures for the purpose of adding, changing or eliminating any provisions to the Base Indenture or supplemental indenture or indentures or of modifying in any manner not covered elsewhere in the Base Indenture the rights of the holders of the Securities of such series; , , that no such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the holders of each Security then Outstanding and affected thereby, shall: (i) extend a fixed maturity of or any installment of principal of any Securities of any series or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the amount of principal of any original issue discount security that would be due and payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof; (ii) reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest of any Security of any series; (iii) reduce the premium payable upon the redemption of any Security; (iv) make any Security payable in Currency other than that stated in the Security; (v) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the fixed maturity thereof (or in the case or redemption, on or after the redemption date); or (vi) reduce the percentage of Securities, the holders of which are required to consent to any such supplemental indenture or indentures. The Base Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding securities of each series affected thereby, on behalf of all of the holders of the securities of such series, to waive any past Default under the Base Indenture, and its consequences, except a Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any security of such series or a Default in respect of a covenant or provision of the Base Indenture that cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holder of each Outstanding security of such affected series. Any such consent or waiver by the registered Securityholder shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders and owners of this Security and of any Security issued in exchange for this Security or in place hereof (whether by registration of transfer or otherwise), irrespective of whether or not any notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
Amendments, Supplements and Waivers
provided
however
11. . If an Event of Default with respect to the securities of a series issued pursuant to the Base Indenture occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company, Parent and Holdco (and to the Trustee if notice is given by such holders), may declare the unpaid principal of, premium, if any, and accrued interest, if any, due and payable immediately. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, if an Event of Default under the Indenture shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights or powers under the Indenture at the request or direction of any of the holders, unless such holders have offered the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding securities of a series issued pursuant to the Base Indenture will have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the securities of such series.
Defaults and Remedies
12. . The Trustee, subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, or any paying agent or Security Registrar, in
Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar May Hold Securities
 
its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, paying agent or Security Registrar.
13. . No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect hereof or thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, past, present or future as such, of Holdco, Parent or the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, either directly or through Holdco, Parent or the Company or any such predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that the Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder and thereunder are solely corporate obligations, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators, shareholders, officers or directors as such, of Holdco, Parent or the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, or any of them, because of the creation of the indebtedness authorized by the Indenture, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in the Securities or implied therefrom; and that any and all such personal liability of every name and nature, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, of, and any and all such rights and claims against, every such incorporator, shareholder, officer or director as such, because of the creation of the indebtedness authorized by the Indenture, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or in the Securities or implied therefrom, are hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the acceptance of the Securities.
No Recourse Against Others
14. . The Indenture contains certain provisions pertaining to defeasance, which provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth herein.
Discharge of Indenture
15. . This Security shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication attached to the other side of this Security.
Authentication
16. . All payments by the Company under the Indenture and this Security are jointly and severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed to the holder of this Security by Holdco and Parent, as provided in the related Guarantee and the Indenture.
Guarantees
17. . The Company, Parent and Holdco are obligated to pay Additional Amounts on this Security to the extent provided in Article XIV of the Indenture.
Additional Amounts
18. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
19. . The Base Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture and this Security (and the Guarantee hereon) shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of said State.
Governing Law
 
To assign this Security, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Security to
 
 
 
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.3(3) of the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
  1.3(3) Change of Control Triggering Event
If you want to elect to have only part of this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 1.3(3) of the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, state the amount: $            .
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
1.1 The purposes of this Covidien 2007 Stock and Incentive Plan as amended and restated and as assumed by Covidien public limited company (the "Plan") are to promote the interests of Covidien public limited company (and any successor thereto) by (i) aiding in the recruitment and retention of Directors and Employees, (ii) providing incentives to Directors and Employees by means of performance-related incentives to achieve short-term and long-term performance goals, (iii) providing Directors and Employees with an opportunity to participate in the growth and financial success of the Company, and (iv) promoting the growth and success of the Company's business by aligning the financial interests of Directors and Employees with that of the other shareholders of the Company. Toward these objectives, the Plan provides for the grant of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Annual Performance Bonuses, Long-Term Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards.
Purpose.
1.2 The Plan was amended and restated, effective as of November 21, 2008, and such amendment and restatement was approved by the shareholders of Covidien Ltd. at its 2009 annual general meeting held on March 18, 2009. The Plan was amended and restated, effective as of June 4, 2009, to reflect its assumption by Covidien public limited company.
Effective Date; Shareholder Approval.
For purposes of the Plan, the following terms have the following meanings, unless another definition is clearly indicated by particular usage and context:
" " means any business, corporation or other entity acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary.
Acquired Company
" " means the grantee of a stock-based award of an Acquired Company and may include a current or former Director of an Acquired Company.
Acquired Grantee
" " means an Award of cash or Shares granted under Section 4.4 of the Plan that is paid solely on account of the attainment of a specified performance target in relation to one or more Performance Measures.
Annual Performance Bonus
" " means any form of incentive or performance award granted under the Plan, whether singly or in combination, to a Participant by the Committee pursuant to any terms and conditions that the Committee may establish and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate. Awards granted under the Plan may consist of:
Award
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
" " means the document issued, either in writing or an electronic medium, by the Committee or its designee to a Participant evidencing the grant of an Award and which contains, in the same or accompanying document, the terms and conditions applicable to such Award.
Award Certificate
" " means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
" " means an Employee's or Director's (i) substantial failure or refusal to perform duties and responsibilities of his or her job as required by the Company or Subsidiary, (ii) violation of any fiduciary duty owed to the Company or Subsidiary, (iii) conviction of a felony or misdemeanor, (iv) dishonesty, (v) theft, (vi) violation of Company or Subsidiary rules or policy, or (vii) other egregious conduct, that has or could have a serious and detrimental impact on the Company or Subsidiary and its employees. The Committee (or the Nominating Committee solely with respect to Director Awards), in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine Cause.
Cause
" " means the first to occur of any of the following events:
Change in Control
(a) any "person" (as defined in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, excluding for this purpose, (i) the Company or any Subsidiary or (ii) any employee benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary (or any person or entity organized, appointed or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan that acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) directly or indirectly of securities of the Company representing more than 30 percent of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; provided, however, that no Change in Control will be deemed to have occurred as a result of a change in ownership percentage resulting solely from an acquisition of securities by the Company; or
(b) persons who, as of the Effective Date constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason (including without limitation, as a result of a tender offer, proxy contest, merger or similar transaction) to constitute at least a majority thereof, provided that any person becoming a Director of the Company subsequent to the Effective Date shall be considered an Incumbent Director if such person's election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least 50 percent of the Incumbent Directors; but provided further, that any such person whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest relating to the election of members of the Board or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a "person" (as defined in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) other than the Board, including by reason of agreement intended to avoid or settle any such actual or threatened contest or solicitation, shall not be considered an Incumbent Director; or
(c) consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of at least 80 percent of the assets of the Company (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of outstanding voting securities of the Company immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, of the company resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a company which, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more Subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the outstanding voting securities of the Company; or
(d) approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
" " means a Participant's involuntary termination of employment that occurs during the twelve (12) month period immediately following a Change in Control. For this purpose, a Participant's involuntary termination of employment includes only the following:
Change in Control Termination
 
 
 
 
" " means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
" " means the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board or any successor committee or other committee to which the Compensation and Human Resources Committee delegates its authority under this Plan. The Compensation and Human Resources Committee is comprised solely of nonemployee directors within the meaning of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) of the Exchange Act and two or more persons who are outside directors within the meaning of Section 162(m)(4)(C)(i) of the Code and the applicable regulations.
Committee
" " means Covidien public limited company, a company incorporated in Ireland under registered number 466385, or any successor thereto.
Company
" " means a Unit granted under Section 4.6 or 4.7 to acquire Shares upon Termination of Directorship or Termination of Employment, subject to any restrictions that the Committee, in its discretion, may determine.
Deferred Stock Unit
" " means a member of the Board who is a "non-employee director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) under the Exchange Act.
Director
" " or " " means that the Employee has a permanent and total incapacity from engaging in any employment for the Company or Subsidiary for physical or mental reasons. A "Disability" shall be deemed to exist if the Employee is designated with an inactive employment status at the end of a disability or medical leave or if the Employee meets the requirements for disability benefits under (i) the Company's or Subsidiary's long-term disability plan or (ii) the Social Security law then in effect, for Employees who are on the payroll of any United States Subsidiary.
Disabled
Disability
" " means an amount equal to the cash dividend or the fair market value of the share dividend that would be paid on each Share underlying an Award if the Share were duly issued and outstanding on the date on which the dividend is payable.
Dividend Equivalent
" " means June 4, 2009, unless otherwise provided herein.
Effective Date
" " means any individual who performs services as an officer or employee of the Company or a Subsidiary.
Employee
 
" " means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
" " means the price of a Share, as fixed by the Committee, which may be purchased under a Stock Option or with respect to which the amount of any payment pursuant to a Stock Appreciation Right is determined.
Exercise Price
" " of a Share means the closing sales price on the New York Stock Exchange of a Share on the trading day of the grant or on the date as of which the determination of Fair Market Value is being made or, if no sale is reported for such day, on the next preceding day on which a sale of Shares is reported. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Fair Market Value of a Share will in no event be determined to be less than par value.
Fair Market Value
" " means United States generally accepted accounting principles.
GAAP
" " means a Stock Option granted under Section 4.3 of the Plan that meets the requirements of Section 422 of the Code and any related regulations and is designated in the Award Certificate to be an Incentive Stock Option.
Incentive Stock Option
" " means an Employee who is a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Code or who is reasonably expected to be a "covered employee" at the time an Award becomes payable.
Key Employee
" " means an Award granted under Section 4.5 of the Plan that is paid solely on account of the attainment of a specified performance target in relation to one or more Performance Measures or other performance criteria as selected in the sole discretion of the Committee.
Long-Term Performance Award
" " means the Nominating and Governance Committee the Board.
Nominating Committee
" " means any member of the Board, elected or appointed, who is not otherwise an Employee of the Company or a Subsidiary. An individual who is elected to the Board at an annual meeting of the shareholders of the Company will be deemed to be a member of the Board as of the date of such meeting.
Non-Employee Director
" " means any Stock Option granted under Section 4.3 of the Plan that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonqualified Stock Option
" " means Termination of Employment on or after a Participant has attained age 60, provided that the sum of the Participant's age and years of service with the Company or a Subsidiary is 70 or higher.
Normal Retirement
" " means the ordinary shares of the Company, $0.20 (U.S.) par value, and such other securities or property as may become subject to Awards pursuant to an adjustment made under Section 5.3 of the Plan.
Ordinary Shares
" " means an Award granted under Section 4.6 of the Plan and denominated in Shares.
Other Stock-Based Award
" " means a Director, Employee or Acquired Grantee who has been granted an Award under the Plan.
Participant
" " means, with respect to any Award that vests based on Performance Measures, the period of 12 months or longer over which the level of performance will be assessed. The first Performance Cycle under the Plan will begin on such date as is set by the Committee, in its sole discretion.
Performance Cycle
" " means, with respect to any Annual Performance Bonus or Long-Term Performance Award, the business criteria selected by the Committee to measure the level of performance of the Company during a Performance Cycle. The Committee may select as the Performance Measure any operating and maintenance expense targets or financial goals as interpreted by the Committee, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied to either the Company as a whole or to a business unit or Subsidiary, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and measured during the Performance Cycle including, but not limited to the following criteria: (a) cash flow, (b) earnings per share, (c) earnings before interest, taxes and amortization, (d) return on equity, (e) total shareholder return, (f) share price performance, (g) return on capital, (h) return on assets or net assets, (i) revenue, (j) income or net income, (k)
Performance Measure
 
operating income or net operating income, (l) operating profit or net operating profit, (m) operating margin or profit margin, (n) return on operating revenue, (o) return on invested capital, (p) market segment share, (q) product release schedules, (r) new product innovation, (s) product cost reduction through advanced technology, (t) brand recognition/acceptance, (u) product ship targets, or (v) customer satisfaction.
" " means a Long-Term Performance Award denominated in Units.
Performance Unit
" " means this Covidien 2007 Stock and Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective as of June 4, 2009 and as assumed by Covidien public limited company on June 4, 2009, as it may be amended from time to time.
Plan
" " means a Stock Option the Exercise Price of which is fixed by the Committee at a price that exceeds the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant.
Premium-Priced Stock Option
" " means a Director or an Employee who is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act.
Reporting Person
" " means Shares issued pursuant to Section 4.6 that are subject to any restrictions that the Committee, in its discretion, may impose.
Restricted Stock
" " means a Unit granted under Section 4.5 or Section 4.6 to acquire Shares or an equivalent amount in cash, which Unit is subject to any restrictions that the Committee, in its discretion, may impose.
Restricted Unit
" " means the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
" " means an Ordinary Share of the Company, and "" shall be construed accordingly.
Share
Shares
" " means a right granted under Section 4.3 of the Plan of an amount in cash or Shares equal to any difference between the Fair Market Value of the Shares as of the date on which the right is exercised and the Exercise Price.
Stock Appreciation Right
" " means a right granted under Section 4.3 of the Plan to purchase from the Company a stated number of Shares at a specified price. Stock Options awarded under the Plan may be in the form of Incentive Stock Options or Nonqualified Stock Options.
Stock Option
" " means (i) a subsidiary company (wherever incorporated) of the Company, as defined by Section 155 of the Companies Act 1963 of Ireland; (ii) any separately organized business unit, whether or not incorporated, of the Company; (iii) any employer that is required to be aggregated with the Company pursuant to Code Section 414 and the regulations promulgated thereunder; and (iv) any service recipient or employer that is within a controlled group of corporations as defined in Code Sections 1563(a)(1), (2) and (3) where the phrase "at least 50%" is substituted in each place "at least 80%" appears and any service recipient or employer within trades or businesses under common control as defined in Code Section 414(c) and Treas. Reg.  1.414(c)-2 where the phrase "at least 50%" is substituted in each place "at least 80%" appears, provided, however, that when the relevant determination is to be based upon legitimate business criteria (as described in Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(b)(5)(iii)(E) and  1.409A-1(h)(3)), the phrase "at least 20%" shall be substituted in each place "at least 80%" appears as described above with respect to both a controlled group of corporations and trades or business under common control.
Subsidiary
" " means the amount of Performance Units that will be paid if the Performance Measure is fully (100%) attained, as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee.
Target Amount
" " means the percentage of performance-based Restricted Units or Shares of Restricted Stock that will vest if the Performance Measure is fully (100%) attained, as determined in the sole discretion of by the Committee.
Target Vesting Percentage
" " means the date of cessation of a Director's membership on the Board for any reason, with or without Cause, as determined in the sole discretion of the Nominating Committee, provided however that if the Director is a member of the Nominating Committee, such determination shall be made by the
Termination of Directorship
 
full Board (excluding such Director).
" " means the date of cessation of an Employee's employment relationship with the Company or a Subsidiary for any reason, with or without Cause, as determined in the sole discretion of the Company.
Termination of Employment
" " means, for purposes of Performance Units, the potential right to an Award equal to a specified amount denominated in such form as is deemed appropriate in the discretion of the Committee and, for purposes of Restricted Units or Deferred Stock Units, the potential right to acquire one Share.
Unit
3.1 The Plan will be administered by the Committee, except as otherwise provided in Section 4.7.
Committee.
3.2 The Committee or, to the extent required by applicable law, the Board will have the authority, in its sole and absolute discretion and subject to the terms of the Plan, to:
Authority of the Committee.
(a) Interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to the Plan;
(b) Prescribe the rules and regulations that it deems necessary for the proper operation and administration of the Plan, and amend or rescind any existing rules or regulations relating to the Plan;
(c) Select Employees to receive Awards under the Plan;
(d) Determine the form of an Award, the number of Shares subject to each Award, all the terms and conditions of an Award, including, without limitation, the conditions on exercise or vesting, the designation of Stock Options as Incentive Stock Options or Nonqualified Stock Options, and the circumstances under which an Award may be settled in cash or Shares or may be cancelled, forfeited or suspended, and the terms of each Award Certificate;
(e) Determine whether Awards will be granted singly, in combination or in tandem;
(f) Establish and interpret Performance Measures (or, as applicable, other performance criteria) in connection with Annual Performance Bonuses and Long-Term Performance Awards, evaluate the level of performance over a Performance Cycle and certify the level of performance attained with respect to Performance Measures (or other performance criteria, as applicable);
(g) Subject to Sections 6.1 and 7.12, waive or amend any terms, conditions, restriction or limitation on an Award, except that the prohibition on the repricing of Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, as described in Section 4.3(g), may not be waived;
(h) Make any adjustments to the Plan (including but not limited to adjustment of the number of Shares available under the Plan or any Award) and any Award granted under the Plan as may be appropriate pursuant to Section 5.3;
(i) Determine and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate the circumstances under which Awards may be deferred and the extent to which a deferral will be credited with Dividend Equivalents and interest thereon;
(j) Determine and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate whether a Nonqualified Stock Option or Restricted Share may be transferable to family members, a family trust or a family partnership;
(k) Establish any subplans and make any modifications to the Plan, without amending the Plan, or to Awards made hereunder (including the establishment of terms and conditions in the Award Certificate not otherwise inconsistent with the terms of the Plan) that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable for grants made in countries outside the United States to comply with, or to achieve favorable
 
tax treatment under, applicable foreign laws or regulations or tax policies or customs;
(l) Appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; and
(m) Take any and all other actions it deems necessary or advisable for the proper operation or administration of the Plan.
3.3 All determinations of the Committee will be final, binding and conclusive on all persons having an interest in the Plan.
Effect of Determinations.
3.4 The Board or, if permitted under applicable corporate law, the Committee, in its discretion and consistent with applicable law and regulations, may delegate to a committee or an officer or group of officers, as it deems to be advisable, the authority to select Employees to receive an Award and to determine the number of Shares under any such Award, subject to any terms and conditions that the Board or the Committee may establish. When the Board or the Committee delegates authority pursuant to the foregoing sentence, it will limit, in its discretion, the number or value of Shares that may be subject to Awards that the delegate may grant. Only the Committee has the authority to grant and administer Awards to Key Employees and other Reporting Persons or to delegates of the Committee, and to establish and certify Performance Measures.
Delegation of Authority.
3.5 The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants and other advisors, and the Committee, the Company and the officers and directors of the Company may rely upon the advice, opinions or valuations of the advisors employed.
Employment of Advisors.
3.6 No member of the Committee or any person acting as a delegate of the Committee with respect to the Plan will be liable for any losses resulting from any action, interpretation or construction made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan.
No Liability.
4.1 All Participants and Employees are eligible to be designated to receive Awards granted under the Plan, except as otherwise provided in this Article IV.
Eligibility.
4.2 Awards will be in the form determined by the Committee, in its discretion, and will be evidenced by an Award Certificate. Awards may be granted singly or in combination or in tandem with other Awards.
Form of Awards.
4.3 The Committee may grant Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights under the Plan to those Employees whom the Committee may from time to time select, in the amounts and pursuant to the other terms and conditions that the Committee, in its discretion, may determine and set forth in the Award Certificate, subject to the provisions below:
Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights.
(a) Stock Options granted under the Plan will, at the discretion of the Committee and as set forth in the Award Certificate, be in the form of Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options or a combination of the two. If an Incentive Stock Option and a Nonqualified Stock Option are granted to the same Participant under the Plan at the same time, the form of each will be clearly identified, and they will be deemed to have been granted in separate grants. In no event will the exercise of one Award affect the right to exercise the other Award. Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted either alone or concurrently with Nonqualified Stock Options and the amount of Shares attributable to each Stock Appreciation Right shall be set forth in the applicable Award Certificate on or before the grant date.
Form.
(b) The Committee will set the Exercise Price of Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights granted under the Plan at a price that is equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.3. The Committee will set the Exercise Price of Premium-Priced Stock Options at a price that is higher than the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the date of grant, provided that such price is no higher than 150 percent of such Fair Market Value. The Exercise Price of Incentive Stock Options will be equal to or greater than 110 percent of the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the date of grant if the Participant receiving the Stock Options owns shares possessing more than 10 percent of the total combined voting power of all
Exercise Price.
 
classes of shares of the Company or any subsidiary or parent corporation of the Company, as defined in Section 424 of the Code. The Exercise Price of a Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with a Stock Option will equal the Exercise Price of the related Stock Option. On or before the grant date, the Committee will set forth the Exercise Price of a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right in the Award Certificate or accompanying documentation. Stock Options granted under the Plan will, at the discretion of the Committee and as set forth in the Award Certificate or accompanying documentation, be Stock Options, Premium-Priced Stock Options or a combination of Stock Options and Premium-Priced Stock Options.
(c) Each Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right granted under the Plan will be exercisable in whole or in part, subject to the following conditions, unless determined otherwise by the Committee:
Term and Timing of Exercise.
(i) The term of each Stock Option shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate, but in no event shall the term of a Stock Option exceed ten (10) years from the date of its grant.
(ii) A Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right will become exercisable at such times and in such manner as determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate.
(ii) Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, upon the death, Disability, Normal Retirement or a Change in Control Termination of a Participant who has outstanding Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, the unvested Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights will fully vest. Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, the Participant's Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights will lapse, and will not thereafter be exercisable, upon the earlier of (A) their original expiration date or (B) the date that is three (3) years after the date on which the Participant dies, incurs a Disability or retires due to Normal Retirement.
(iii) Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, upon the Termination of Employment of a Participant for any reason other than the Participant's death, Disability, Normal Retirement or a Change in Control Termination, if the Participant has attained age 55 and the sum of the Participant's age and years of service with the Company or a Subsidiary is 60 or higher, a pro rata portion of the Participant's Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights will vest so that the total number of vested Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights held by the Participant at Termination of Employment (including those that have already vested as of such date) will be equal to the total number of Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights originally granted to the Participant under the applicable Award multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the period of time (in whole months) that have elapsed since the date of grant, and the denominator of which is the number of months set forth in the applicable Award Certificate that is required to attain full vesting. Unless the Award Certificate provides otherwise, such Participant's Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights will lapse, and will not thereafter be exercisable, upon the earlier of (A) their original expiration date or (B) the date that is three (3) years after the date of Termination of Employment.
(iv) Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, upon the Termination of Employment of a Participant that does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (ii) or (iii) above, any unvested Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights will be forfeited. Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, any Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights that are vested as of such Termination of Employment will lapse, and will not thereafter be exercisable, upon the earlier of (A) their original expiration date or (B) the date that is ninety (90) days after the date of such Termination of Employment.
(v) Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights of a deceased Participant may be exercised only by the estate of the Participant or by the person given authority to exercise the Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights by the Participant's will or by operation of law. If a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right is exercised by the executor or administrator of a deceased Participant, or by the person or persons to whom the Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right has been transferred by the Participant's will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution, the Company will be under no obligation to deliver Shares or cash until the Company is satisfied that the person exercising the Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right is the duly appointed executor or administrator of the deceased
 
Participant or the person to whom the Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right has been transferred by the Participant's will or by applicable laws of descent and distribution.
(vi) A Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with a Stock Option is subject to the same terms and conditions as the related Stock Option and will be exercisable only to the extent that the related Stock Option is exercisable.
(d) The Exercise Price of a Stock Option must be paid in full when the Stock Option is exercised. Shares will be issued and delivered only upon receipt of payment. Payment of the Exercise Price may be made in cash or by certified check, bank draft, wire transfer, or postal or express money order, provided that the format is approved by the Company or a designated third-party administrator. The Committee, in its discretion may also allow payment to be made by any of the following methods, as set forth in the applicable Award Certificate:
Payment of Exercise Price.
(i) Delivering a properly executed exercise notice to the Company or its agent, together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver to the Company, within the typical settlement cycle for the sale of equity securities on the relevant trading market (or otherwise in accordance with the provisions of Regulation T issued by the Federal Reserve Board), the amount of sale proceeds with respect to the portion of the Shares to be acquired having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the sum of the applicable portion of the Exercise Price being so paid;
(ii) Subject to any requirements of applicable law and regulations, tendering (actually or by attestation) to the Company or its agent previously acquired Shares that have a Fair Market Value on the day prior to the date of exercise equal to the applicable portion of the Exercise Price being so paid; or
(iii) Subject to any requirements of applicable law and regulations, instructing the Company to reduce the number of Shares that would otherwise be issued by such number of Shares as have in the aggregate a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the applicable portion of the Exercise Price being so paid.
(e) Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan will be subject to the following additional conditions, limitations and restrictions:
Incentive Stock Options.
(i) Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Employees of the Company or a Subsidiary that is a subsidiary or parent corporation of the Company within the meaning of Code Section 424.
Eligibility.
(ii) No Incentive Stock Option will be granted under the Plan after the 10-year anniversary of the date on which the Plan is adopted by the Board or, if earlier, the date on which the Plan is approved by the stockholders of Covidien Ltd.
Timing of Grant.
(iii) Subject to Section 5.3 of the Plan, no more than 10 million Shares may be available for grant in the form of Incentive Stock Options. The aggregate Fair Market Value (as of the date of grant) of the Shares with respect to which the Incentive Stock Options awarded to any Employee first become exercisable during any calendar year may not exceed $100,000 (U.S.). For purposes of this $100,000 (U.S.) limit, the Employee's Incentive Stock Options under this Plan and all other plans maintained by the Company and its Subsidiaries will be aggregated. To the extent any Incentive Stock Option would exceed the $100,000 (U.S.) limit, the Incentive Stock Option will afterwards be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option to the extent required by the Code and underlying regulations and rulings.
Amount of Award.
(iv) If the Committee exercises its discretion in the Award Certificate to permit an Incentive Stock Option to be exercised by a Participant more than three months after the Participant has ceased being an Employee (or more than 12 months if the Participant is permanently and totally disabled, within the meaning of Code Section 22(e)), the Incentive Stock Option will afterwards be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option to the extent required by the Code and underlying regulations and rulings. For purposes of this paragraph (iv), an Employee's employment relationship will be treated as continuing intact while the Employee is on military leave, sick leave or another approved leave of absence if the
Timing of Exercise.
 
period of leave does not exceed 90 days, or a longer period to the extent that the Employee's right to reemployment with the Company or a Subsidiary is guaranteed by statute or by contract. If the period of leave exceeds 90 days and the Employee's right to reemployment is not guaranteed by statute or contract, the employment relationship will be deemed to have ceased on the 91st day of the leave.
(v) In no event will the Committee permit an Incentive Stock Option to be transferred by an Employee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and any Incentive Stock Option awarded under this Plan will be exercisable only by the Employee during the Employee's lifetime.
Transfer Restrictions.
(f) Upon exercise of a Participant's Stock Appreciation Rights, the Company will pay cash or Shares or a combination of cash and Shares, in the discretion of the Committee and as described in the Award Certificate. Cash payments will be equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise over the Exercise Price, for each Share for which a Stock Appreciation Right was exercised. If Shares are paid for the Stock Appreciation Right, the Participant will receive a number of whole Shares equal to the quotient of the cash payment amount divided by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise.
Exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights.
(g) Except as otherwise provided in Section 5.3, in no event will the Committee decrease the Exercise Price of a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right after the date of grant or cancel outstanding Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights and grant replacement Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights with a lower Exercise Price than that of the replaced Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights or other Awards without first obtaining the approval of the holders of a majority of the Shares who are present in person or by proxy at a meeting of the Company's shareholders and entitled to vote.
No Repricing.
4.4 The Committee may grant Annual Performance Bonuses under the Plan in the form of cash or Shares to the Reporting Persons that the Committee may from time to time select, in the amounts and pursuant to the terms and conditions that the Committee may determine and set forth in the Award Certificate, subject to the provisions below:
Annual Performance Bonuses.
(a) Annual Performance Bonuses will be awarded in connection with a twelve (12) month Performance Cycle, which will be the fiscal year of the Company.
Performance Cycles.
(b) Within ninety (90) days after the commencement of a Performance Cycle, the Committee will determine the Reporting Persons who will be eligible to receive an Annual Performance Bonus under the Plan. If an individual becomes a Reporting Person after this ninety (90) day period, the Committee may determine that such Reporting Person is eligible to receive a pro rata Annual Performance Bonus under the Plan.
Eligible Participants.
(c)
Performance Measures; Targets; Award Criteria.
(i) Within ninety (90) days after the commencement of the service period to which a Performance Cycle relates, the Committee will fix and establish in writing (A) the Performance Measures that will apply to that Performance Cycle; (B) the Target Amount payable to each Participant; and (C) subject to subsection (d) below, the criteria for computing the amount that will be paid with respect to each level of attained performance. The Committee will also set forth the minimum level of performance, based on objective factors, that must be attained during the Performance Cycle before any Annual Performance Bonus will be paid and the percentage of the Target Amount that will become payable upon attainment of various levels of performance that equal or exceed the minimum required level.
(ii) The Committee may, in its discretion, select Performance Measures that measure the performance of the Company or one or more business units, divisions or Subsidiaries of the Company. The Committee may select Performance Measures that are absolute or relative to the performance of one or more comparable companies or an index of comparable companies.
(iii) The Committee, in its discretion, may, on a case-by-case basis, reduce, but not increase, the amount payable to any Key Employee with respect to any given Performance Cycle, provided, however, that no reduction will result in an increase in the amount payable under any Annual Performance Bonus of another Key Employee.
 
(d) No Annual Performance Bonus will vest with respect to any Reporting Person until the Committee certifies in writing the level of performance attained for the Performance Cycle in relation to the applicable Performance Measures. In applying Performance Measures, the Committee may, in its discretion, exclude unusual or infrequently occurring items (including any event listed in Section 5.3 and the cumulative effect of changes in the law, regulations or accounting rules), and may determine no later than ninety (90) days after the commencement of any applicable Performance Cycle to exclude other items, each determined in accordance with GAAP (to the extent applicable).
Payment, Certification.
(e) Annual Performance Bonuses will be paid in cash or Shares. All such Performance Bonuses shall be paid no later than the 15th day of the third month following the end of the calendar year (or, if later, following the end of the Company's fiscal year) in which such Performance Bonuses are no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as determined for purposes of Section 409A of the Code), except to the extent that a Participant has elected to defer payment under the terms of a duly authorized deferred compensation arrangement, in which case the terms of such arrangement shall govern.
Form of Payment.
(f) It is the intent of the Company that Annual Performance Bonuses be "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code, that this Section 4.4 be interpreted in a manner that satisfies the applicable requirements of Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code and related regulations, and that the Plan be operated so that the Company may take a full tax deduction for Annual Performance Bonuses. If any provision of this Plan or any Annual Performance Bonus would otherwise frustrate or conflict with this intent, the provision will be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid this conflict.
Section 162(m) of the Code.
(g) Each Participant who is eligible to receive an Annual Performance Bonus with respect to a Performance Cycle during which a Change of Control occurs will, except as otherwise provided below, be deemed to have achieved a level of performance, as of the date of Change in Control, that would cause all (100%) of the Participant's Target Amount to become payable at such times and in such manner as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, if (i) a surviving entity maintains the Performance Cycle in which a Change in Control occurs, or otherwise provides for the payment of an Annual Performance Bonus based on the level of performance attained for such Performance Cycle in relation to the Performance Measures established for such Performance Cycle (including Performance Measures that were adjusted or modified as a result of the Change in Control) and (ii) the Annual Performance Bonus based on the level of performance attained for such Performance Cycle exceeds all (100%) of the Participant's Target Amount, then each Participant who is eligible to receive an Annual Performance Bonus with respect to such Performance Cycle shall receive an Annual Performance Bonus based on the level of performance attained for such Performance Cycle at such times and in such manner as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, or successor to the Committee. The time and manner of any payments made pursuant to this Section 4.4(g) shall comply with Section 4.4(e) above.
Acceleration.
4.5 The Committee may grant Long-Term Performance Awards under the Plan in the form of Performance Units, Restricted Units or Restricted Stock to any Employee who the Committee may from time to time select, in the amounts and pursuant to the terms and conditions that the Committee may determine and set forth in the Award Certificate, subject to the provisions below:
Long-Term Performance Awards.
(a) Long-Term Performance Awards will be awarded in connection with a Performance Cycle, as determined by the Committee in its discretion, provided, however, that a Performance Cycle may be no shorter than twelve (12) months and no longer than five (5) years.
Performance Cycles.
(b) Within ninety (90) days after the commencement of a Performance Cycle, the Committee will determine the Employees who will be eligible to receive a Long-Term Performance Award for the Performance Cycle, provided that the Committee may determine the eligibility of any Employee other than a Key Employee after the expiration of this ninety (90) day period.
Eligible Participants.
 
(c)
Performance Measures; Targets; Award Criteria.
(i) Within ninety (90) days after the commencement of the service period to which a Performance Cycle relates, the Committee will fix and establish in writing (A) the Performance Measures that will apply to that Performance Cycle; (B) with respect to Performance Units, the Target Amount payable to each Participant; (C) with respect to Restricted Units and Restricted Stock, the Target Vesting Percentage for each Participant; and (D) subject to subsection (d) below, the criteria for computing the amount that will be paid or will vest with respect to each level of attained performance. The Committee will also set forth the minimum level of performance, based on objective factors, that must be attained during the Performance Cycle before any Long-Term Performance Award will be paid or vest, and the percentage of Performance Units that will become payable and the percentage of performance-based Restricted Units or Shares of Restricted Stock that will vest upon attainment of various levels of performance that equal or exceed the minimum required level.
(ii) The Committee may, in its discretion, select Performance Measures that measure the performance of the Company or one or more business units, divisions or Subsidiaries of the Company. The Committee may select Performance Measures that are absolute or relative to the performance of one or more comparable companies or an index of comparable companies.
(iii) The Committee, in its discretion, may, on a case-by-case basis, reduce, but not increase, the amount of Long-Term Performance Awards payable to any Key Employee with respect to any given Performance Cycle, provided, however, that no reduction will result in an increase in the dollar amount or number of Shares payable under any Long-Term Performance Award of another Key Employee.
(iv) With respect to Employees who are not Key Employees, the Committee may establish, in its discretion, performance criteria other than the Performance Measures that will be applicable for the Performance Cycle.
(d) No Long-Term Performance Award will vest with respect to any Employee until the Committee certifies in writing the level of performance attained for the Performance Cycle in relation to the applicable Performance Measures. Long-Term Performance Awards awarded to Participants who are not Key Employees will be based on the Performance Measures, or other applicable performance criteria, and payment formulas that the Committee, in its discretion, may establish for these purposes. These Performance Measures, or other performance criteria, and formulas may be the same as or different than the Performance Measures and formulas that apply to Key Employees.
Payment, Certification.
In applying Performance Measures, the Committee may, in its discretion, exclude unusual or infrequently occurring items (including any event listed in Section 5.3 and the cumulative effect of changes in the law, regulations or accounting rules, and may determine no later than ninety (90) days after the commencement of any applicable Performance Cycle to exclude other items, each determined in accordance with GAAP (to the extent applicable) and as identified in the financial statements, notes to the financial statements or discussion and analysis of management.
(e) Long-Term Performance Awards in the form of Performance Units may be paid in cash or full Shares, in the discretion of the Committee, and as set forth in the applicable Award Certificate. Performance-based Restricted Units and Restricted Stock will be paid in full Shares. Payment with respect to any fractional Share will be in cash in an amount based on the Fair Market Value of the Share as of the date the Performance Unit becomes payable. All Long-Term Performance Awards shall be paid no later than the 15th day of the third month following the end of the calendar year (or, if later, following the end of the Company's fiscal year) in which such Long-Term Performance Awards are no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (within the meaning of Code Section 409A), except to the extent that a Participant has elected to defer payment under the terms of a duly authorized deferred compensation arrangement, in which case the terms of such arrangement shall govern, or as otherwise provided in Section 4.5(g) below.
Form of Payment.
(f) It is the intent of the Company that Long-Term Performance Awards made to Key Employees be "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code, that this
Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
Section 4.5 be interpreted in a manner that satisfies the applicable requirements of Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code and related regulations with respect to Long-Term Performance awards made to Key Employees, and that the Plan be operated so that the Company may take a full tax deduction for Long-Term Performance Awards. If any provision of this Plan or any Long-Term Performance Award would otherwise frustrate or conflict with this intent, the provision will be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid this conflict.
(g) Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, upon the death, Disability, Normal Retirement or a Change in Control Termination of a Participant who has an outstanding Long-Term Performance Award, the unvested Long-Term Performance Award will fully vest when the Committee certifies the performance criteria for the applicable Performance Period have been satisfied. Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, upon the Termination of Employment of a Participant for any reason other than the Participant's death, Disability, Normal Retirement or a Change in Control Termination, the unvested Long-Term Performance Award will be forfeited unless the Participant has attained age 55 and the sum of the Participant's age and years of service with the Company or a Subsidiary is 60 or higher, in which case a pro rata portion of the Participant's Long-Term Performance Awards will vest on the date the Committee certifies the performance criteria for the applicable Performance Period have been satisfied so that the total number of vested Long-Term Performance Awards held by the Participant on such date shall equal the total number of Long-Term Performance Awards in which such Participant would have vested had such Participant remained in active employment with the Company or any Subsidiary until the date the Committee certifies the performance criteria for the applicable Performance Period have been satisfied and after adjustment for the attained level of performance multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the period of time (in whole months) that have elapsed since the date of grant, and the denominator of which is the number of total months set forth in the applicable Award Certificate for such Performance Period.
Special Vesting Provisions.
4.6 The Committee may, from time to time, grant Awards (other than Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Annual Performance Bonuses or Long-Term Performance Awards) to any Employee who the Committee may from time to time select, which Awards consist of, or are denominated in, payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise related to, Shares. These Awards may include, among other forms, Restricted Stock, Restricted Units, or Deferred Stock Units. The Committee will determine, in its discretion, the terms and conditions that will apply to Awards granted pursuant to this Section 4.6, which terms and conditions will be set forth in the applicable Award Certificate.
Other Stock-Based Awards.
(a) Restrictions on Other Stock-Based Awards granted under this Section 4.6 will lapse at such times and in such manner as determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate. Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, if the restrictions on Other Stock-Based Awards have not lapsed or been satisfied as of the Participant's Termination of Employment, the Shares will be forfeited by the Participant if the termination is for any reason other than the Normal Retirement, death or Disability of the Participant or a Change in Control Termination, except that the Award will vest pro rata with respect to the portion of the vesting term set forth in the applicable Award Certificate that the Participant has completed if the Participant has attained age 55 and the sum of the Participant's age and years of service with the Company is 60 or higher. All restrictions on Other Stock-Based Awards granted pursuant to this Section 4.6 will lapse upon the Normal Retirement, death or Disability of the Participant or a Change in Control Termination.
Vesting.
(b) The Committee may grant Restricted Stock to any Employee, which Shares will be registered in the name of the Participant and held for the Participant by the Company. The Participant will have all rights of a shareholder with respect to the Shares, including the right to vote and to receive dividends or other distributions, except that the Shares may be subject to a vesting schedule and will be forfeited if the Participant attempts to sell, transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber or dispose of the Shares before the restrictions are satisfied or lapse.
Grant of Restricted Stock.
(c) The Committee may grant Restricted Units to any Employee, which Units will be paid in cash or whole Shares or a combination of cash and Shares, in the discretion of the Committee, when the restrictions on the Units lapse and any other conditions set forth in the Award Certificate have been satisfied. For each Restricted Unit that vests, one Share will be paid or an amount in cash equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the date on which the Restricted Unit vests.
Grant of Restricted Units.
(d) The Committee may grant Deferred Stock Units to any Employee, which
Grant of Deferred Stock Units.
 
Units will be paid in whole Shares upon the Employee's Termination of Employment if the restrictions on the Units have lapsed. One Share will be paid for each Deferred Stock Unit that becomes payable.
(e) At the discretion of the Committee and as set forth in the applicable Award Certificate, dividends paid on Shares may be paid immediately or withheld and deferred in the Participant's account. In the event of a payment of dividends on the Ordinary Shares, the Committee may credit Restricted Units with Dividend Equivalents in accordance with terms and conditions established in the discretion of the Committee. Dividend Equivalents will be subject to such vesting terms as is determined by the Committee and may be distributed immediately or withheld and deferred in the Participant's account as determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate. Deferred Stock Units may, in the discretion of the Committee and as set forth in the Award Certificate, be credited with Dividend Equivalents or additional Deferred Stock Units. The number of any Deferred Stock Units credited to a Participant's account upon the payment of a dividend will be equal to the quotient produced by dividing the cash value of the dividend by the Fair Market Value of one Share as of the date the dividend is paid. The Committee will determine any terms and conditions on deferral of a dividend or Dividend Equivalent, including the rate of interest to be credited on deferral and whether interest will be compounded.
Dividends and Dividend Equivalents.
4.7
Director Awards.
(a) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Nominating Committee shall have the exclusive authority to issue awards to Directors (Director Awards), which may consist of, but not be limited to, Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, or Other Stock-Based Awards. Each Director Award shall be governed by an Award Certificate approved by the Nominating Committee.
(b) The Nominating Committee shall have the exclusive authority to administer Director Awards, and shall have the authority set forth in Section 3.2 and the indemnification set forth in Section 7.7, solely as such provisions apply to the Director Awards. All determinations made by the Nominating Committee hereunder shall be final, binding and conclusive.
4.8 The Committee may make Awards under the Plan to Acquired Grantees through the assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding stock-based awards previously granted to such Acquired Grantees. Such assumed or substituted Awards will be subject to the terms and conditions of the original awards made by the Acquired Company, with such adjustments therein as the Committee considers appropriate to give effect to the relevant provisions of any agreement for the acquisition of the Acquired Company. Any grant of Incentive Stock Options pursuant to this Section 4.8 will be made in accordance with Section 424 of the Code and any final regulations published thereunder.
Substitute Awards.
4.9 Subject to Sections 5.1 and 5.3, no Employee may be granted more than six (6) million Shares over any calendar year pursuant to Awards of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and performance-based Restricted Stock and Restricted Units, except that an incentive Award of no more than ten (10) million Shares may be made pursuant to Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and performance-based Restricted Stock and Restricted Units to any person who has been hired within the calendar year as a Key Employee. The maximum amount that may be paid in cash or Shares pursuant to Annual Performance Bonuses or Long-Term Performance Awards paid in Performance Units to any one Employee is $15 million (U.S.) for any Performance Cycle of twelve (12) months. For any longer Performance Cycle, this maximum will be adjusted proportionally.
Limit on Individual Grants.
4.10 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein and unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, if a Participant incurs a Termination of Directorship or Termination of Employment for Cause, then all Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Annual Performance Bonuses, Long-Term Performance Awards, Restricted Units, Restricted Stock and Other Stock-Based Awards will immediately be cancelled. The exercise of any Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right or the payment of any Award may be delayed, in the Committee's discretion, in the event that a potential termination for Cause is pending. Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, if a Participant incurs a Termination of Directorship or Termination of Employment for Cause, then the Participant will be required to deliver to the Company (i) Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, cash) equal in value to the amount of any profit the Participant realized upon the exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciate Right during the twelve (12) month period occurring immediately prior to the Participant's Termination of Directorship or Termination of Employment for Cause; and (ii) the number of Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, the cash value of Shares) the Participant received for Other Stock Based Awards (including Restricted Stock, Restricted Units and Deferred Stock Units) that vested
Termination for Cause.
 
during the period specified in (i) above. Unless the applicable award certificate provides otherwise, if, after a Participant's Termination of Directorship or Termination of Employment, the Committee determines in its sole discretion that while the Participant was a Company or Subsidiary employee or a Director, such Participant engaged in activity that would have been grounds for a Termination of Directorship or Termination of Employment for Cause, then the Company will immediately cancel all Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Annual Performance Bonuses, Long-Term Performance Awards, Restricted Units, Restricted Stock and Other Stock-Based Awards and the Participant will be required to deliver to the Company (A) Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, cash) equal in value to the amount of any profit the Participant realized upon the exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciate Right during the period that begins twelve (12) months immediately prior to the Participant's Termination of Directorship or Termination of Employment and ends on the date of the Committee's determination that the Participant's conduct would have constituted grounds for a Termination of Directorship or Termination of Employment for Cause; and (B) the number of Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, the cash value of said shares) the Participant received for Other Stock Based Awards (including Restricted Stock, Restricted Units and Deferred Stock Units) that vested during the period specified in (A) above.
5.1 The Shares issuable under the Plan will be authorized but unissued Shares, and, to the extent permissible under applicable law, Shares acquired by the Company, any Subsidiary or any other person or entity designated by the Company. The total number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be issued under the Plan may equal, but may not exceed 35 million, subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 5.3; provided that when Shares are issued pursuant to a grant of Restricted Stock, Restricted Units, Deferred Stock Units, Performance Units or as payment of an Annual Performance Bonus or Other Stock-Based Award, the total number of Shares remaining available for grant will be decreased by a margin of at least 1.8 per Share issued. No more than 10 million Shares of the total Shares issuable under the Plan may be available for grant in the form of Incentive Stock Options.
Shares Available.
5.2 The following Shares related to Awards under this Plan may again be available for issuance under the Plan, in addition to the Shares described in Section 5.1:
Counting Rules.
(a) Shares related to Awards paid in cash;
(b) Shares related to Awards that expire, are forfeited or cancelled or terminate for any other reason without issuance of Shares;
(c) Any Shares issued in connection with Awards that are assumed, converted or substituted as a result of the acquisition of an Acquired Company by the Company or a combination of the Company with another company; and
(d) Any Shares of Restricted Stock that are returned to the Company upon a Participant's Termination of Employment or, if applicable, a Director's Termination of Directorship.
5.3 In the event of a change in the outstanding Shares by reason of a share split, reverse share split, dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities or other property), extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, reorganization, combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities or similar corporate transaction or event, the Committee shall make an appropriate adjustment to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan. Any adjustment made by the Committee under this Section 5.3 will be conclusive and binding for all purposes under the Plan.
Adjustments.
5.4
Change in Control.
(a) Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, (i) all outstanding Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights will become exercisable as of the effective date of a Participant's Change in Control Termination if the Awards are not otherwise vested, and all conditions will be waived with respect to outstanding Restricted Stock and Restricted Units (other than Long-Term Performance Awards) and Deferred Stock Units and (ii) each Participant who has been granted a Long-Term Performance Award that is outstanding as of the date of such Participant's Change in Control Termination will be deemed to have achieved a level of performance, as of the Change in Control Termination, that would cause all (100%) of the Participant's Target
Acceleration.
 
Amounts to become payable and all restrictions on the Participant's performance-based Restricted Units and Shares of Restricted Stock to lapse. Unless the Committee determines otherwise in its discretion (either when an Award is granted or any time thereafter), in the event that Awards outstanding as of the date of a Change in Control that are payable in Ordinary Shares of the Company will not be substituted with comparable awards payable or redeemable in shares of publicly-traded shares after the Change in Control, each such outstanding Award (A) will become fully vested (at target, where applicable) immediately prior to the Change in Control and (B) each such Award that is a Stock Option will be settled in cash, without the Participant's consent, for an amount equal to the amount that could have been attained upon the exercise of such Award immediately prior to the Change in Control had such Award been exercisable or payable at such time.
(b) . In addition to the actions described in Section 5.4(a)(A) and (B), in the event of a Change in Control, the Committee may take any one or more of the following actions with respect to any or all outstanding Awards, without the consent of Participants: (i) the Committee may determine that outstanding Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall be fully vested and exercisable and restrictions on Restricted Stock, Restricted Units, Deferred Stock Units and Other Stock-Based Awards shall lapse as of the date of the Change in Control or such other time (prior to a Participant's Change in Control Termination) as the Committee determines; (ii) the Committee may require that a Participant surrender his or her outstanding Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights in exchange for one or more payments by the Company, in cash or Ordinary Shares, as determined by the Committee, in an amount equal to the amount by which the then Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the Participant's unexercised Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights exceeds the Exercise Price, if any, and on such terms as the Committee determines; (iii) after giving Participants an opportunity to exercise any outstanding Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, the Committee may terminate any or all unexercised Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights at such time as the Committee deems appropriate; (iv) the Committee may determine that Annual Performance Bonuses and/or Long-Term Performance Awards will be paid out at their target level, in cash or Ordinary Shares as determined by the Committee; or (v) the Committee may determine that Awards that remain outstanding after the Change in Control shall be converted to similar grants of, or assumed by, the surviving corporation (or a parent or subsidiary of the surviving corporation or successor). Such acceleration, surrender, termination, settlement, payment or conversion shall take place as of the date of the Change in Control or such other date as the Committee determines. The Committee may specify how an Award will be treated in the event of a Change in Control either when the Award is granted or at any time thereafter.
Permissive Actions
5.5 No fractional Shares will be issued under the Plan. Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.5(e) and unless otherwise provided by the Committee, if a Participant acquires the right to receive a fractional Share under the Plan, the Participant will receive, in lieu of the fractional Share, a full Share as of the date of settlement.
Fractional Shares.
6.1 The Plan may be amended at any time and from time to time by the Board or authorized Board committee without the approval of shareholders of the Company, except that no material revision to the terms of the Plan will be effective until the amendment is approved by the shareholders of the Company. A revision is "material" for this purpose if, among other changes, it materially increases the number of Shares that may be issued under the Plan (other than an increase pursuant to Section 5.3 of the Plan), expands the types of Awards available under the Plan, materially expands the class of persons eligible to receive Awards under the Plan, materially extends the term of the Plan, materially decreases the Exercise Price at which Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted, reduces the Exercise Price of outstanding Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, or results in the replacement of outstanding Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights with new Awards that have an Exercise Price that is lower than the Exercise Price of the replaced Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights. No amendment of the Plan or any outstanding Award Certificate made without the Participant's written consent may adversely affect any right of a Participant with respect to an outstanding Award.
Amendment.
6.2 The Plan will terminate upon the earlier of the following dates or events to occur:
Termination.
(a) the adoption of a resolution of the Board terminating the Plan; or
(b) November 20, 2018, the day before the tenth (10
th
) anniversary of the adoption of the November 21, 2008
 
amendment and restatement of the Plan which was approved by the shareholders of Covidien Ltd. at its 2009 annual general meeting held on March 18, 2009.
No Awards will be granted under this Plan after it has terminated. The termination of the Plan, however, will not alter or impair any of the rights or obligations of any person under any Award previously granted under the Plan without such person's consent. After the termination of the Plan, any previously granted Awards will remain in effect and will continue to be governed by the terms of the Plan and the applicable Award Certificate.
7.1 No Award under the Plan will be subject in any manner to alienation, anticipation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or transfer, and no other persons will otherwise acquire any rights therein, except as provided below.
Nontransferability of Awards.
(a) Any Award may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent or distribution.
(b) Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, all or any part of a Nonqualified Stock Option or Shares of Restricted Stock may be transferred to a family member. For purposes of this subsection (b), "family member" includes any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law of the Participant, including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the Participant's household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than fifty percent (50%) of the beneficial interest, a foundation in which these persons (or the Participant) control the management of assets, and any other entity in which these persons (or the Participant) own more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting interests.
Any transferred Award will be subject to all of the same terms and conditions as provided in the Plan and the applicable Award Certificate. The Participant or the Participant's estate will remain liable for any withholding tax that may be imposed by any federal, state or local tax authority. The Company may, in its sole discretion, disallow all or a part of any transfer of an Award pursuant to this Subsection 7.1(b) unless and until the Participant makes arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the payment of any withholding tax. The Participant must immediately notify the Company, in the form and manner required by the applicable Award Certificate or as otherwise required by the Company, of any proposed transfer of an Award pursuant to this Subsection 7.1(b). No transfer will be effective until the Company consents to the transfer.
(c) Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, any Nonqualified Stock Option transferred by a Participant pursuant to subsection (b) may be exercised by the transferee only to the extent that the Award would have been exercisable by the Participant had no transfer occurred. The transfer of Shares upon exercise of the Award will be conditioned on the payment of any withholding tax.
(d) Restricted Stock may be freely transferred after the restrictions lapse or are satisfied and the Shares are delivered, provided, however, that Restricted Stock awarded to an affiliate of the Company may be transferred only pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or pursuant to an effective registration for resale under the Securities Act. For purposes of this subsection (d), "affiliate" will have the meaning assigned to that term under Rule 144.
(e) In no event may a Participant transfer an Incentive Stock Option other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
7.2 The Committee, in its discretion, may require the satisfaction of a Participant's tax withholding obligations by any of the following methods or any method as it determines to be in accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction in which the Participant resides, has domicile or performs services.
Withholding of Taxes.
(a) As a condition to the delivery of Shares pursuant to the exercise of a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right, the Committee may require that the Participant, at the time of exercise, pay to the Company by cash, certified check, bank draft, wire transfer or postal or express money order an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations. The Committee may also, in its
Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
discretion, accept payment of tax withholding obligations through any of the Exercise Price payment methods described in Section 4.3(d).
(b) The Participant shall satisfy the Participant's tax withholding obligations arising in connection with the release of restrictions on Restricted Units, Restricted Stock and Other Stock-Based Awards by payment to the Company in cash or by certified check, bank draft, wire transfer or postal or express money order, provided that the format is approved by the Company or a designated third-party administrator. However, subject to any requirements of applicable law, the Company may also satisfy the Participant's tax withholding obligations by other methods, including selling or withholding Shares that would otherwise be available for delivery.
Other Awards Payable in Shares.
(c) The Company may satisfy a Participant's tax withholding obligation arising in connection with the payment of any Award in cash by withholding cash from such payment.
Cash Awards.
7.3 The Committee may, in its discretion, provide in an Award Certificate that the Participant may not, within two (2) years after the Participant's Termination of Employment, enter into any employment or consultation arrangement (including service as an agent, partner, shareholder, consultant, officer or director) with any entity or person engaged in any business in which the Company or any Subsidiary is engaged without prior written approval of the Committee if, in the sole judgment of the Committee, the business is competitive with the Company or any Subsidiary or business unit or such employment or consultation arrangement would present a risk that the Participant would likely disclose Company proprietary information (as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee). If the Committee makes a determination that this prohibition has been violated, unless the Award Certificate otherwise provides, the Participant (i) will forfeit all rights under any outstanding Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right that was granted subject to the Award Certificate and will return to the Company the amount of any profit realized upon an exercise of all Awards during the period, as the Committee determines and sets forth in the Award Certificate, beginning no earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the Participant's Termination of Employment, and (ii) will forfeit and return to the Company any Annual Performance Bonuses, Performance Units, Shares of Restricted Stock, Restricted Units (including any credited Dividend Equivalents), Deferred Stock Units, and Other Stock-Based Awards that are outstanding on the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment, subject to the Award Certificate, and have not vested or that became vested and remain subject to this Section 7.3 during a period, as the Committee determines and sets forth in the Award Certificate, beginning no earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the Participant's Termination of Employment.
Special Forfeiture Provision.
7.4 The establishment and operation of the Plan, including the eligibility of a Participant to participate in the Plan, will not be construed as conferring any legal or other right upon any Director for any continuation of directorship or any Employee for the continuation of employment through the end of any Performance Cycle or other period. The Company expressly reserves the right, which may be exercised at any time and in the Company's sole discretion, to discharge any individual or treat him or her without regard to the effect that discharge might have upon him or her as a Participant in the Plan.
No Implied Rights.
7.5 The grant of a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right will impose no obligation upon the Participant to exercise the Award.
No Obligation to Exercise Awards.
7.6 A Participant who is granted an Award under the Plan will have no rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Award unless and until certificates for the Shares underlying the Award are registered in the Participant's name and (other than in the case of Restricted Stock) delivered to the Participant. The right of any Participant to receive an Award by virtue of participation in the Plan will be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company.
No Rights as Shareholders.
7.7 The Company will indemnify, to the fullest extent permitted by law, each person made or threatened to be made a party to any civil or criminal action or proceeding by reason of the fact that the person, or the executor or administrator of the person's estate, is or was a member of the Committee or an authorized delegate of the Committee including, for purposes of Director Awards, the Nominating Committee.
Indemnification of Committee.
7.8 Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary will be required to segregate any assets that may at any time be represented by Awards granted pursuant to the Plan.
No Required Segregation of Assets.
7.9 All Awards made pursuant to the Plan are in consideration of services for the Company or
Nature of Payments.
 
a Subsidiary. Any gain realized pursuant to Awards under the Plan constitutes a special incentive payment to the Participant and will not be taken into account as compensation for purposes of any other employee benefit plan of the Company or a Subsidiary, except as the Committee otherwise provides. The adoption of the Plan will have no effect on Awards made or to be made under any other benefit plan covering an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary or any predecessor or successor of the Company or a Subsidiary.
7.10 Awards under the Plan are intended to satisfy the requirements of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act. If any provision of this Plan or any grant of an Award would otherwise frustrate or conflict with this intent, that provision will be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid conflict. No Participant will be entitled to a grant, exercise, transfer or payment of any Award if the grant, exercise, transfer or payment would violate the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or any other applicable law.
Securities Law Compliance.
7.11 If this Plan provides a level of benefits with respect to Awards that differs from the level of benefits provided under the Covidien Severance Plan for U.S. Officers and Executives, the Covidien Change in Control Severance Plan for Certain U.S. Officers and Executives or the Covidien Severance Plan for U.S. Employees, then the terms of the plan that provides for the more favorable benefit to the Participant shall govern.
Coordination with Other Plans.
7.12 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan or an applicable Award Certificate to the contrary, the provisions of this Section 7.12 shall apply to all Awards that were issued or became vested on or after January 1, 2005 and that are subject to Code Section 409A, but only with respect to the portion of such Award that is subject to Code Section 409A.
Section 409A Compliance.
(a) . To the extent the Committee (or Nominating Committee with respect to Director Awards) determines that any Award granted under the Plan is subject to Code Section 409A, the Award Certificate evidencing such Award will incorporate the terms and conditions required by Code Section 409A. To the extent applicable, the Plan and the Award Certificate will be interpreted in accordance with Code Section 409A and the applicable regulations and rulings thereunder. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event that the Committee (or Nominating Committee with respect to Director Awards) determines that any Award may be subject to Code Section 409A, the Committee may adopt such amendments to the Plan and/or the applicable Award Certificate or adopt policies and procedures or take any other action or actions, including an action or amendment with retroactive effect, that the Committee (or Nominating Committee with respect to Director Awards) determines is necessary or appropriate to (i) exempt the Award from the application of Code Section 409A or (ii) comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A.
General
(b) . The following modifications to Plan provisions (and, if necessary, applicable Award Certificate provisions) shall apply.
Modifications to Defined Terms
(i) Any payment of deferred compensation that is to be made under an Award other than an Annual Performance Bonus upon the occurrence of a Change in Control or any change in the timing and/or form of such payment as a direct result of a Change in Control (including payments made upon a specified date or event occurring after a Change in Control) shall not be made, or such change in timing and/or form shall not occur, unless such Change in Control is also a "change in ownership or effective control" of the Company within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) and applicable regulations and rulings thereunder and such payment, or such change in timing and/or form, occurs no later than two (2) years after the date of such change in ownership or effective control of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Committee takes an action pursuant to Section 5.4(b) to accelerate the payment of deferred compensation upon a Change in Control, then any accelerated payment shall occur on a date specified in the applicable Award Certificate, which date shall be no later than ninety (90) days after a "change in ownership or effective control" of the Company. The payment of an Annual Performance Bonus that is to be accelerated pursuant to Subsection 4.4(g) shall occur within thirty (30) days after a "change in ownership or effective control" of the Company within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v).
(ii) The definition of "Change in Control Termination" in subsection (b) of that definition shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
"(b) termination of the Participant's employment by the Participant after one of the following events:
 
 
provided that an event described in (i) or (ii) above shall permit a Participant's termination of employment to be deemed a Change in Control Termination only if (x) the Participant provides written notice to the Company specifying in reasonable detail the event upon which the Participant is basing his termination within ninety (90) days after the occurrence of such event, (y) the Company fails to cure such event within thirty (30) days after its receipt of such notice, and (z) the Participant terminates his employment within sixty (60) days after the expiration of such cure period."
(iii) The definition of ""Disabled" or "Disability"" shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
""Disabled" or "Disability" means that the Employee is receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under a Company or Subsidiary accident and health plan covering the Employee by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months."
(iv) A Termination of Directorship or Termination of Employment shall only occur where such Termination of Directorship or Termination of Employment is a "separation from service" within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) and the applicable regulations and rulings thereunder. For purposes of determining whether a Termination of Directorship has occurred under this Subsection 7.12(b)(iii), services provided in the capacity of an employee or otherwise shall be excluded.
(c) . Any modifications to an Award pursuant to Subsection 3.2(g) or adjustments of an Award pursuant to Subsections 4.8 or 5.3 shall comply with the requirements of Section 409A.
Modifications to or Adjustments of Awards
(d) . Payments to any Participant who is a "specified employee" of deferred compensation that is subject to Code Section 409A(a)(2) and that becomes payable upon, or that is accelerated upon, such Participant's Termination of Employment (as modified by Subsection 7.12(b)(iii)), shall not be made on or before the date which is six (6) months following such Participant's Termination of Employment (or, if earlier, such Participant's death). A specified employee for this purpose shall be determined by the Committee or its delegate in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations and rulings thereunder.
Specified Employees
7.13 . To the extent the Committee (or Nominating Committee with respect to Director Awards) determines that any Award granted under the Plan is subject to Code Section 457A, the Award Certificate evidencing such Award will incorporate the terms and conditions required by Code Section 457A. To the extent applicable, the Plan and the Award Certificate will be interpreted in accordance with Code Section 457A and applicable guidance issued thereunder. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event that the Committee (or Nominating Committee with respect to Director Awards) determines that any Award may be subject to Code Section 457A, the Committee may adopt such amendments to the Plan and/or the applicable Award Certificate or adopt policies and procedures or take any other action or actions, including an action or amendment with retroactive effect, that the Committee (or Nominating Committee with respect to Director Awards) determines is necessary or appropriate to (i) exempt the
Section 457A Compliance
 
Award from the application of Code Section 457A or (ii) comply with the requirements of Code Section 457A.
7.14 The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken under the Plan will be governed by the law of Ireland and construed accordingly. If any provision of the Plan is held unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part, the unlawfulness, invalidity or unenforceability will not affect any other parts of the Plan, which parts will remain in full force and effect.
Governing Law, Severability.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
The Covidien Employee Stock Purchase Plan as amended and restated by Covidien Ltd. effective as of June 4, 2009 and as assumed by Covidien public limited company on June 4, 2009 (the "Plan") is created for the purpose of encouraging share ownership by officers and employees of Covidien public limited company (the "Company") and its subsidiaries so that they may share in growth of the Company by acquiring or increasing their proprietary interest in the Company.
The Plan is administered by the Compensation and Human Resources Committee, a committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Committee"). The Committee may delegate its authority and responsibility for plan administration to a committee or an officer or group of officers, as it deems advisable. The interpretation and construction by the Committee, or its delegate, of any provision of the Plan shall be final and binding on all parties. The Committee, or its delegate, may adopt, from time to time, such rules and regulations, as it deems appropriate for carrying out the Plan. No member of the Board of Directors or the Committee, or its delegate, shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan.
The Company will, from time to time, determine which of its employees (including employees of its subsidiaries and divisions) will be eligible to participate in the Plan. All officers who are employees of the Company will be eligible to participate in the Plan. Eligible employees who elect to participate in the Plan shall hereinafter be referred to as "Participants."
The shares subject to purchase under the Plan is 5,000,000 shares (subject to adjustment in the event of share splits, share
dividends, recapitalization, or similar adjustment in the Company's share capital) of the ordinary share capital of the Company (the "Shares") which will be purchased in accordance with Article 8.
Participants, upon entering the Plan, shall authorize payroll deductions to be made for the purchase of Shares. The maximum deduction shall not, on a per pay period basis, exceed a Participant's base salary or commission (in the case of an employee who receives commission and no base salary) and deductions shall be exclusive of overtime and net withholding and other deductions. The Participant may authorize increases or decreases in the amount of payroll deductions at any time. In order to effect such a change in the amount of the payroll deductions, the Company must receive notice of such change in the manner specified by the Company and changes will take effect as soon as administratively practicable. The Company will accumulate and hold for the Participant's account the amounts deducted from his/her pay. No interest shall be paid on such amounts. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, authorize a special bonus payment be made to a Participant and such bonus be designated as an employee contribution. The Company will match such employee contribution, subject to the limit described in the next Article. The bonus may exceed the contribution limits otherwise imposed on the Participant.
The Company will match a part of the employee contribution by contributing to the Plan an additional percentage of the Participant's payroll deduction. The Committee, from time to time, may increase or decrease the percentage of the Company's contribution to the Participant's payroll deduction if the interests of the Company so require. The Company shall not match any part of a Participant's contribution that exceeds twenty-five thousand dollars (US) ($25,000.00) during a single calendar year. The matching contributions hereunder are not intended to be entitlement or part of the regular compensation of any Participant. The Company will pay all commissions relating to the purchase of the Shares under the Plan, and the Company will pay all administrative costs associated with the implementation and operation of the Plan.
 
June 2009
An eligible employee may enter the Plan by enrolling in the Plan and specifying his/her contribution amount in the manner authorized by the Company. Such authorization will take effect as of the next practicable payroll period. Unless a Participant authorizes changes to his/her payroll deductions in accordance with Article 5 or withdraws from the Plan, his/her deductions under the latest authorization on file with the Company shall continue from one payment period to the succeeding payment period as long as the Plan remains in effect.
All Shares purchased under the Plan shall be purchased on the open market by a broker designated, from time to time, by the Committee. On a monthly basis, as soon as practicable following the month end, the Company shall remit the total of contributions to the broker for the purchase of the Shares. The broker will then execute the purchase order and the Plan Administrator shall allocate Shares (or fraction thereof) to each participant's individual recordkeeping account. In the event the purchase of Shares takes place over a number of days and at different prices, then each participant's allocation shall be adjusted on the basis of the average price per Share over such period.
The Shares purchased under the Plan shall be held by the Plan Administrator or its nominee. Participants shall receive periodic statements that will evidence all activity in the accounts that have been established on their behalf. Such statements will be issued by the Plan Administrator or its nominee.
Any dividends paid to a Participant for Shares purchased under the Plan shall be paid in cash except where the Participant voluntarily elects to reinvest such dividends in Shares of the Company in accordance with such rules or procedures as may be established by the Company from time to time.
 
Each Participant may sell at any time all or any portion of the Shares acquired under the Plan and held by the Plan Administrator for at least three months by notifying the Plan Administrator, who will direct the broker to execute the sale on behalf of the Participant. The Participant shall pay the broker's commission and any other expenses incurred with regard to the sale of the Shares. All such sales of the Shares will be subject to compliance with any applicable federal or state securities, tax, or other laws. Each participant assumes the risk of any fluctuations in the market price of the Shares.
A Participant may cease making contributions to the Plan at any time by changing his/her payroll deduction to zero as described in Article 5. In order to execute a sale of all or part of the Shares purchased under the Plan and held by the Plan Administrator for at least three months, the Participant must contact the Plan Administrator directly. If the Participant desires to withdraw from the Plan by liquidating all or part of his/her shareholder interest, he/she shall receive the proceeds from the sale thereof, minus the commission and other expenses on such sale.
A Participant's right to purchase Shares under the Plan through payroll deduction is his/hers alone and may not be transferred or assigned to, or availed of, by any other person.
All of the employee's rights under the Plan will terminate when he/she ceases to be an eligible employee due to retirement, resignation, death, termination, or any other reason. A notice of withdrawal will be deemed to have been received from a Participant on the day of his/her final payroll deduction. If a Participant's payroll deductions are interrupted by any legal process, a withdrawal notice will be deemed as having been received on the day the interruption occurs.
 
June 2009
The Plan may be terminated at any time by the Company's Board of Directors. Upon such termination, or any other termination of the Plan, all payroll deductions not used to purchase Shares will be refunded. The Board of Directors also reserves the right to amend the Plan, from time to time, in any respect and authorizes the Committee to approve amendments to the Plan on its behalf.
If the provisions of the Plan contradict local tax laws, the local tax laws shall prevail.
 
This Plan shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of Ireland.
If any provision of this Plan is held unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part, the unlawfulness, invalidity or unenforceability will not affect any other parts of the Plan, which parts will remain in force and effect.
 
June 2009

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
This Deed Poll relating to the Covidien Ltd. employee equity plans listed in Annex A (together the "") is made on 4 June 2009 by , a company established in Ireland with registered number 466385 having its registered office at C/O Tyco Healthcare Services Europe, Block G, First Floor, Cherrywood Business Park, Loughlinstown, Co. Dublin ("").
Employee Equity Plans
COVIDIEN PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
Covidien
, on 4 June 2009, Covidien Ltd., a company incorporated in Bermuda, received approval from the Supreme Court of Bermuda for a scheme of arrangement under Bermuda law (the "") that effected a transaction that resulted in the common shareholders of Covidien Ltd. becoming ordinary shareholders of Covidien and Covidien Ltd. becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of Covidien (the ""), such Transaction becoming effective on 4 June 2009 upon the filing of the court order sanctioning the Scheme of Arrangement with the Bermuda Registrar of Companies;
WHEREAS
Scheme of Arrangement
Transaction
, in connection with and contingent upon the consummation of the Transaction, Covidien proposed to assume (1) all awards issued by Tyco International Ltd. which were converted to Covidien Ltd. awards pursuant to Article VI of the Separation and Distribution Agreement by and among Tyco International Ltd., Covidien Ltd. and Tyco Electronics Ltd. dated as of 29 June 2007 and which remain outstanding on the effective date of this Deed Poll (the "") and (2) the Employee Equity Plans and any outstanding awards issued thereunder (the "");
WHEREAS
Converted Tyco Awards
Assumption
, in connection with and contingent upon the consummation of the Transaction and the Assumption, Covidien Ltd. amended the Employee Equity Plans as necessary or appropriate to give effect to the Transaction and the Assumption, such amendments principally providing (1) for the appropriate substitution of Covidien for Covidien Ltd. in such plans; and (2) that shares of Covidien will be issued, held available or used, as appropriate, to measure benefits under such plans, in lieu of shares of Covidien Ltd., including upon the exercise of any stock options or upon the vesting of restricted units or performance share units issued under such plans; and
WHEREAS
, as a result of the Transaction becoming effective, Covidien desires to assume (1) sponsorship of the Employee Equity Plans, the terms of which are contained in Annexes B through I; and (2) the rights and obligations of Covidien Ltd. under the Converted Tyco Awards and the Employee Equity Plans and all outstanding awards issued thereunder.
WHEREAS
NOW THIS DEED POLL WITNESSES AS FOLLOWS:
Covidien hereby declares, undertakes and agrees for the benefit of each participant in the Employee Equity Plans and the holders of the Converted Tyco Awards, as relevant, that, with effect from 4 June 2009 (the ""), it shall:
Effective Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
this Deed Poll has been executed by Covidien on the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
THIS DEED OF INDEMNIFICATION (this "Agreement"), dated as of                     , is made by and among Covidien Ltd., a Bermuda company (the "Company"), Covidien plc, an Irish public limited company and                      ("Indemnitee").
WHEREAS, the Company has effected a scheme of arrangement under Bermuda law (the "Scheme of Arrangement") pursuant to which the shareholders of the Company became shareholders of Covidien plc, and the Company became a wholly owned subsidiary of Covidien plc;
WHEREAS, it is essential to the Company and Covidien plc that Covidien plc retain and attract as directors and officers the most capable persons available;
WHEREAS, Indemnitee is a director and/or officer of Covidien plc;
WHEREAS, each of the Company, Covidien plc and Indemnitee recognize the increased risk of litigation and other claims currently being asserted against directors and officers of corporations;
WHEREAS, due to restrictions imposed by Irish law, the articles of association of Covidien plc (the "Covidien plc Articles of Association") do not confer indemnification and advancement rights on its directors and Secretary as broad as the indemnification and advancement rights that, prior to the effectiveness of the Scheme of Arrangement, were provided by the Bye-Laws of the Company (the "Company Bye-Laws") to its directors and Secretary;
WHEREAS, in recognition of Indemnitee's need for (i) substantial protection against personal liability, (ii) specific contractual assurance that such protection will be available to Indemnitee (regardless of, among other things, any amendment to or revocation of the Covidien plc Articles of Association or the Company Bye-Laws or any change in the composition of Covidien plc's Board of Directors or acquisition transaction relating to Covidien plc), the Company and Covidien plc wish to provide in this Agreement for the indemnification by the Company of and the advancing by the Company of expenses to Indemnitee to the fullest extent (whether partial or complete) permitted under law and as set forth in this Agreement, and, to the extent insurance is maintained, to provide for the continued coverage of Indemnitee under Covidien plc's directors' and officers' liability insurance policies as set forth in this Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the above premises and of Indemnitee continuing to serve Covidien plc directly or, at its request, with another Enterprise, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:
(a) : any corporation or other person or entity that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person specified.
Affiliate
(b) : the Board of Directors of Covidien plc.
Board
(c) : shall be deemed to have occurred if:
Change in Control
(i) any "person," as such term is used in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d) of the Exchange Act, becomes a "beneficial owner," as such term is used in Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, of 50% or more of the Voting Shares (as defined below) of Covidien plc;
(ii) the majority of the Board consists of individuals other than Incumbent Directors, which term means the members of the Board as of the Transaction Time (as defined in the Scheme of Arrangement), provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to such time whose election or nomination for election was supported by three-quarters of the directors who immediately prior to such election or nomination for election comprised the Incumbent Directors shall be considered to be an Incumbent Director;
(iii) Covidien plc adopts any plan of liquidation providing for the distribution of all or substantially all of its assets;
(iv) all or substantially all of the assets or business of Covidien plc is disposed of pursuant to a merger, consolidation or other transaction (unless the shareholders of Covidien plc immediately prior to such a merger, consolidation or other transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, in substantially the same proportion as they owned the Voting Shares of Covidien plc, all of the Voting Shares or other ownership interests of the entity or entities, if any, that succeed to the business of Covidien plc); or
(v) Covidien plc combines with another company and is the surviving corporation but, immediately after the combination, the shareholders of Covidien plc immediately prior to the combination hold, directly or indirectly, 50% or less of the Voting Shares of the combined company (there being excluded from the number of shares held by such shareholders, but not from the Voting Shares of the combined company, any shares received by Affiliates of such other company in exchange for shares of such other company),
 
provided, however, that any occurrence that would, in the absence of this proviso, otherwise constitute a Change in Control pursuant to any of clause (i), (iii), (iv) or (v) above, shall not constitute a Change in Control if such occurrence is approved by a majority of the directors on the Board who were directors immediately prior to such occurrence.
(d) : Covidien plc and any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which Indemnitee is or was serving at the request of Covidien plc as a director, officers, trustee, general partner, managing member, fiduciary, board of directors' committee member, employee or agent.
Enterprise
(e) : the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
(f) : any expense, liability, or loss, including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes and penalties, amounts paid or to be paid in settlement, any interest, assessments, or other charges imposed thereon, any federal, state, local, or foreign taxes imposed as a result of the actual or deemed receipt of any payments under this Agreement, and all other costs and obligations, paid or incurred in connection with investigating, defending, prosecuting (subject to Section 2(b)), being a witness in, participating in (including on appeal), or preparing for any of the foregoing in, any Proceeding relating to any Indemnifiable Event. Expenses also shall include Expenses incurred in connection with any appeal resulting from any Proceeding, including without limitation the premium, security for, and other costs relating to any cost bond, supersedeas bond, or other appeal bond or its equivalent.
Expenses
(g) : (i) any event or occurrence that takes place either prior to or after the execution of this Agreement, related to the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director or officer of Covidien plc, or while a director or officer of Covidien plc is or was serving at the request of Covidien plc as a director, officer, employee, trustee, agent, or fiduciary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, employee benefit plan, trust, or other Enterprise, or related to anything done or not done by Indemnitee in any such capacity, whether or not the basis of the Proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee, trustee, agent, or fiduciary or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee, trustee, agent, or fiduciary, (ii) any event or fact related to the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director, officer, employee, trustee, agent, or fiduciary of the Company or another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, employee benefit plan, trust, or other Enterprise and that related to the subject matter of the investigations referred to in the Company's Form 10 as filed on June 8, 2007 or any other investigation (whether or not the Company is or was a target of such investigation) by any government entity covering subject matter that is substantially similar to the subject matter of, or arises out of, the foregoing investigations or (iii) any event or occurrence that took place prior to the Transaction Time, related to the fact that Indemnitee was a director or
Indemnifiable Event
 
officer of the Company, or while a director or officer of the Company was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, trustee, agent, or fiduciary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, employee benefit plan, trust, or other Enterprise, or was a director, officer, employee, trustee, agent, or fiduciary of a foreign or domestic corporation that was a predecessor corporation of the Company or another Enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation, or related to anything done or not done by Indemnitee in any such capacity, whether or not the basis of the Proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee, trustee, agent, or fiduciary or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee, trustee, agent, or fiduciary.
(h) : the meaning specified in Section 3.
Independent Counsel
(i) : any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or proceeding or any alternative dispute resolution mechanism (including an action by or in the right of Covidien plc), or any inquiry, hearing, or investigation, whether conducted by Covidien plc or any other party, that Indemnitee in good faith believes might lead to the institution of any such action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative, or other.
Proceeding
(j) : the meaning specified in Section 3.
Reviewing Party
(k) : shares of any class or classes having general voting power under ordinary circumstances, in the absence of contingencies, to elect the directors (or similar function) of an Enterprise.
Voting Shares
 
(a) . In the event Indemnitee was, is, or becomes a party to or witness or other participant in, or is threatened to be made a party to or witness or other participant in, a Proceeding by reason of (or arising in part out of) an Indemnifiable Event, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee from and against any and all Expenses to the fullest extent permitted by law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended or interpreted (but in the case of any such amendment or interpretation, only to the extent that such amendment or interpretation permits the Company to provide broader indemnification rights than were permitted prior thereto). The parties hereto intend that this Agreement shall provide for indemnification in excess of that expressly permitted by statute, including without limitation, any indemnification provided by the Company Bye-Laws, the Covidien plc Articles of Association, or applicable law.
General Agreement
 
(b) . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, Indemnitee shall not be entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement in connection with any Proceeding initiated by Indemnitee against Covidien plc or any of its subsidiaries or any director or officer of Covidien plc or any of its subsidiaries unless (i) Covidien plc has joined in or the Board has consented to the initiation of such Proceeding; (ii) the Proceeding is one to enforce indemnification rights under Section 4; or (iii) the Proceeding is instituted after a Change in Control and Independent Counsel has approved its initiation.
Initiation of Proceeding
(c) . If so requested by Indemnitee, the Company shall advance (within five business days of such request) any and all Expenses to Indemnitee (an "Expense Advance"); provided that, (i) such Expense Advance shall be made only upon delivery to the Company of an undertaking by or on behalf of the Indemnitee to repay the amount thereof if it is ultimately determined that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company, (ii) the Company shall not (unless a court of competent jurisdiction shall determine otherwise) be required to make an Expense Advance if and to the extent that the Reviewing Party has determined that Indemnitee is not permitted to be indemnified under applicable law, and (iii) if and to the extent that the Reviewing Party determines after payment of one or more Expense Advances that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be so indemnified under applicable law, the Company shall be entitled to be reimbursed by Indemnitee (who hereby agrees to reimburse the Company) for all such amounts theretofore paid. If Indemnitee has commenced or commences legal proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction or commences arbitration to secure a determination that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification or Expense Advance, as provided in Section 4, any determination made by the Reviewing Party that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law shall not be binding, and Indemnitee shall not be required to reimburse the Company for any Expense Advance until a final determination is made with respect thereto (as to which all rights of appeal therefrom have been exhausted or have lapsed). Indemnitee's obligation to reimburse the Company for Expense Advances shall be unsecured and no interest shall be charged thereon.
Expense Advances
(d) . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any Proceeding relating in whole or in part to an Indemnifiable Event or in defense of any issue or matter therein, Indemnitee shall be indemnified by the Company hereunder against all Expenses incurred in connection therewith.
Mandatory Indemnification
(e) . If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of Expenses, but not, however, for the total amount thereof, the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which Indemnitee is entitled.
Partial Indemnification
(f) . No indemnification pursuant to this Agreement shall be paid by the Company:
Prohibited Indemnification
 
(i) on account of any Proceeding in which a final and non-appealable judgment is rendered against Indemnitee for an accounting of profits made from the purchase or sale by Indemnitee of securities of Covidien plc pursuant to the provisions of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act or similar provisions of any federal, state, or local laws;
(ii) if a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and non-appealable judgment, shall determine that such indemnification is not permitted under applicable law;
(iii) on account of any Proceeding relating to an Indemnifiable Event as to which the Indemnitee has been convicted of a crime constituting a felony under the laws of the jurisdiction where the criminal action had been brought (or, where a jurisdiction does not classify any crime as a felony, a crime for which Indemnitee is sentenced to death or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year);
(iv) on account of any Proceeding brought by Covidien plc or any of its subsidiaries against Indemnitee; or
(v) on account of any Proceeding relating to an Indemnifiable Event described in clause (iii) of the definition thereof that is initiated after the sixth anniversary of the Transaction Time.
 
(a) Prior to any Change in Control, the reviewing party (the "Reviewing Party") shall be any appropriate person or body consisting of a member or members of the Board or any other person or body appointed by the Board who is not a party to the particular Proceeding with respect to which Indemnitee is seeking indemnification; after a Change in Control, the Independent Counsel referred to below shall become the Reviewing Party. With respect to all matters arising after a Change in Control concerning the rights of Indemnitee to indemnity payments and Expense Advances under this Agreement or any other agreement to which the Company or any of its Affiliates is a party or under applicable law or the Company Bye-Laws or the Covidien plc Articles of Association now or hereafter in effect relating to indemnification for Indemnifiable Events, the Company and Covidien plc shall seek legal advice only from independent counsel ("Independent Counsel") selected by Indemnitee and approved by Covidien plc (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), and who has not otherwise performed services for the Company, Covidien plc or the Indemnitee (other than in connection with indemnification matters) within the last five years. The Independent Counsel shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing the Company, Covidien plc or Indemnitee in an action to determine
 
Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement. Such counsel, among other things, shall render its written opinion to the Company, Covidien plc and Indemnitee as to whether and to what extent the Indemnitee should be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law. In doing so, the Independent Counsel may consult with (and rely upon) counsel in any appropriate jurisdiction (e.g., Bermuda or Ireland) who would qualify as Independent Counsel ("Local Counsel"). The Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees of the Independent Counsel and the Local Counsel and to indemnify fully such counsel against any and all expenses (including attorneys' fees), claims, liabilities, loss, and damages arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the engagement of Independent Counsel or the Local Counsel pursuant hereto.
(b) Prior to making written demand on the Company for indemnification pursuant to Section 4(a) or making a request for Expense Advance pursuant to Section 2(c), Indemnitee shall (i) seek such indemnification or Expense Advance, as applicable, under any applicable insurance policy and (ii) request that Covidien plc consider in its discretion whether to make such indemnification or Expense Advance, as applicable. Upon any such request by Indemnitee of Covidien plc, Covidien plc shall consider whether to make such indemnification or Expense Advance, as applicable, based on the facts and circumstances related to the request. Covidien plc may require, as a condition to making any indemnification or Expense Advance, as applicable, that Indemnitee enter into an agreement providing for such indemnification or Expense Advance, as applicable, to be made subject to substantially the same terms and conditions applicable to an indemnification or Expense Advance, as applicable, by the Company hereunder (including, without limitation, conditioning any Expense Advance upon delivery to Covidien plc of an undertaking of the type described in clause (i) of the proviso to Section 2(c)). In the event indemnification or Expense Advance, as applicable, is not received pursuant to an insurance policy, or from Covidien plc, within 5 business days of the later of Indemnitee's request of the insurer and Indemnitee's request of Covidien plc as provided in the first sentence of this Section 3(b), Indemnitee may make written demand on the Company for indemnification pursuant to Section 4(a) or make a request for Expense Advance pursuant to Section 2(c), as applicable.
 
(a) . Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification of Expenses, and shall receive payment thereof, from the Company in accordance with this Agreement as soon as practicable after Indemnitee has made written demand on the Company for indemnification, unless the Reviewing Party has given a written opinion to the Company that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under applicable law.
Indemnification Payment
(b) . (i) Regardless of any action by the Reviewing Party, if Indemnitee has not received full indemnification or Expense Advance to which Indemnitee is entitled hereunder within thirty days after making a demand or request in accordance with Section 4(a) or Section 2(c), as applicable (a "Nonpayment"), Indemnitee shall have
Adjudication or Arbitration
 
the right to enforce its indemnification rights under this Agreement by commencing litigation in any federal or state court located in New York County, State of New York (a "New York Court") having subject matter jurisdiction thereof seeking an initial determination by the court or by challenging any determination by the Reviewing Party or any aspect thereof. Any determination by the Reviewing Party not challenged by Indemnitee in any such litigation shall be binding on the Company, Covidien plc and Indemnitee. The remedy provided for in this Section 4 shall be in addition to any other remedies available to Indemnitee at law or in equity. The Company, Covidien plc and Indemnitee hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (A) agree that any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be brought only in a New York Court and not in any other court in the United States or in any other country, (B) consent to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the New York Court for purposes of any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, (C) waive any objection to the laying of venue of any such action or proceeding in the New York Court, and (D) waive, and agree not to plead or to make, any claim that any such action or proceeding brought in the New York Court has been brought in an improper or inconvenient forum.
(ii) Alternatively, in the case of a Nonpayment, Indemnitee, at his option, may seek an award in arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association.
(iii) In the event that a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 4(a) or 2(c) of this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification or Expense Advance, any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 4(b) shall be conducted in all respects as a trial, or arbitration, on the merits, and Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of that adverse determination. In any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 4(b) the Company shall have the burden of proving Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses, as the case may be. If Indemnitee commences a judicial proceeding or arbitration pursuant to this Section 4(b), Indemnitee shall not be required to reimburse the Company for any advances pursuant to Section 2(c) until a final determination is made with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification (as to which all rights of appeal have been exhausted or lapsed).
de novo
(iv) In the event that Indemnitee, pursuant to this Section 4(b), seeks a judicial adjudication of or an award in arbitration to enforce his rights under, or to recover damages for breach of, this Agreement, and it is determined in said judicial adjudication or arbitration that Indemnitee is entitled to receive all of the indemnification or advancement of Expenses sought, Indemnitee shall be entitled to recover from the Company, and shall be indemnified by the Company against, any and all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him in such judicial adjudication or arbitration. If it shall be determined in said judicial adjudication
 
or arbitration that Indemnitee is entitled to receive part but not all of the indemnification or advancement of Expenses sought, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to recover from the Company, and shall be indemnified by the Company against, any and all Expenses reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection with such judicial adjudication or arbitration.
(c) . (i) It shall be a defense to any action brought by Indemnitee against the Company to enforce this Agreement that it is not permissible under applicable law for the Company to indemnify Indemnitee for the amount claimed.
Defense to Indemnification, Burden of Proof, and Presumptions
(ii) In connection with any action or any determination by the Reviewing Party or otherwise as to whether Indemnitee is entitled to be indemnified hereunder, the burden of proving such a defense or determination shall be on the Company.
(iii) Neither the failure of the Reviewing Party to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action by Indemnitee that indemnification of the Indemnitee is proper under the circumstances because Indemnitee has met the standard of conduct set forth in applicable law, nor an actual determination by the Reviewing Party that the Indemnitee had not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall, of itself, be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
(iv) For purposes of this Agreement, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the termination of any claim, action, suit, or proceeding, by judgment, order, settlement (whether with or without court approval), conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere, or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that Indemnitee did not meet any particular standard of conduct or have any particular belief or that a court has determined that indemnification is not permitted by applicable law.
(v) For purposes of any determination of good faith, Indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in good faith if Indemnitee's action is based on the records of books of account of any Enterprise, including financial statements, or on information supplied to Indemnitee by the officers of such Enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for such Enterprise or on information or records given or reports made to such Enterprise by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected by such Enterprise. The provisions of this Section 4(c)(v) shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the other circumstances in which Indemnitee may be deemed or found to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in applicable law.
 
(vi) The knowledge and/or actions, or failure to act, of any other director, trustee, partner, managing member, fiduciary, officer, agent or employee of any Enterprise shall not be imputed to Indemnitee for purposes of determining any right to indemnification under this Agreement.
(vii) The Company shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Agreement that the procedures or presumptions of this Agreement are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any court or before any arbitrator that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Agreement.
 
(a) for indemnification or advance payment of Expenses under any agreement to which the Company or any of its Affiliates is a party (other than this Agreement) or under applicable law or the Company Bye-Laws or the Covidien plc Articles of Association now or hereafter in effect relating to indemnification or advance payment of Expenses for Indemnifiable Events (it being specified, for the avoidance of doubt, that this clause (a) shall not be deemed to provide Indemnitee with a right to the indemnification or advance payment of Expenses being sought in such action), and/or
(b) for recovery under directors' and officers' liability insurance policies maintained by Covidien plc,
but, in either case, only in the event that Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be entitled to such indemnification or expense advance or insurance recovery, as the case may be. In addition, the Company shall, if so requested by Indemnitee, advance the foregoing Expenses and any Expenses incurred in any action brought pursuant to Section 4 to Indemnitee, subject to and in accordance with Section 2(c).
 
(a) . Promptly after receipt by Indemnitee of notice of the commencement of any Proceeding, Indemnitee shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the Company under this Agreement, notify the Company and Covidien plc of the commencement thereof; but the omission so to notify the Company and Covidien plc will not relieve the Company from any liability that it may have to Indemnitee, except as provided in Section 6(c).
Notice
 
(b) . With respect to any Proceeding as to which Indemnitee notifies the Company and Covidien plc of the commencement thereof, the Company will be entitled to participate in the Proceeding at its own expense and except as otherwise provided below, to the extent the Company so wishes, it may assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to Indemnitee. After notice from the Company to Indemnitee of its election to assume the defense of any Proceeding, the Company shall not be liable to Indemnitee under this Agreement or otherwise for any Expenses subsequently incurred by Indemnitee in connection with the defense of such Proceeding other than reasonable costs of investigation or as otherwise provided below. Indemnitee shall have the right to employ legal counsel in such Proceeding, but all Expenses related thereto incurred after notice from the Company of its assumption of the defense shall be at Indemnitee's expense unless: (i) the employment of legal counsel by Indemnitee has been authorized by the Company, (ii) Indemnitee has reasonably determined that there may be a conflict of interest between Indemnitee and the Company in the defense of the Proceeding, (iii) after a Change in Control, the employment of counsel by Indemnitee has been approved by the Independent Counsel, or (iv) the Company shall not in fact have employed counsel to assume the defense of such Proceeding, in each of which cases all Expenses of the Proceeding shall be borne by the Company. The Company shall not be entitled to assume the defense of any Proceeding (x) brought by or on behalf of Covidien plc or the Company, (y) as to which Indemnitee shall have made the determination provided for in (ii) above or (z) after a Change in Control (it being specified, for the avoidance of doubt, that the Company may assume defense of any such proceeding described in this sentence with Indemnitee's consent, provided that any such consent shall not affect the rights of Indemnitee under the foregoing provisions of this Section 6(b)).
Defense
(c) . The Company shall not be liable to indemnify Indemnitee under this Agreement or otherwise for any amounts paid in settlement of any Proceeding effected without the Company's written consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld; provided, however, that if a Change in Control has occurred, the Company shall be liable for indemnification of Indemnitee for amounts paid in settlement if the Independent Counsel has approved the settlement. The Company shall not settle any Proceeding in any manner that would impose any penalty or limitation on Indemnitee without Indemnitee's written consent. The Company shall not be liable to indemnify the Indemnitee under this Agreement with regard to any judicial award if the Company was not given a reasonable and timely opportunity, at its expense, to participate in the defense of such action; the Company's liability hereunder shall not be excused if assumption of the defense of the Proceeding by the Company was barred by this Agreement.
Settlement of Claims
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Covidien Ltd.
Cherrywood Business Park, Block G, First Floor
Loughlinstown, Co. Dublin, Ireland
Attention: Secretary
And to Covidien plc at:
Covidien plc
Cherrywood Business Park, Block G, First Floor
Loughlinstown, Co. Dublin, Ireland
Attention: Secretary
And to Indemnitee at:
Notice of change of address shall be effective only when given in accordance with this Section. All notices complying with this Section shall be deemed to have been received on the date of hand delivery or on the third business day after mailing.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed and delivered this Agreement as the day specified above.
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
EXECUTION VERSION
Published CUSIP Number: 22303MAB5
 
 
 
 
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED FIVE-YEAR SENIOR CREDIT AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") dated as of June 4, 2009, among COVIDIEN INTERNATIONAL FINANCE S.A., a Luxembourg company (the ""), COVIDIEN LTD., a Bermuda company (""), COVIDIEN PLC, an Irish company (""), the LENDERS, and CITIBANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Borrower
Covidien Ltd.
Holdco
The Borrower, Covidien Ltd. and the Lenders are party to the Five-Year Senior Credit Agreement (Healthcare Businesses) dated as of April 25, 2007, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Five-Year Senior Credit Agreement (Healthcare Businesses) dated as of November 6, 2007 (the "").
Original Credit Agreement
Covidien Ltd. intends to consummate a series of transactions which will result in the common shareholders of Covidien Ltd. becoming the ordinary shareholders of Holdco and Covidien Ltd. becoming a Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary of Holdco. Such transactions are more particularly described in Covidien Ltd.'s Form Pre 14 A filed February 6, 2009 (the "");
Irish Transaction
In connection with the Irish Transaction, the Borrower and Covidien Ltd. have requested that the Lenders agree to certain amendments to the Original Credit Agreement;
Such amendments require the consent of all Lenders and all Lenders consented to the amendments in Amendment No. 2 to Five-Year Senior Credit Agreement, dated as of March 27, 2009 among the Borrower, Covidien Ltd., the Lenders party thereto and the Administrative Agent ("");
Amendment No. 2
The parties hereto agree to amend and restate the Original Credit Agreement to reflect such amendments as follows:
As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Section 1.01 Defined Terms.
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, means that such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" on any date means the amount of "Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income" of Holdco and its Subsidiaries as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter of Holdco prior to such date of determination determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income
 
"" means Citibank, in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
"" means the office address, facsimile number, electronic mail address, telephone number and account information set forth on Schedule 10.01 with respect to the Administrative Agent or such other address, facsimile number, electronic mail address, telephone number or account information as shall be designated by the Administrative Agent in a notice to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by or is under common control with the Person specified. For purposes of this definition, the term "" (including the terms "" and "") means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
control
controlling
under common control with
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) the Base Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus
Alternate Base Rate
 1
/
2
of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Base Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto.
Amendment No. 2
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the applicable CDS Spread; , if the CDS Spread is unavailable as of the applicable date of determination, the Borrower and the Lenders will negotiate in good faith to agree on an alternative method for establishing the Applicable Margin; provided, further if the Borrower and the Lenders are unable to negotiate on an alternate method within 30 days, the Applicable Margin shall be the "Applicable Cap" set forth on the Pricing Grid for the then applicable Index Debt Rating.
Applicable Margin
provided
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage (rounded to the ninth decimal) of the total Commitments in effect at any given time represented by such Lender's then applicable Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the outstanding principal amounts of the Loans made by the respective Lenders.
Applicable Percentage
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.04.
Approved Fund
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 10.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of Exhibit B or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
 
"" means the period from and including the Initial Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Maturity Date and the date of termination of the Commitments.
Availability Period
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by Citibank as its base rate or prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City.
Base Rate
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Borrower
"" means Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect.
Borrowing
"" means a request by the Borrower for a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
Borrowing Request
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market.
Business Day
provided
Business Day
"" means the rate per annum equal to the five-year credit default swap mid-rate spread of the Borrower (or of Holdco if such rate is not available for the Borrower), as provided by Markit Group Limited (or any successor thereto, or if Markit Group Limited or any successor thereto is no longer providing quotations of such spread, any other entity of recognized reputation then providing such quotations as reasonably selected by the Administrative Agent and notified to the Borrower and the Lenders) as of the close of business, New York time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of the applicable Interest Period; that the CDS Spread shall at no time be less than the rate per annum set forth on the Pricing Grid opposite the reference to the applicable Index Debt Rating under the heading "Applicable Floor" or greater than the rate per annum set forth on the Pricing Grid opposite the reference to the applicable Index Debt Rating under the heading "Applicable Cap" as of the applicable date of determination.
CDS Spread
provided
"" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of Section 9.03(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement.
Change in Law
"" means Citibank, N.A.
Citibank
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" means, with respect to each Lender at any time, the commitment of such Lender to make Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder at such time, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.07 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 10.04. The amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments as of the date hereof is $1,500,000,000.
Commitment
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.10(a)(ii).
Commitment Fee
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.15.
Communications
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.05(b).
Compensation Period
"" refers to the consolidation of accounts of Holdco and its consolidated Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated
"" means, for any fiscal period, Consolidated Net Income for such period plus the following, to the extent deducted in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (a) Consolidated Interest Expense, (b) income tax expense, (c) depreciation and amortization expense (d) any extraordinary expenses or losses, (e) losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business and losses from discontinued operations, (f) any losses on the retirement of debt identified in the Consolidated statements of cash flows and (g) any other nonrecurring or non-cash charges (including charges incurred with respect to the Transactions), and minus, to the extent included in calculating such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) any extraordinary income or gains, (b) gains on the sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business and gains from discontinued operations, (c) any gains on the retirement of debt identified in the Consolidated statements of cash flows and (d) any other nonrecurring or non-cash income, all as determined on a Consolidated basis. If during such period Holdco or any Subsidiary shall have made an acquisition, Consolidated EBITDA for such period shall be calculated after giving effect thereto as if such acquisition occurred on the first day of such period.
Consolidated EBITDA
pro forma
"" means, for any fiscal period (without duplication), (a) the Consolidated interest expense of Holdco and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period (b) if a Permitted Securitization Transaction outstanding during such period is accounted for as a sale of accounts receivable, chattel paper, general intangibles or the like under GAAP, the additional consolidated interest expense that would have accrued during such period had such Permitted Securitization Transaction been accounted for as a borrowing during such period, determined on a Consolidated basis.
Consolidated Interest Expense
plus
 
"" means, for any fiscal period, the Consolidated net income of Holdco for such period.
Consolidated Net Income
"" means, at any time, the total assets less all Intangible Assets appearing on the Consolidated balance sheet of Holdco as of the end of the most recently concluded fiscal quarter of Holdco.
Consolidated Tangible Assets
"" means, as of any date of determination, the aggregate amount of Debt of Holdco determined on a Consolidated basis, as of such date; that Guarantees shall be valued at the amount thereof, if any, reflected on the consolidated balance sheet of Holdco; , that if a Permitted Securitization Transaction is outstanding at such date and is accounted for as a sale of accounts receivable, chattel paper, general intangibles, or the like, under GAAP, Consolidated Total Debt determined as aforesaid shall be adjusted to include the additional Debt, determined on a consolidated basis as of such date, which would have been outstanding at such date had such Permitted Securitization Transaction been accounted for as a borrowing at such date; , , that Consolidated Total Debt shall not include Debt of a joint venture, partnership or similar entity which is Guaranteed by Holdco or a Consolidated Subsidiary by virtue of the joint venture, partnership or similar arrangement with respect to such entity or by operation of applicable law (and not otherwise) except to the extent that the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such excluded Debt at such date exceeds $50,000,000.
Consolidated Total Debt
provided
provided
further
provided
further
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Covidien Ltd.
"" of any Person means, at any date, without duplication, (a) the principal of all obligations of such Person for borrowed money; (b) the principal of all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments; (c) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services recorded on the books of such Person (except for (i) trade and similar accounts payable and accrued expenses, (ii) employee compensation, deferred compensation and pension obligations, and other obligations arising from employee benefit programs and agreements or other similar employment arrangements, (iii) obligations in respect of customer advances received and (iv) obligations in connection with earnout and holdback agreements, in each case in the ordinary course of business); (d) any obligation of such Person to reimburse the issuer of any letter of credit, performance bond, performance guaranty or bank guaranty issued for the account of such Person upon which, and only to the extent that, a drawing has been made (or such reimbursement obligation is otherwise not contingent) and such non-contingent obligation is not reimbursed within five Business Days; (e) the net capitalized amount of all obligations of such person as lessee which are capitalized on the books of such Person in accordance with GAAP; (f) all Debt of others secured by any Lien on property of such Person, whether or not the Debt secured thereby has been assumed, but only to the extent of the lesser of the face amount of the obligation or the fair market value of the assets so subject to the Lien; and (g) all Guarantees by such Person of Debt of others (except any Guarantor or any Subsidiary); provided that the term "" shall not include:
Debt
Debt
 
(A) Intercompany Debt (except that, for the purposes of Sections 5.10 and 5.11, Debt shall include Intercompany Debt); or
(B) obligations in respect of trade letters of credit or bank guaranties supporting trade and similar accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business, or
(C) Nonrecourse Debt.
"" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means, at any time, a Lender (i) that has failed for three or more Business Days to comply with its obligations under this Agreement to make a Loan (a "funding obligation"), (ii) that has notified the Administrative Agent, or has stated publicly, that it will not comply with any such funding obligation hereunder, or has defaulted on its funding obligations under any other loan agreement or credit agreement or other similar agreement, (iii) that has, for three or more Business Days, failed to confirm in writing to the Administrative Agent, in response to a written request of the Administrative Agent, that it will comply with its funding obligations hereunder, (iv) with respect to which a Lender Insolvency Event has occurred and is continuing or (v) that has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within three Business Days of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute; , that any determination that a Lender is a Defaulting Lender under clauses (i) through (v) above will be made by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion acting in good faith; that the Administrative Agent shall not unreasonably reject a request by the Borrower that a Lender be declared a Defaulting Lender. The Administrative Agent will promptly send to all parties hereto notice of any Lender being determined to be a Defaulting Lender.
Defaulting Lender
provided
however
provided
"" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or treasurer of Tyco Healthcare Group LP.
Designated Officer
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
dollars
$
"" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied or waived.
Effective Date
"" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, health, safety or Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of either Guarantor or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage,
Environmental Liability
 
treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" means any Person, trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code or Section 4001(b)(3) of ERISA.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) any "", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan; (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by either Guarantor or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA (other than payment of PBGC premiums) with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by either Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to the PBGC's intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (g) the receipt by either Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from either Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA; or (h) the failure to timely make any required contribution or premium payment in respect of any Plan or contribution in respect of any Multiemployer Plan.
ERISA Event
reportable event
accumulated funding deficiency
"" in respect of any Lender and for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal) in effect on such day and applicable to such Lender under Regulation D promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for determining such Lender's reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to "Eurocurrency liabilities", as in effect from time to time ("").
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
FRB Regulation D
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, means that such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the applicable LIBO Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
Eurodollar
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VI.
Event of Default
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of any Obligor
Excluded Taxes
 
hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income (other than Taxes withheld at the source) by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under Section 10.04(e)), any United States withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with Section 9.05(e) (except to the extent such failure is attributable to a Change in Law, except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from any Obligor with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 9.05(a).
"" means, for any day, the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means each of (i) the letter dated December 20, 2006 between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, (ii) the letter dated December 20, 2006 between the Borrower and the Global Coordinators and (iii) the letter dated March 24, 2009 between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Fee Letters
"" means Fitch, Inc.
Fitch
"" means, at any time, the rating published by Fitch of the Borrower's Index Debt or, if prior to the date that the initial Index Debt Ratings are available with respect to the Borrower, the ratings of the senior, unsecured long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of Covidien Ltd. or of Holdco if such rating is unavailable for Covidien Ltd., by Fitch.
Fitch Rating
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Lender
"" means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" means Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC in their respective capacities as global coordinators.
Global Coordinators
"" means the government of the United States of America or any political subdivision thereof, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other
Governmental Authority
 
entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.04(g).
Granting Lender
"" of or by any Person (the "") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Debt or other obligation of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Debt or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Debt or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Debt or obligation; , that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
provided
"" means each of Covidien Ltd. and Holdco.
Guarantor
"" means the Guarantor Assumption Agreement dated as of June 29, 2007 between the Initial Guarantor and Covidien Ltd.
Guarantor Assumption Agreement
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes.
Hazardous Materials
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Holdco
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of the Borrower that is not guaranteed by any other Person other than the Guarantors or subject to any other credit enhancement.
Index Debt
"" means the S&P Rating, the Moody's Rating and the Fitch Rating.
Index Debt Rating
"" means a change in the S&P Rating, the Moody's Rating or the Fitch Rating that results in a change from one Index Debt Rating category to another on the Pricing Grid in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1.01, each Index Debt Rating Change to be deemed to take effect on the date on which the relevant change in rating is first publicly announced by S&P, Moody's or Fitch, as the case may be.
Index Debt Rating Change
"" means April 25, 2007.
Initial Closing Date
 
"" means June 30, 2007.
Initial Effective Date
"" means Tyco International Ltd., a Bermuda company.
Initial Guarantor
"" means, at any date, the amount (if any) stated under the heading "Goodwill and Other Intangible assets, net" or under any other heading relating to intangible assets separately listed, in each case, on the face of a balance sheet of Holdco prepared on a Consolidated basis as of such date.
Intangible Assets
"" means (i) indebtedness of either Guarantor owed to a Subsidiary and (ii) indebtedness of a Subsidiary owed to either Guarantor or another Subsidiary.
Intercompany Debt
"" means a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.06.
Interest Election Request
"" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan, the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part; that, if an Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing is of more than three months' duration, each day within such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period shall also be an Interest Payment Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
"" means with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the date that is one, two, three or six months thereafter, as the Borrower may elect, upon notice received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, or such other period as requested by the Borrower and agreed to by all the Lenders in accordance with Section 2.03(b); , that
Interest Period
provided
(i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
(ii) any Interest Period of one or more whole months that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period; and
(iii) the Borrower may not select any Interest Period that may end after the Maturity Date.
For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto.
Irish Transaction
"" means that (i) a Lender or its Parent Company is insolvent, or is generally unable to pay its debts as they become due, or admits in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due, or makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or (ii) such Lender or its Parent Company is the subject of a bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, liquidation or similar proceeding, or a receiver, trustee, conservator, intervenor or sequestrator or the like has been appointed for such Lender or its Parent Company, or such Lender or its Parent Company has taken any action in furtherance of or indicating its consent to or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment.
Lender Insolvency Event
"" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption.
Lenders
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the British Bankers Association London Interbank Offered Rate (""), as it is published by Reuters or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations of BBA LIBOR, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $10,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
BBA LIBOR
LIBO Rate
"" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset, including the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement.
Lien
"" means this Agreement, each Note (if any), the Guarantor Assumption Agreement, the Fee Letters and each Subsidiary Guaranty (if any).
Loan Documents
"" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the Consolidated financial condition, business or operations of Holdco and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Obligors to perform their obligations under the Loan Documents or (c) the rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders under the Loan Documents.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" means Debt (other than Loans or other Debt under this Agreement) of any one or more of Holdco and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $50,000,000.
Material Debt
"" means April 25, 2012.
Maturity Date
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor to its business of rating debt securities.
Moody's
"" means, at any time, the rating published by Moody's of the Borrower's Index Debt or, if prior to the date that the initial Index Debt Ratings are available with respect to the Borrower, the ratings of the senior, unsecured long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of Covidien Ltd. or of Holdco if such rating is unavailable for Covidien Ltd., by Moody's.
Moody's Rating
"" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means, at any time, all Debt of Subsidiaries (and all other Persons which are consolidated on Holdco's financial statements in accordance with GAAP (such Subsidiaries or other Persons a "")) of Holdco's outstanding at such time incurred on terms that recourse may be had to such Consolidated Person only by enforcing the lender's default remedies with respect to specific assets which constitute collateral security for such Debt and not by way of action against such Consolidated Person (nor against Holdco or such other Consolidated Person of Holdco) as a general obligor in respect of such Debt (subject to, for the avoidance of doubt, customary exceptions contained in non-recourse financings to the non-recourse nature of the obligations thereunder).
Nonrecourse Debt
Consolidated Person
"" means (i) a promissory note substantially in the form of Exhibit A made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, to the extent requested by such Lender pursuant to Section 2.08(e) and (ii) any promissory note made by the Borrower pursuant to the Original Credit Agreement.
Note
"" means the Borrower and the Guarantors.
Obligors
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto.
Original Credit Agreement
"" means any and all present or future, stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies (together with any addition to tax, penalty, fine or interest thereon) arising from any payment made under any Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, any Loan Document.
Other Taxes
"" means, with respect to a Lender, the bank holding company (as defined in Federal Reserve Board Regulation Y), if any, of such Lender, and/or any Person owning, beneficially or of record, directly or indirectly, a majority of the shares of such Lender.
Parent Company
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.04.
Participant
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
"" means any sale or sales of any accounts receivable, general intangibles, chattel paper or other financial assets and related rights and assets of Holdco and/or any of its Subsidiaries, and financing secured by the assets so sold, pursuant to which Holdco and its Subsidiaries realize aggregate net proceeds of not more than $250,000,000, including, without limitation, any revolving purchase(s) of such assets where the maximum aggregate uncollected purchase price (exclusive of any deferred purchase price) therefor does not exceed $250,000,000.
Permitted Securitization Transaction
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.15.
Platform
"" means any preferred and/or redeemable capital stock of either Guarantor or any Subsidiary, as the case may be, that, by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible or for which it is exchangeable at the option of the holder thereof), or upon the happening of any event, matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or redeemable at the option of the holder, in whole or in part, on or prior to the Maturity Date.
Preferred Stock
"" means the Pricing Grid and the conventions for determining pricing as set forth on Schedule 1.01.
Pricing Grid
"" means, with respect to any financing, any instrument or agreement amending, restating, supplementing, extending, renewing, refunding, refinancing, replacing or otherwise modifying, in whole or in part, the documents governing such financing (and "" shall have a correlative meaning).
Refinancing
Refinance
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.04.
Register
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means any action, suit or proceeding or investigation before any court, arbitrator or other governmental body against either Guarantor or any of their respective
Reportable Action
 
Subsidiaries or any ERISA Event, in each case in which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse determination that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
"" means, at any time, Lenders (not including the Borrower or any of its Affiliates) having aggregate Applicable Percentages in excess of 50% at such time.
Required Lenders
"" means any of the following: (i) the Chief Executive Officer, President, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or Secretary of Covidien Ltd. (ii) the Chief Executive Officer, President, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or Secretary of the Borrower or a Managing Director of the Borrower or (iii) the Chief Executive Officer, President, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or Secretary of Holdco.
Responsible Officer
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Loans at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor to its business of rating debt securities.
S&P
"" means, at any time, the rating published by S&P of the Borrower's Index Debt or, if prior to the date that the initial Index Debt Ratings are available with respect to the Borrower, the ratings of the senior, unsecured long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of Covidien Ltd., or of Holdco if such rating is unavailable for Covidien Ltd., by S&P.
S&P Rating
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
"" means, at any date, any Subsidiary which, including its subsidiaries, meets any of the following conditions:
Significant Subsidiary
(i) the proportionate share attributable to such Subsidiary of the total assets of Holdco (after intercompany eliminations) exceeds 15% of the total assets of Holdco, determined on a Consolidated basis as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year; or
(ii) Holdco's and its Subsidiaries' equity in the income of such Subsidiary from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles exceeds 15% of Consolidated income of Holdco from continuing operations before income taxes, any loss on the retirement of debt, extraordinary items, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles, and before any impairment charges, determined for the most recently completed fiscal year.
For the avoidance of doubt, each of the Borrower and Covidien Ltd. shall at all times be deemed a "Significant Subsidiary".
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.04(g).
SPC
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, any capital stock or equity securities of or other ownership interests in such Person.
Stock
"" means, with respect to any Person, options, warrants, calls or other rights entered into or issued by such Person to acquire any Stock of, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for Stock of, such Person.
Stock Equivalents
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person.
subsidiary
"" means any subsidiary of Covidien Ltd. or Holdco.
Subsidiary
"" means each Subsidiary that has executed a Subsidiary Guaranty pursuant to Section 5.12.
Subsidiary Guarantor
"" means a guaranty entered into by a Subsidiary in substantially the form of Exhibit D, with any such modifications to such form as may be necessary or advisable and customary under the local law of the jurisdiction of organization of the relevant Subsidiary, in the judgment of the Obligors
Subsidiary Guaranty
.
"" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed or asserted by any Governmental Authority, together with any addition to tax, penalty, fine or interest thereon.
Taxes
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Obligors of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, the borrowing of Loans and the use of the proceeds thereof.
Transactions
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.10(a)(i).
Upfront Fee
"" means any Consolidated Subsidiary all of the shares of capital stock or other ownership interests of which (except directors' qualifying shares and investments by foreign nationals mandated by applicable law) are at the time beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by Holdco.
Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary
"" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
 
. For purposes of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, Loans or Borrowings may be classified and referred to by Type (e.g., a "" or an "").
Section 1.02 Classification of Loans and Borrowings
Eurodollar Loan
ABR Borrowing
. With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
Section 1.03 Terms Generally
The definitions of terms herein and therein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "", "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "". The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "", "" and "", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear and (e) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
include
includes
including
without limitation
will
shall
herein
hereof
hereunder
asset
property
. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision, regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then (i) the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such provision to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders) and (ii) such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
Section 1.04 Accounting Terms; GAAP
provided
. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (i) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (ii) the total Revolving
Section 2.01 Commitments
 
Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Loans. The Obligors and the Lenders acknowledge and agree that any Loans outstanding under the Original Credit Agreement as of the Effective Date shall be deemed made pursuant to the terms hereof, shall be subject to and governed by the terms and conditions hereof and shall be considered Loans under this Agreement.
Section 2.02 Loans and Borrowings.
(a) Each Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their then applicable respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder.
(b) Subject to Section 9.03, each Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurodollar Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurodollar Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or result in any obligations of the Borrower to pay additional amounts under Section 9.03 or 9.05.
provided
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurodollar Borrowing, and at the time each ABR Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 (except that any such Borrowing may be in the aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments). Borrowings of more than one Type may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not be more than a total of 10 Eurodollar Borrowings outstanding at the same time.
provided
.
Section 2.03 Requests for Borrowings
(a) To request a Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone, facsimile or electronic mail (i) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing (except as provided in Section 2.03(b)) or (ii) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and if made telephonically, shall be confirmed promptly, by hand delivery, facsimile or electronic mail of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent, and be executed by a Managing Director of the Borrower or another authorized borrowing representative of the Borrower, as notified by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent from time to time. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
 
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing;
(iv) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term ""; and
Interest Period
(v) the location and number of the Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.05.
If no election as to the Type of Borrowing is specified, then the requested Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
(b) The Borrower may request a Eurodollar Borrowing having an Interest Period other than one, two, three or six months in duration as provided in the definition of "" by notifying the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, four Business Days prior to the requested date of such Borrowing having such Interest Period, whereupon the Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Lenders of such request and determine whether the requested Interest Period is acceptable to all of them; and not later than 8:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Business Day after receiving such request from the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower whether or not the requested Interest Period has been agreed to by all the Lenders. If such requested Interest Period is so approved by all of the Lenders, the Borrower may thereafter from time to time elect to make Borrowing Requests under Section 2.03(a) and Interest Election Requests under Section 2.06(c) designating such Interest Period, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders have elected to revoke such approval.
Interest Period
Section 2.04 [Intentionally Omitted].
Section 2.05 Funding of Borrowings.
(a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 1:00 p.m., New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in Section 4.02 (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Borrowing, Section 4.01), the Administrative Agent will make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of the Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent in New York City or (ii) wire transfer
 
of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to the Administrative Agent in the applicable Borrowing Request.
(b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, or by 12:00 p.m. New York City time on the proposed date of such Borrowing, in the case of ABR Borrowings, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender did not make available such Lender's share of such Borrowing, then such Lender shall forthwith on demand pay to the Administrative Agent the amount thereof in immediately available funds, together with interest thereon for the period from the date such amount was made available by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower to the date such amount is recovered by the Administrative Agent (the "") at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Effective Rate from time to time in effect plus the Administrative Agent's standard processing fee for interbank compensation. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in the applicable Borrowing. If such Lender does not pay such amount forthwith upon the Administrative Agent's demand therefor, the Administrative Agent may make a demand therefor upon the Borrower, and the Borrower shall pay such amount to the Administrative Agent, together with the interest thereon for the Compensation Period at a rate per annum equal to the rate of interest applicable to the applicable Borrowing. Nothing herein shall be deemed to relieve any Lender from its obligation to fulfill its Commitment or to prejudice any rights which the Administrative Agent or the Borrower may have against any Lender as a result of any default by such Lender hereunder.
Compensation Period
Section 2.06 Interest Elections.
(a) Each Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing.
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone, facsimile or electronic mail by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if the Borrower were requesting a Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and, if made telephonically, shall be confirmed promptly in a signed notice by hand delivery, facsimile or electronic mail to
 
the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent.
(c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "", subject to Section 2.03(b).
Interest Period
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(e) If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurodollar Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default under clause (a) or (b) of Article VI has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower, then, so long as such Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurodollar Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
Section 2.07 Termination and Reduction of Commitments.
(a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date.
 
(b) The Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.09, the total Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the total Commitments.
provided
(c) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof, that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
provided
(d) The Borrower may terminate the unused amount of the Commitment of a Defaulting Lender upon not less than three (3) Business Days' prior notice to the Administrative Agent (which will promptly notify the Lenders thereof), and in such event the provisions of Section 2.13(b) will apply to all amounts thereafter paid by the Borrower for the account of such Defaulting Lender under this Agreement (whether on account of principal, interest, fees, indemnity or other amounts), provided that such termination will not be deemed to be a waiver or release of any claim the Borrower, the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender.
Section 2.08 Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt.
(a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Loan on the Maturity Date.
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
 
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents.
provided
(e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a Note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns). Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such Note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 10.04) be represented by one or more Notes payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such Note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
Section 2.09 Prepayment of Loans.
(a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section.
(b) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed in a signed notice sent by facsimile or electronic mail) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment, or (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid that, if a notice of optional prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.07(c), then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.07(c). Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02(c). Each prepayment of a Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.11 and break funding payments to the extent required by Section 9.04.
provided
Section 2.10 Fees.
(a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent the following fees:
(i) for the account of each Lender which has delivered to the Administrative Agent an executed counterpart of Amendment No. 2, on the Effective Date, an upfront fee in an amount equal to the product of (x) such Lender's Commitment amount, multiplied by (y) 0.05% (the "").
Upfront Fee
 
(ii) for the account of each Lender, a commitment fee, which shall accrue on the daily amount of the then applicable unused Commitment of such Lender during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates, at the rate per annum set forth on the Pricing Grid opposite the reference to the applicable Index Debt Rating under the heading "Applicable Commitment Fee Rate" (the ""); that, if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such Commitment Fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure. Commitment Fees accrued through and including the last Business Day of March, June, September and December of each year shall be payable on each such last day, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand.
Commitment Fee
provided
provided
(b) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent and the Global Coordinators, for their own accounts, the fees payable in the amounts and at the times agreed in the Fee Letters. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
(c) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent for distribution, in the case of Upfront Fees and Commitment Fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
(d) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, during such period as a Lender is a Defaulting Lender, such Defaulting Lender will not be entitled to any fees accruing during such period pursuant to Section 2.10(a)(ii) (without prejudice to the rights of the Lenders other than Defaulting Lenders in respect of fees under such Section).
Section 2.11 Interest.
(a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate.
(b) The Loans comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing shall bear interest at the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Margin.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
 
(d) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and upon termination of the Commitments; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurodollar Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
provided
Section 2.12 Calculation of Interest and Fees.
(a) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Base Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(b) All fees hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
Section 2.13 Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs.
(a) The Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest or fees, or of amounts payable under Section 9.03, 9.04 or 9.05, or otherwise) prior to 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon; that no amount shall be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day if the Borrower provides the Administrative Agent with written confirmation of a Federal Reserve Bank reference number no later than 4:00 p.m. on the date when due. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at the Administrative Agent's Office, except that payments pursuant to Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05 and 10.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall be made in dollars in New York, New York.
provided
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder,
 
such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties.
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Loans or other obligations hereunder resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of its Loans and accrued interest thereon or such other obligations greater than its pro rata share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans and such other obligations of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments that shall be equitable so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans and other amounts owing them; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). The Borrower and each Guarantor each consent to the foregoing and each agree, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower and each Guarantor rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower or either Guarantor in the amount of such participation.
provided
(d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(b) or 2.13(d), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
 
Each Obligor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
. Each Obligor is a company duly organized or formed and validly existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization or formation. Each Obligor has all corporate powers and all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted, except to the extent that failure to have any such power or governmental license, authorization, consent or approval could not, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.01 Organization; Powers
. The Transactions are within such Obligor's corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and, if required, stockholder action. This Agreement and each other Loan Document to which such Obligor is a party has been duly executed and delivered by such Obligor and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Obligor, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
Section 3.02 Authorization; Enforceability
. The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b) will not violate, contravene, or constitute a default under any provision of (i) any applicable law or regulation, (ii) the charter, by-laws or other organizational or constitutional documents of such Obligor, (iii) any order, judgment, decree or injunction of any Governmental Authority, (iv) any agreement or instrument evidencing or governing Debt of such Obligor, except for any contravention or default under any such agreement or instrument evidencing or governing such Debt in an aggregate principal amount, individually or in the aggregate for all such agreements or instruments in respect of which there is a contravention or default, not in excess of $25,000,000 or (v) any other material agreement or instrument binding upon such Obligor or its assets.
Section 3.03 Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts
Section 3.04 Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change.
(a) Covidien Ltd. has heretofore furnished to the Administrative Agent its Consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, shareholders equity and cash flows, as and for the fiscal year ended September 26, 2008, reported on by Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent public accountants. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position and results of operations and cash flows of Covidien Ltd. as of such date and for such period in accordance with GAAP.
 
(b) Since September 26, 2008, there has been no material adverse change in the consolidated financial condition, business or operations of Covidien Ltd. and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Section 3.05 Litigation and Environmental Matters.
(a) There are no actions, suits, investigations or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Obligors, threatened against or affecting Holdco or any of its Subsidiaries (i) as to which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse determination which could, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, other than the matters described in, prior to June 29, 2007, the Initial Guarantor's filings of Forms 10, 10K, 10Q or 8K, and as of and after June 29, 2007, Covidien Ltd.'s filings of Forms 10K, 10Q or 8K, in each case on or before the date hereof (the ""), and other than shareholders' derivative litigation or shareholders' class actions based on the same facts and circumstances as the Existing Litigation, or (ii) that could reasonably be expected to adversely affect the validity or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents or the Transactions.
Existing Litigation
(b) Except with respect to any matters that could not, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect and except for the matters described in, prior to June 29, 2007, the Initial Guarantor's filings of Forms 10, 10K, 10Q or 8K, and as of and after June 29, 2007, Covidien Ltd.'s filings of Forms 10K, 10Q or 8K, in each case on or before the date hereof, neither Guarantor nor any of their respective Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law or (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability.
. No Obligor is an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Section 3.06 Investment Company Status
. Each of Holdco and its Significant Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which Holdco or such Significant Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.07 Taxes
. No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. The present value of all accumulated benefit obligations of all
Section 3.08 ERISA
 
underfunded Plans (based on the assumptions used for purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87) did not, as of the date of the most recent financial statements reflecting such amounts, exceed the fair market value of the assets of all such underfunded Plans by an amount which could based upon the facts and circumstances existing at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
. All information heretofore furnished by or on behalf of the Obligors to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, when taken as a whole, does not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements contained herein or therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that with respect to projections and other forward-looking information, the Obligors represent and warrant only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time made, it being understood that projections and forward-looking information are subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the control of the Obligors and that no assurance can be given that such projections will be realized.
Section 3.09 Disclosure
provided
. Each of Holdco's Subsidiaries is duly organized or formed, validly existing and (to the extent such concept is applicable to it) in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization or formation, except where the failure to be so organized, existing or in good standing could not, based upon the facts and circumstances existing at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Each such Subsidiary has all legal powers and all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted, except to the extent that failure to have any such power or governmental license, authorization, consent or approval could not, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.10 Subsidiaries
. No Obligor is engaged principally or as one of its important activities in the business of buying or carrying margin stock within the meaning of Regulation U of the Board.
Section 3.11 Margin Regulations
. That Holdco and the Borrower (or any permitted successor pursuant to Section 5.08(a)) together comprise a "group" for the purposes of section 35 of the Irish Companies Act 1990.
Section 3.12 Group Companies
. This Agreement shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 10.02):
Section 4.01 Effective Date
 
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received on or before the date of this Agreement from each Obligor and the Administrative Agent either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include facsimile transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
(b) Amendment No. 2 shall have become effective.
. The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Section 4.02 Each Borrowing
(a) The representations and warranties of the Obligors set forth in Article III of this Agreement (other than Section 3.04, Section 3.05(a)(i) or (b), or Section 3.09) or any other Loan Document, or which are contained in any certificate or notice delivered at any time by any Obligor under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing, or if any such representation or warranty was made as of a specific date, such representation and warranty was true and correct in all material respects on and as of such date.
(b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
(c) The Borrower shall have delivered a Borrowing Request in accordance with Section 2.03.
Each Borrowing Request shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Obligors on the date of such Borrowing Request and the date of the Borrowing requested thereunder as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
From and after the Effective Date, until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable under the Loan Documents shall have been paid in full, Holdco (and the Borrower and/or Covidien Ltd., where applicable) covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
. Holdco will furnish to the Administrative Agent (which, except as otherwise provided below with respect to subsections (a), (b) or (e), the Administrative Agent shall promptly furnish to each Lender):
Section 5.01 Financial Statements and Other Information
(a) within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of Holdco, its audited Consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all reported on by Deloitte & Touche LLP or other
 
independent public accountants of internationally recognized standing in a manner complying with the applicable rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC;
(b) (i) within 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of Holdco, its Consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and the related statements of operations and cash flows for the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of the previous fiscal year, all certified as to GAAP (subject to the absence of footnotes, audit and normal year-end adjustments) on behalf of Holdco by the chief financial officer or the chief accounting officer of Holdco or a Designated Officer and (ii) as and when filed with the SEC, for any of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of Holdco, the statement of income of Holdco for such fiscal quarter, certified as to GAAP (subject to the absence of footnotes, audit and normal year-end adjustments) on behalf of Holdco by the chief financial officer or the chief accounting officer of Holdco or a Designated Officer;
(c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate on behalf of Holdco signed by the chief financial officer or the chief accounting officer of Holdco or a Designated Officer (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, and (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating whether Holdco was in compliance with Section 5.09;
(d) within five Business Days after any Responsible Officer obtains knowledge of any Default, if such Default is then continuing, a certificate on behalf of Holdco signed by a Responsible Officer of Holdco or a Designated Officer setting forth, in reasonable detail, the nature thereof and the action which Holdco is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto;
(e) promptly upon the filing thereof, copies of all final registration statements (other than the exhibits thereto and any registration statements on Form S-8 or its equivalent), final reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K (or their equivalents) and proxy statements which Covidien Ltd., Holdco or the Borrower shall have filed with the SEC;
(f) promptly upon any Responsible Officer obtaining knowledge of the commencement of any Reportable Action, a certificate on behalf of Holdco specifying the nature of such Reportable Action and what action Holdco or the applicable Subsidiary is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto; and
(g) from time to time, upon reasonable notice, such other information regarding the financial position or business of Holdco and its Subsidiaries, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as any Lender through the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
Information required to be delivered pursuant to subsections (a), (b) or (e) above may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date
 
(i) on which Holdco posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on Holdco's website on the Internet at www.covidien.com, or at sec.gov/edaux/searches.htm; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on Holdco's behalf, or delivered to the Administrative Agent by Holdco in accordance with Section 10.15.
. Each of Covidien Ltd. and Holdco will:
Section 5.02 Existence; Conduct of Business
(a) not engage in any material business other than the holding of stock and other investments in its Subsidiaries and activities reasonably related thereto;
(b) cause the Borrower and subsidiaries of the Borrower to not engage in any business other than businesses of the same general type as conducted by the subsidiaries of Covidien Ltd. as of the Initial Effective Date, or which are related thereto or extensions thereof, and other than businesses which are not in the aggregate material to Holdco and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; and
(c) preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect, and will cause each Significant Subsidiary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect (i) their respective legal existence and (ii) their respective rights, privileges and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of business, unless in the case of either the failure of either Guarantor to comply with subclause (c)(ii) of this Section 5.02 or the failure of a Significant Subsidiary to comply with clause (c) of this Section 5.02, such failure could not, based upon the facts and circumstances existing at the time, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
that nothing in this Section 5.02 shall prohibit any transaction permitted by Section 5.08.
provided
. Each Guarantor will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and (b) maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by and commercially available to companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations, except in the case of each of clause (a) and (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not, based upon the facts and circumstances existing at the time, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 5.03 Maintenance of Properties; Insurance
. Each Guarantor will keep, and will cause each Consolidated Subsidiary to keep, proper books of record and account in which true and correct entries shall be made of its business transactions and activities so that financial statements of such Guarantor that fairly present its business transactions and activities can be properly prepared in accordance with GAAP. Each Guarantor will, and will cause each Significant Subsidiary to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or by any Lender through the Administrative Agent, upon reasonable prior notice, at all reasonable times and as and to the extent permitted by applicable law and regulation, and at the
Section 5.04 Books and Records; Inspection Rights
 
Administrative Agent's or such Lender's expense, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances, accounts and condition with its officers, employees (in the presence of its officers) and independent accountants (in the presence of its officers); that (i) such designated representatives shall be reasonably acceptable to the Borrower, shall agree to any reasonable confidentiality obligations proposed by the Borrower, and shall follow the guidelines and procedures generally imposed upon like visitors to Borrower's facilities and (ii) unless a Default shall have occurred and be continuing, such visits and inspections shall occur not more than once in any Fiscal Year.
provided
. Each Guarantor will, and will cause each Significant Subsidiary to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so could not, based upon the facts and circumstances existing at the time, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 5.05 Compliance with Laws
. The proceeds of each Borrowing made under this Agreement will be used by the Borrower for working capital, capital expenditures and other lawful corporate purposes of the Borrower, including to repay other Debt of Holdco and its Subsidiaries. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X.
Section 5.06 Use of Proceeds
. Each Guarantor will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, except:
Section 5.07 Liens
(a) any Lien existing on any asset on the Initial Closing Date;
(b) any Lien on any asset securing the payment of all or part of the purchase price of such asset upon the acquisition thereof by any Guarantor or a Subsidiary or securing Debt (including any obligation as lessee incurred under a capital lease) incurred or assumed by any Guarantor or a Subsidiary prior to, at the time of or within one year after such acquisition (or in the case of real property, the completion of construction (including any improvements on an existing property) or the commencement of full operation of such asset or property, whichever is later), which Debt is incurred or assumed for the purpose of financing all or part of the cost of acquiring such asset or, in the case of real property, construction or improvements thereon; , that in the case of any such acquisition, construction or improvement, the Lien shall not apply to any asset theretofore owned by any Guarantor or a Subsidiary, other than assets so acquired, constructed or improved;
provided
(c) any Lien existing on any asset or Stock of any Person at the time such Person is merged or consolidated with or into any Guarantor or a Subsidiary which Lien was not created in contemplation of such event;
(d) any Lien existing on any asset at the time of acquisition thereof by any Guarantor or a Subsidiary, which Lien was not created in contemplation of such acquisition;
 
(e) any Lien arising out of the Refinancing of any Debt secured by any Lien permitted by any of the subsections (a) through (d) of this Section 5.07, that the principal amount of Debt is not increased (except as grossed-up for the customary fees and expenses incurred in connection with such Refinancing and except as a result of the capitalization or accretion of interest) and is not secured by any additional assets, except as provided in the last sentence of this Section 5.07;
provided
(f) any Lien to secure Intercompany Debt;
(g) sales of accounts receivable or promissory notes to factors or other third-parties in the ordinary course of business for purposes of collection;
(h) any Lien in favor of any country or any political subdivision of any country (or any department, agency or instrumentality thereof) securing obligations arising in connection with partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract, statute, rule or regulation or securing obligations incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price (including the cost of installation thereof or, in the case of real property, the cost of construction or improvement or installation of personal property thereon) of the asset subject to such Lien (including, but not limited to, any Lien incurred in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue or similar financings);
(i) Liens arising in the ordinary course of its business which (i) do not secure Debt, and (ii) do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of its assets or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of its business;
(j) any Lien securing only Nonrecourse Debt;
(k) Liens incurred and pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, old age pensions, unemployment insurance or other social security legislation, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA;
(l) Liens created pursuant to a Permitted Securitization Transactions;
(m) Liens for taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies which are not yet due or are payable without penalty or of which the amount, applicability or validity is being contested by any Guarantor or a Subsidiary whose property is subject thereto in good faith by appropriate proceedings as to which adequate reserves are being maintained;
(n) Liens securing judgments that have not resulted in the occurrence of an Event of Default under clause (k) of Article VI in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed $100,000,000; and
(o) Liens not otherwise permitted by the foregoing clauses (a) through (n) of this Section 5.07 securing Debt or other obligations (without duplication) in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed an amount equal to 7.5% of Consolidated Tangible Assets at such time.
 
It is understood that any Lien permitted to exist on any asset pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.07 may attach to the proceeds of such asset and, with respect to Liens permitted pursuant to subsections (a), (b), (d), (e) (but only with respect to the Refinancing of Debt secured by a Lien permitted pursuant to subsections (a), (b), (d)) or (f) of this Section 5.07, may attach to an asset acquired in the ordinary course of business as a replacement of such former asset.
Section 5.08 Fundamental Changes
.
(a) No Obligor will consolidate, amalgamate or merge with or into any other Person or sell, lease or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of the Consolidated assets to any other Person, unless
(i) such Obligor is the surviving corporation, or the Person (if other than such Obligor) formed by such consolidation or amalgamation or into which such Obligor is merged or amalgamated, or the Person which acquires by sale or other transfer, or which leases, all or substantially all of the assets of such Obligor (any such Person, the ""), shall be organized and existing under the laws of (A) in the case of a Successor to the Borrower, Luxembourg or the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, (B) in the case of a Successor to either Guarantor, Bermuda, Ireland or the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia or, subject to the receipt of an opinion of Swiss counsel acceptable in form and substance to the Administrative Agent, Switzerland and shall expressly assume, in a writing executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent for delivery to each of the Lenders, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Loans and the performance of the other obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents on the part of such Obligor to be performed or observed, as fully as if such Successor were originally named as such Obligor in this Agreement or such other Loan Document; and
Successor
(ii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(iii) such Obligor has delivered to the Administrative Agent a certificate on behalf of such Obligor signed by one of its Responsible Officers and an opinion of counsel, each stating that all conditions provided in this Section 5.08 relating to such transaction have been satisfied.
Upon the satisfaction (or waiver) of the conditions set forth in this Section 5.08(a), a Successor to the Borrower or the applicable Guarantor shall succeed, and may exercise every right and power of, the Borrower or the applicable Guarantor shall under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents with the same effect as if such Successor had been originally named as the Borrower, Covidien Ltd. or Holdco herein, and the Borrower or the applicable Guarantor shall, as the case may be, shall be relieved of and released from its obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
 
(b) The Borrower shall not be incorporated in any jurisdiction other than Luxembourg or the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia and neither Guarantor shall be incorporated in any other jurisdiction other than Bermuda, Ireland, the United States or any state thereof or the District of Columbia or, subject to the receipt of an opinion of Swiss counsel acceptable in form and substance to the Administrative Agent, Switzerland.
.
Section 5.09 Financial Covenant
(a) . Holdco will not permit at any time the ratio of (x) Consolidated Total Debt at such time to (y) Consolidated EBITDA for the then most recently concluded period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of Holdco to exceed 3.50 to 1.00.
Leverage
. Holdco will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly, create or otherwise cause or suffer to exist or become effective any encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Subsidiary, other than the Borrower, to (a) pay dividends or make any other distributions on its capital stock or any other interest or participation in its profits, owned by Holdco or any Subsidiary, or pay any Debt owed by any Subsidiary to Holdco or any Subsidiary, (b) make loans or advances to Holdco or any Subsidiary or (c) transfer any of its properties or assets to Holdco or any Subsidiary (or, solely in the case of clause (xii) hereof, any other Consolidated Person in respect of such Nonrecourse Debt), except for such encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of:
Section 5.10 Limitation on Restrictions on Subsidiary Dividends and Other Distributions
(i) applicable laws and regulations, judgments and orders and other legal requirements, agreements with non-U.S. governments with respect to assets or businesses located in their jurisdiction, or condemnation or eminent domain proceedings,
(ii) this Agreement,
(iii) (A) customary provisions restricting subletting or assignment of any lease governing a leasehold interest of any Guarantor or a Subsidiary, or (B) customary restrictions imposed on the transfer of trademarked, copyrighted or patented materials or provisions in agreements that restrict the assignment of such agreements or any rights thereunder,
(iv) provisions contained in the instruments evidencing or governing Debt or other obligations or agreements, in each case existing on the date hereof,
(vi) provisions contained in instruments evidencing or governing Debt or other obligations or agreements of any Person, in each case, at the time such Person (A) shall be merged or consolidated with or into any Guarantor or any Subsidiary, (B) shall sell, transfer, assign, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of such Person's assets to any Guarantor or a Subsidiary, or (C) otherwise becomes a Subsidiary, that in the case of clause (A), (B) or (C), such Debt, obligation or agreement was not incurred or entered into, or any such provisions adopted, in contemplation of such transaction,
provided
 
(vii) provisions contained in Refinancings, so long as such provisions are, in the good faith determination of Holdco's board of directors, not materially more restrictive than those contained in the respective instruments so Refinanced,
(viii) provisions contained in any instrument evidencing or governing Debt or other obligations of a Subsidiary Guarantor,
(ix) any encumbrances and restrictions with respect to a Subsidiary imposed in connection with an agreement which has been entered into for the sale or disposition of such Subsidiary or its assets, such sale or disposition otherwise complies with this Agreement,
provided
(x) the subordination (pursuant to its terms) in right and priority of payment of any Debt owed by any Subsidiary (the "") to Holdco or any other Subsidiary, to any other Debt of such Indebted Subsidiary, that (A) such Debt is permitted under this Agreement and (B) Holdco's board of directors has determined, in good faith, at the time of the creation of such encumbrance or restriction, that such encumbrance or restriction could not, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence at the time, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect,
Indebted Subsidiary
provided
(xi) provisions governing Preferred Stock issued by a Subsidiary,
(xii) provisions contained in instruments or agreements evidencing or governing (A) Nonrecourse Debt or (B) other Debt of a Subsidiary incurred to finance the acquisition or construction of fixed or capital assets to the extent, in the case of sub-clause (B), such instrument or agreement prohibits transfers of the assets financed with such Debt, and
(xiii) provisions contained in debt instruments, obligations or other agreements of any Subsidiary which are not otherwise permitted pursuant to clauses (i) through (xii) of this Section 5.10, that the aggregate investment of Holdco in all such Subsidiaries (determined in accordance with GAAP) shall at no time exceed the greater of (a) $300,000,000 or (b) 3% of Consolidated Tangible Assets.
provided
The provisions of this Section 5.10 shall not prohibit (x) Liens not prohibited by Section 5.07 or (y) restrictions on the sale or other disposition of any property securing Debt of any Subsidiary, such Debt is otherwise permitted by this Agreement.
provided
. Each Guarantor will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly, pay any funds to or for the account of, make any investment (whether by acquisition of Stock or indebtedness, by loan, advance, transfer of property, guarantee or other agreement to pay, purchase or service, directly or indirectly, any Debt, or otherwise) in, lease, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any assets, tangible or intangible, to, or participate in, or effect any transaction in connection with any joint enterprise or other joint arrangement with, any Affiliate (collectively, ""); ,
Section 5.11 Transactions with Affiliates
Affiliate Transactions
provided
 
howeverthat the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.11 shall not prohibit either Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries from:
,
(i) engaging in any Affiliate Transaction between or among (x) the Guarantors, (y) either Guarantor and any Subsidiary or Subsidiaries or (z) two or more Subsidiaries,
(ii) declaring or paying any dividends and distributions on any shares of either Guarantor's Stock, including any dividend or distribution payable in shares of either Guarantor's Stock or Stock Equivalents,
(iii) making any payments on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement or acquisition of (x) any shares of either Guarantor's Stock or (y) any option, warrant or other right to acquire shares of either Guarantor's Stock, including any payment payable in shares of either Guarantor's Stock or Stock Equivalents,
(iv) declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on Stock of any Subsidiary held by either Guarantor or another Subsidiary,
(v) making sales to or purchases from any Affiliate and, in connection therewith, extending credit or making payments, or from making payments for services rendered by any Affiliate, if such sales or purchases are made or such services are rendered in the ordinary course of business and on terms and conditions at least as favorable to such Guarantor or such Subsidiary as the terms and conditions which such Guarantor would reasonably expect to be obtained in a similar transaction with a Person which is not an Affiliate at such time,
(vi) making payments of principal, interest and premium on any Debt of such Guarantor or such Subsidiary held by an Affiliate if the terms of such Debt are at least as favorable to such Guarantor or such Subsidiary as the terms which such Guarantor would reasonably expect to have been obtained at the time of the creation of such Debt from a lender which was not an Affiliate,
(vii) participating in, or effecting any transaction in connection with, any joint enterprise or other joint arrangement with any Affiliate if such Guarantor or such Subsidiary participates in the ordinary course of its business and on a basis no less advantageous than the basis on which such Affiliate participates,
(viii) paying or granting reasonable compensation, indemnities, reimbursements and benefits to any director, officer, employee or agent of either Guarantor or any Subsidiary, or
(ix) engaging in any Affiliate Transaction not otherwise addressed in subsections (i) through (ix) of this Section 5.11, the terms of which are not less favorable to such Guarantor or such Subsidiary than those that such Guarantor or such
 
Subsidiary would reasonably expect to be obtained in a comparable transaction at such time with a Person which is not an Affiliate.
. The Borrower will cause each Subsidiary of the Borrower that now or hereafter Guarantees any Material Debt of the Borrower for or in respect of borrowed money (other than Debt of the Borrower to any other Subsidiary) to promptly thereafter (and in any event within 30 days of executing such Guarantee) cause such Subsidiary to (a) become a Subsidiary Guarantor by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a Subsidiary Guaranty, and (b) deliver to the Administrative Agent documents of the types referred to in Section 4.01(d) and favorable opinions of counsel to such Subsidiary (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the Subsidiary Guaranty of such Subsidiary), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Section 5.12 Subsidiary Guarantors
If any of the following events ("") shall occur:
Events of Default
(a) the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
(b) the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five Business Days;
(c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of any Obligor or any Subsidiary in or in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or any amendment or modification hereof or thereof or waiver hereunder or thereunder, or in any report, certificate or financial statement furnished pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any amendment or modification hereof or thereof or waiver hereunder or thereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made;
(d) any Obligor shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in (i) Section 5.06, 5.07, 5.08, 5.10, 5.11 or 5.12 and such failure shall not be remedied within five Business Days after any Responsible Officer obtains knowledge thereof or (ii) Section 5.09;
(e) any Obligor shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement or the other Loan Documents (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of
 
30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to Holdco (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender);
(f) any Obligor or any Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment in respect of any Material Debt, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue beyond any applicable grace period (but in any event, in the case of interest, fees or other amounts other than principal, for a period of at least five Business Days);
(g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Debt becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity; provided that this clause (g) shall not apply to (i) secured Debt that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Debt, (ii) any conversion, repurchase or redemption of any Material Debt scheduled by the terms thereof to occur on a particular date, any conversion of any Material Debt initiated by a holder thereof pursuant to the terms thereof or any optional prepayment, repurchase or redemption of any Material Debt, in each case not subject to any contingent event or condition related to the creditworthiness, financial performance or financial condition of any Obligor or any Subsidiary or (iii) any repurchase or redemption of any Material Debt pursuant to any put option exercised by the holder of such Material Debt; provided that such put option is exercisable at times specified in the terms of the Material Debt and not by its terms solely as a result of any contingent event or condition related to the creditworthiness, financial performance or financial condition of any Guarantor or the applicable Subsidiaries;
(h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, winding up, reorganization, examinership or other relief in respect of any Obligor or any Significant Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law of any jurisdiction now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, examiner, conservator or similar official for any Obligor or any Significant Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its respective assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
(i) any Obligor or any Significant Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, examinership or other relief under any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law of any jurisdiction now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, examiner, conservator or similar official for any Obligor or any Significant Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its respective assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
(j) any Obligor or any Significant Subsidiary shall admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
 
(k) one or more judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $30,000,000 (after deducting amounts covered by insurance, except to the extent that the insurer providing such insurance has declined such coverage or indemnification) shall be rendered against any Obligor or any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and, within 60 days after entry thereof, such judgment or order is not discharged or execution thereof stayed pending appeal, or within 60 days after the expiration of any such stay, such judgment or order is not discharged;
(l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(m) (x) any person or group of persons (within the meaning of Section 13 or 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the SEC under said Act) of 40% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock of Holdco; or (y) on the last day of any period of twelve consecutive calendar months, a majority of members of the board of directors of Holdco shall no longer be composed of individuals (i) who were members of said board of directors on the first day of such twelve consecutive calendar month period or (ii) whose election or nomination to said board of directors was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of said board of directors;
(n) any Loan Document shall cease to be valid and enforceable against any Obligor or Subsidiary Guarantor party thereto (except for the termination of a Subsidiary Guaranty in accordance with its terms), or any Obligor or Subsidiary Guarantor shall so assert in writing; or
(o) (x) the Borrower (or any permitted successor pursuant to Section 5.08(a)) shall cease to be a Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary of Covidien Ltd.; or (y) Covidien Ltd. (or any permitted successor pursuant to Section 5.08(a)) shall cease to be a Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary of Holdco;
then, and in every such event (other than an event described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article with respect to the Borrower or either Guarantor), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, and thereupon the principal amount of all such outstanding Loans together with all such interest and other amounts so declared to be due and payable, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Obligors; and in case of any event described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article with respect to the Borrower or either Guarantor, the Commitments shall automatically
 
terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued under any Loan Document, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Obligors.
Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with Holdco or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for in Section 10.02), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to this Agreement, the other Loan Documents or applicable law, and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to Holdco or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Section 10.02) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement,
provided
 
warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Loan. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a commercial bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such commercial bank with an office in New York, New York. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above, provided that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be
 
made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this paragraph. The successor shall be consented to by the Borrower at all times other than during the existence of an Event of Default (which consent of the Borrower shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this paragraph). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and Section 10.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
The Lenders hereby irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent, at its option and in its discretion, to release any Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under such Subsidiary Guarantor's Subsidiary Guaranty (i) if such Person ceases to exist or to be a Subsidiary (or substantially contemporaneously with such release will cease to exist or to be a Subsidiary), in each case as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder, or (ii) otherwise in accordance with Section 4.06(b) of the relevant Subsidiary Guaranty.
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Global Coordinators, Joint Bookrunners or Joint Lead Arrangers listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent or a Lender hereunder.
. Each Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably, jointly and severally, guarantees the full and punctual payment when due (whether at stated maturity, by mandatory prepayment, by acceleration or otherwise) of the principal of
Section 8.01 The Guarantee
 
and interest on the Loans, the Notes and all other amounts whatsoever at any time or from time to time payable or becoming payable under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents. This is a continuing guarantee and a guarantee of payment and not merely of collection. Upon failure by the Borrower to pay punctually any such amount when due as aforesaid, each Guarantor shall forthwith on demand pay the amount not so paid at the place and in the manner specified in this Agreement.
. The obligations of the Guarantors hereunder shall be unconditional and absolute, and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall not be released, discharged or otherwise affected, at any time by:
Section 8.02 Guarantee Unconditional
(a) any extension, renewal, settlement, compromise, waiver or release in respect of any obligation of the Borrower under any Loan Document, by operation of law or otherwise;
(b) any modification or amendment of or supplement to any Loan Document;
(c) any release, impairment, non-perfection or invalidity of any direct or indirect security for any obligation of the Borrower under any Loan Document;
(d) any change in the corporate existence, structure or ownership of the Borrower, or any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization or other similar proceeding affecting the Borrower or its assets or any resulting release or discharge of any obligation of either Guarantor or the Borrower contained in any Loan Document;
(e) the existence of any claim, set-off or other rights which either Guarantor may have at any time against the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Person, whether in connection herewith or any unrelated transactions, that nothing herein shall prevent the assertion of any such claim by separate suit or compulsory counterclaim;
provided
(f) any invalidity or unenforceability relating to or against the Borrower for any reason of any Loan Document, or any provision of applicable law or regulation purporting to prohibit the payment by the Borrower, in the currency and funds and at the time and place specified herein, of any amount payable by it under any Loan Document; or
(g) any other act or omission to act or delay of any kind by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Person, or any other circumstance whatsoever which might, but for the provisions of this paragraph, constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor or surety.
. The guarantee and other agreements in this Article VIII shall remain in full force and effect until the Commitments shall have terminated and the principal of and interest on the Loans, the Notes and all other amounts whatsoever payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document shall have been finally paid in full. If at any time any payment of any such amount payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is rescinded or must be
Section 8.03 Discharge Only upon Payment in Full; Reimbursement in Certain Circumstances
 
otherwise restored or returned upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Borrower or otherwise, the Guarantors' obligations hereunder with respect to such payment shall be reinstated at such time as though such payment had been due but not made at such time.
. Each Guarantor irrevocably waives acceptance hereof, presentment, demand, protest and any notice not provided for herein, as well as any requirement that at any time any action be taken by any Person against the Borrower or any other Person.
Section 8.04 Waiver by the Guarantors
. Upon making any payment hereunder with respect to the Borrower, the Guarantors shall be subrogated to the rights of the payee against the Borrower with respect to such payment; that the Guarantors shall not enforce any payment by way of subrogation until all amounts of principal of and interest on the Loans and all other amounts payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document has been paid in full and the Commitments have been terminated.
Section 8.05 Subrogation
provided
. In the event that acceleration of the time for payment of any amount payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is stayed upon insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Borrower, all such amounts otherwise subject to acceleration under the terms of this Agreement shall nonetheless be payable by the Guarantors hereunder forthwith on demand by the Required Lenders.
Section 8.06 Stay of Acceleration
. If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing:
Section 9.01 Alternate Rate of Interest
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period; or
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period (together with any amounts payable pursuant to Section 9.03 or 9.05) will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or facsimile or electronic mail as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Borrowing to, or continuation of any Borrowing as, a Eurodollar Borrowing shall be ineffective and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing. In the case of clause (b) above, during any such period of suspension each Lender shall, from time to time upon request from the Borrower, certify its cost
 
of funds for each Interest Period to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent as soon as practicable (but in any event not later than 10 Business Days after any such request).
. Notwithstanding any other provision of any Loan Document, if any Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent (and provide to the Borrower an opinion of counsel to the effect) that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for such Lender or its lending office for Eurodollar Borrowings to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurodollar Loans or to fund or maintain Eurodollar Loans hereunder, (i) each Eurodollar Loan of such Lender will automatically, upon such demand, convert into an ABR Loan that bears interest at the rate set forth in Section 2.12(a) and (ii) the obligation of such Lender to make or continue, or to convert ABR Loans into, Eurodollar Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and such Lender that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist and such Lender shall make the ABR Loans in the amount and on the dates that it would have been requested to make Eurodollar Loans had no such suspension been in effect.
Section 9.02 Illegality
.
Section 9.03 Increased Costs
(a) If any Change in Law shall:
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender; or
(ii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition affecting any Loan Document or Eurodollar Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing has been to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise) (excluding any such increased costs or reduction in amount resulting from Taxes or Other Taxes, as to which Section 9.05 shall govern, or resulting from reserve commitments contemplated by Section 9.03(c)), then from time to time within 30 days of written demand therefor (subject to Section 9.06) the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of any Loan Document or the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time within 30 days of written demand therefor (subject to
 
Section 9.06) the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) At any time that any Lender is required to establish or maintain reserves in respect of its Eurodollar Loans under FRB Regulation D, such Lender may require the Borrower to pay, contemporaneously with each payment of interest on a Eurodollar Loan made by such Lender, additional interest on such Eurodollar Loan at a rate per annum determined by such Lender to be sufficient to compensate it for the cost to it of maintaining, or the reduction in its total return in respect of, such Eurodollar Loan, up to but not exceeding the excess of (i) (A) the applicable LIBO Rate divided by (B) one minus the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage, minus (ii) the applicable LIBO Rate. Any Lender wishing to require payment of such additional interest (x) shall so notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, in which case such additional interest on the Eurodollar Loans of such Lender shall be payable to such Lender at the time and place indicated at which interest otherwise is payable on such Eurodollar Loan, with respect to each Interest Period commencing at least three Business Days after the giving of such notice and (y) shall notify the Borrower at least five Business Days prior to each date on which interest is payable on the Eurodollar Loans of the amount then due it under this Section.
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 90 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor.
provided
. In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurodollar Loan on the date specified in any oral or written notice given pursuant hereto or (d) the assignment of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 10.04(e), then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event (including any loss or expense arising from the redeployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Eurodollar Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained, but excluding any loss of anticipated profits) within 10 days of written demand therefor (subject to Section 9.06).
Section 9.04 Break Funding Payments
.
Section 9.05 Taxes
(a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower under any Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; that if the Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or applicable
provided
 
Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) The Borrower shall pay and indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Administrative Agent and each Lender within 30 days after written demand therefor (subject to Section 9.06), for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes required to be paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower under any Loan Document (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes to a Governmental Authority by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, shall deliver to the Borrower the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(e) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of United States withholding tax with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate.
(f) If the Administrative Agent or a Lender determines, in its good faith judgment, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 9.05, it shall pay over such refund to the Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section 9.05 with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); provided that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by
 
the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
If any Lender or the Administrative Agent is claiming compensation under Section 9.03, 9.04 or 9.05, it shall deliver to the Administrative Agent, who shall deliver to the Borrower contemporaneously with the demand for payment, a certificate setting forth in reasonable detail the calculation of any additional amount or amounts to be paid to it hereunder and the basis used to determine such amounts and such certificate shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. In determining such amount, such Lender or the Administrative Agent may use any reasonable averaging and attribution methods. In any such certificate claiming compensation under Section 9.03(b), such Lender shall certify that the claim for additional amounts referred to therein is generally consistent with such Lender's treatment of similarly situated customers of such Lender whose transactions with such Lender are similarly affected by the change in circumstances giving rise to such payment, but such Lender shall not be required to disclose any confidential or proprietary information therein. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
Section 9.06 Matters Applicable to all Requests for Compensation.
If any Lender requests compensation under Section 9.03, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 9.05, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 9.03 or 9.05, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Section 9.07 Mitigation Obligations.
Section 10.01 Notices.
(a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone or by other means of communication (and subject to paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile or electronic mail, as follows:
 
Covidien International Finance S.A.
3b, boulevard du Prince Henri
L-1724 Luxembourg
Attn: Michelangelo Stefani
Tel: +352 266 379 3046
Fax: +352 266 379 92
email: michelangelo.stefani@covidien.com
if to Covidien Ltd.
Covidien Ltd.
c/o Covidien Plc
1st Floor, Block G
Cherrywood Science & Technology Park
Loughlinstown Co Dublin
Ireland
Phone: 353 1 4393000
 
Covidien Plc
1st Floor, Block G
Cherrywood Science & Technology Park
Loughlinstown Co Dublin
Ireland
Phone: 353 1 4393000
 
and
(iv) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or facsimile number or electronic mail address telephone number) set forth on Schedule 10.01 or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement or to such other address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number as shall be designated by such party in a notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
(b) Notices and other communications to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications. In addition to provisions of this Agreement expressly specifying that notices and other commitments may be delivered telephonically or electronically, each of the Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by
 
electronic communications; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
(c) Any party hereto may change its address or facsimile number or electronic mail address for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
(d) The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Borrowing Requests and Interest Election Requests) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower.
Section 10.02 Waivers; Amendments.
(a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or consent to any departure by any Obligor therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
(b) Neither this Agreement nor the Notes, or any Subsidiary Guaranty or any provision hereof or thereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Obligors, the Subsidiary Guarantors (to the extent applicable) and the Required Lenders or by the Obligors, the Subsidiary Guarantors (to the extent applicable) and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.13(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) release either Guarantor from its obligations under Article VIII or any Subsidiary Guarantor which is a Significant Subsidiary from its obligations under its Subsidiary Guaranty, without the written consent of each Lender, (vi) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of
provided
Required Lenders
 
Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under any Loan Document without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, during such period as a Lender is a Defaulting Lender, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, such Lender will not be entitled to vote in respect of amendments and waivers hereunder and the Commitment and the outstanding Loans or other extensions of credit of such Lender hereunder will not be taken into account in determining whether the Required Lenders have approved any such amendment or waiver (and the definition of "" will automatically be deemed modified accordingly for the duration of such period); , that any such amendment or waiver that would increase the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender, reduce the principal amount of any Loan of such Defaulting Lender or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable owing to such Defaulting Lender hereunder, postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan of such Defaulting Lender or any interest thereon, or any fees payable to such Defaulting Lender hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment of such Defaulting Lender, or alter the terms of this proviso, will require the consent of such Defaulting Lender.
provided
further
Required Lenders
provided
Section 10.03 Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
(a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Global Coordinators and their Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent, in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof and thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), and (ii) while a Default has occurred and is continuing, all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, including reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, or restructuring negotiations in respect of such Loans.
(b) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding (whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto) relating to (A) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (B) any Loan
Indemnitee
 
or the use of the proceeds therefrom, (C) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by Holdco or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to Holdco or any of its Subsidiaries; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee, as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment (y) resulted from a breach of the confidentiality provisions contained in Section 10.14 by such Indemnitee or (z) resulted from a dispute solely among the Lenders that does not arise from any Obligor's or Subsidiary Guarantor's breach of its obligations under any Loan Document or applicable law. If any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding is asserted against any Indemnitee, such Indemnitee shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law or regulation in the opinion of its counsel, notify the Borrower as soon as reasonably practicable, but the failure to so promptly notify the Borrower shall not affect the Borrower's obligations under this Section unless such failure materially prejudices the Borrower's right to participate in the contest of such claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding, as hereinafter provided. If requested by the Borrower in writing, such Indemnitee shall make reasonable good faith efforts to contest the validity, applicability and amount of such claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding and, except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or regulations or as would otherwise be unreasonable in the circumstances or contrary to the internal policies of the Indemnitee as generally applied, shall permit the Borrower to participate in such contest. Any Indemnitee that proposes to settle or compromise any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding for which the Borrower may be liable for payment of indemnity hereunder shall give the Borrower written notice of the terms of such proposed settlement or compromise reasonably in advance of settling or compromising such claim or proceeding and shall obtain the Borrower's prior written consent (not to be unreasonably withheld).
provided
(c) To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent or any Related Party thereof under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party acting for the Administrative Agent in connection with such capacity.
provided
(d) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the Transactions, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in paragraph (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications, electronic or other information
 
transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the Transactions.
(e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than 10 Business Days after written demand therefor.
Section 10.04 Successors and Assigns.
(a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that (i) other than as contemplated by Section 5.08, none of Covidien Ltd., Holdco or the Borrower may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by Covidien Ltd, Holdco or the Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees (other than a natural Person) all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) of:
(A) the Borrower, that no consent of the Borrower shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender, an Approved Fund or, if an Event of Default under clause (a), (b), (h), (i) or (j) of Article VI has occurred and is continuing, any other Person (other than a natural person); and
provided
(B) the Administrative Agent, that no consent of the Administrative Agent shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or for an assignment by a Lender to an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender.
provided
(ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
(A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment or Loans, the amount of the Commitment or Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, and the amount of the Commitment or Loans of the assigning Lender remaining after each such assignment (in each case
 
determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent), in each case shall not be less than $10,000,000 unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), that no such consent of the Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default under clause (a), (b), (h), (i) or (j) of Article VI has occurred and is continuing;
provided
(B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement; and
(C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500.
For the purposes of this Section 10.04(b), the term "" has the following meaning:
Approved Fund
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
(iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05 and 10.03). Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender, and the Note theretofore held by the assignor Lender shall be returned to the Borrower in exchange for a new Note, payable to the assignee Lender and reflecting its retained interest (if any) hereunder. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 10.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
(iv) The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses
 
of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
(c) (i) Any Lender may, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural Person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or subsidiaries) (each a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 10.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 9.03, 9.04 and 9.05 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 10.08 as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.13(c) as though it were a Lender.
Participant
provided
provided
(d) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Sections 9.03 or 9.05 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.05 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 9.05(e) as though it were a Lender.
 
(e) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including without limitation any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
(f) If (w) any Lender requests compensation under Section 9.03, (x) the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 9.05, (y) if any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder or (z) if any Lender refuses to consent to any amendment or waiver under this Agreement which pursuant to the terms of Section 10.02 requires the consent of all Lenders or all affected Lenders and with respect to which the Required Lenders shall have granted their consent, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained above in Section 10.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) such assigning Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (ii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 9.03 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 9.05, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
provided
(g) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (an "") the option to provide all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make pursuant to this Agreement; that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to fund any Loan, and (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to make all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof. Each party hereto hereby agrees that (i) neither the grant to any SPC nor the exercise by any SPC of such option shall increase the costs or expenses or otherwise increase or change the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (including its obligations under Section 9.03), (ii) no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement for which a Lender would be liable, and (iii) the Granting Lender shall for all purposes, including the approval of any amendment, waiver or other modification of any provision of any Loan Document, remain the lender of record hereunder. The making of a Loan by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such
Granting Lender
SPC
provided
 
Granting Lender. In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior debt of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, or liquidation proceeding under the laws of the United States or any State thereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without prior consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and with the payment of a processing fee of $3,500, assign all or any portion of its right to receive payment with respect to any Loan to the Granting Lender and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its funding of Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety or Guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC.
(h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender that is a Fund may create a security interest in all or any portion of the Loans owing to it and the Note, if any, held by it to the trustee for holders of obligations owed, or securities issued, by such Fund as security for such obligations or securities, that unless and until such trustee actually becomes a Lender in compliance with the other provisions of this Section 10.04, (i) no such pledge shall release the pledging Lender from any of its obligations under the Loan Documents and (ii) such trustee shall not be entitled to exercise any of the rights of a Lender under the Loan Documents even though such trustee may have acquired ownership rights with respect to the pledged interest through foreclosure or otherwise.
provided
. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Obligors herein and in the other Loan Documents and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is outstanding and unpaid and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05 and 10.03 and Article VII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any provision hereof or thereof.
Section 10.05 Survival
. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement replaces and supersedes the Original Credit Agreement, as amended through the Effective Date, in its entirety. As of the Effective Date this Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or
Section 10.06 Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
 
written, relating to the subject matter hereof or thereof. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of any other Loan Document, the provisions of this Agreement shall control; that the inclusion of supplemental rights or remedies in favor of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders in any other Loan Document shall not be deemed a conflict with this Agreement. Each Loan Document was drafted with the joint participation of the respective parties thereto and shall be construed neither against nor in favor of any party, but rather in accordance with the fair meaning thereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by facsimile shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
provided
. If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Section 10.07 Severability
. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, upon the making of the request, or the granting of the consent, if required under Article VI to authorize the Administrative Agent to declare the Loans due and payable, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower or either Guarantor against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower or either Guarantor now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents to such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower or either Guarantor may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or its Affiliates may have. Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
Section 10.08 Right of Setoff
provided
Section 10.09 Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process.
(a) This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
 
(b) Each Obligor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document against the Obligors or their respective properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(c) Each Obligor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(d) Each Obligor hereby irrevocably designates and appoints CT Corporation System, having an office on the date hereof at 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011 as its authorized agent, to accept and acknowledge on its behalf, service of any and all process which may be served in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (b) hereof in any Federal or New York State court sitting in New York City. Each Obligor represents and warrants that such agent has agreed in writing to accept such appointment and that a true copy of such designation and acceptance has been delivered to the Administrative Agent. If such agent shall cease so to act, each Obligor covenants and agrees to designate irrevocably and appoint without delay another such agent satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and to deliver promptly to the Administrative Agent evidence in writing of such other agent's acceptance of such appointment.
(e) Each Lender and the Administrative Agent irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 10.01.
(f) Nothing in this Agreement or any other Loan Document will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY).
Section 10.10 Waiver of Jury Trial
 
EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
. TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IF ANY OBLIGOR HAS OR HEREAFTER MAY ACQUIRE ANY IMMUNITY (SOVEREIGN OR OTHERWISE) FROM ANY LEGAL ACTION, SUIT OR PROCEEDING, FROM JURISDICTION OF ANY COURT OR FROM SET-OFF OR ANY LEGAL PROCESS (WHETHER SERVICE OR NOTICE, ATTACHMENT PRIOR TO JUDGMENT, ATTACHMENT IN AID OF EXECUTION OF JUDGMENT, EXECUTION OF JUDGMENT OR OTHERWISE) WITH RESPECT TO ITSELF OR ANY OF ITS PROPERTY, SUCH OBLIGOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES AND AGREES NOT TO PLEAD OR CLAIM SUCH IMMUNITY IN RESPECT OF ITS OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT. EACH OBLIGOR AGREES THAT THE WAIVERS SET FORTH ABOVE SHALL BE TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER THE FOREIGN SOVEREIGN IMMUNITIES ACT OF 1976 OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND ARE INTENDED TO BE IRREVOCABLE AND NOT SUBJECT TO WITHDRAWAL FOR PURPOSES OF SUCH ACT.
Section 10.11 Waiver of Immunities
. If, under any applicable law and whether pursuant to a judgment being made or registered against any Obligor or for any other reason, any payment under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, is made or satisfied in a currency (the "") other than that in which the relevant payment is due (the "") then, to the extent that the payment (when converted into the Required Currency at the rate of exchange on the date of payment or, if it is not practicable for the party entitled thereto (the "") to purchase the Required Currency with the Other Currency on the date of payment, at the rate of exchange as soon thereafter as it is practicable for it to do so) actually received by the Payee falls short of the amount due under the terms of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, such Obligor shall, to the extent permitted by law, as a separate and independent obligation, indemnify and hold harmless the Payee against the amount of such shortfall. For the purpose of this Section, "" means the rate at which the Payee is able on the relevant date to purchase the Required Currency with the Other Currency and shall take into account any premium and other costs of exchange.
Section 10.12 Judgment Currency
Other Currency
Required Currency
Payee
rate of exchange
. Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein and in the other Loan Documents are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement or any other Loan Document and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Section 10.13 Headings
. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below) and shall not use
Section 10.14 Confidentiality
 
the Information except for purposes relating directly to this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and the Transactions, except that Information may be disclosed by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (a) to their and their Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents whom they determine need to know such Information in connection with matters relating directly to this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and the Transactions, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential and the Administrative Agent or the applicable Lenders shall be responsible for breach of this Section by any such Person to whom it disclosed such Information), (b) to the extent requested by any governmental authority or regulatory agency (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or upon order of any court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, to the extent required by such order and not effectively stayed on appeal or otherwise, or as otherwise required by law; that in the case of any intended disclosure under this clause (c), the recipient thereof shall (unless otherwise required by applicable law) give Holdco not less than five Business Days' prior notice (or such shorter period as may, in the good faith discretion of the recipient, be reasonable under the circumstances or may be required by any court or agency under the circumstances), specifying the Information involved and stating such recipient's intention to disclose such Information (including the manner and extent of such disclosure) in order to allow Holdco an opportunity to seek an appropriate protective order, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies under this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement in writing to be bound by the provisions of this Section (and of which Holdco shall be a third party beneficiary) or in the case of a repurchase arrangement ("repo transaction") subject to an arrangement to be bound by provisions at least as restrictive as this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (iii) any rating agency or (iv) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar organization, (g) with the written consent of the Borrower referencing this Section 10.14, or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section, a breach of another confidentiality agreement to which the Administrative Agent or such Lender is a party or any other legal or fiduciary obligation of the Administrative Agent or such Lender or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower. For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from or on behalf of any Obligor or Subsidiary Guarantor relating to any Obligor or any Subsidiary Guarantor or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that the Administrative Agent or any Lender proves is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by any Obligor or any Subsidiary Guarantor from a source which is not, to the knowledge of the recipient, prohibited from disclosing such information by a confidentiality agreement or other legal or fiduciary obligation to the Obligors or Subsidiary Guarantors. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such
provided
Information
 
Person has taken normal and reasonable precautions and exercised due care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information. In addition to other remedies, the Obligors shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive and other equitable relief for breach of this Section 10.14.
.
Section 10.15 Electronic Communications
(a) Each Obligor hereby agrees that except to the extent provided in clause (i) of the final sentence of Section 5.01, it will provide to the Administrative Agent all information, documents or other materials that it is obligated to furnish to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, including, without limitation, all notices, requests, financial statements, financial and other reports, certificates and other information materials, but excluding any such communication that (i) relates to a request for a new, or a conversion of an existing, borrowing or other extension of credit (including any election of an interest rate or interest period relating thereto), (ii) relates to the payment of any principal or other amount due under this Agreement or any other Loan Document prior to the scheduled date therefor, (iii) provides notice of any Default or Event of Default, (iv) is required to be delivered to satisfy any condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement and/or any Borrowing hereunder or (v) initiates or responds to legal process (all such non-excluded information being referred to herein collectively as the "") by transmitting the Communications in an electronic/soft medium (provided such Communications contain any required signatures) in a format acceptable to the Administrative Agent to oploanswebadmin@citigroup.com (or such other e-mail address designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time).
Communications
(b) Each party hereto agrees that the Administrative Agent may make the Communications available to the Lenders by posting the Communications on IntraLinks or another relevant website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent) (the ""). Nothing in this Section 5.01 shall prejudice the right of the Administrative Agent to make the Communications available to the Lenders in any other manner specified in this Agreement.
Platform
(c) Each Obligor hereby acknowledges that certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders (i.e., Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to Obligors or their securities) (each, a ""). The Obligors hereby agree that (i) Communications that are to be made available on the Platform to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof, (ii) by marking Communications "PUBLIC," each Obligor shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to treat such Communications as either publicly available information or not material information (although it may be sensitive and proprietary) with respect to the Obligors or their securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws, (iii) all Communications marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Lender," and (iv) the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to treat any Communications that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Lender."
Public Lender
 
(d) Each Lender agrees that e-mail notice to it (at the address provided pursuant to the next sentence and deemed delivered as provided in the next paragraph) specifying that Communications have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such Communications to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement. Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Administrative Agent in writing (including by electronic communication) from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Lender to which the foregoing notice may be sent by electronic transmission and (ii) that the foregoing notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
(e) Each party hereto agrees that any electronic communication referred to in this Section 10.15 shall be deemed delivered upon the posting of a record of such communication (properly addressed to such party at the e-mail address provided to the Administrative Agent) as "sent" in the e-mail system of the sending party or, in the case of any such communication to the Administrative Agent, upon the posting of a record of such communication as "received" in the e-mail system of the Administrative Agent; that if such communication is not so received by any party during the normal business hours of the Administrative Agent, such communication shall be deemed delivered at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the Administrative Agent.
provided
(f) Each party hereto acknowledges that (i) the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and that there are confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution, (ii) the Communications and the Platform are provided "as is" and "as available," (iii) none of the Administrative Agent, its affiliates nor any of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, advisors or representatives (collectively, the "") warrants the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of the Communications or the Platform , and each Agent Party expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions in any Communications or the Platform, and (iv) no warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by any Agent Party in connection with any Communications or the Platform.
Agent Parties
. Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Obligors that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Obligors, which information includes the name and address of the Obligors and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Obligors in accordance with the Act.
Section 10.16 USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1.01
 
The Commitment Fee, and the Applicable Floor and Applicable Cap, shall be, at any time, the rate per annum set forth in the Pricing Grid opposite the Index Debt Rating of the Borrower by S&P, Moody's and Fitch; , that prior to the date that initial Index Debt Ratings are available from each of S&P, Moody's and Fitch with respect to the Borrower, the rating of the senior, unsecured long term indebtedness for borrowed money of Covidien Ltd. or of Holdco if such rating is unavailable for Covidien Ltd. ("Guarantor Debt") issued by S&P, Moody's and Fitch (which may be called the "corporate credit rating", "issuer rating", "issuer default rating", or some similar term) and not the Index Debt Rating shall be used to determine the Commitment Fee and Applicable Margin for Eurodollar Loans (and for such period all references in the body of this Agreement to an Index Debt Rating or a rating of Index Debt shall be deemed to be references instead to such ratings of the Guarantor Debt as applicable); , , that if the S&P Rating, the Moody's Rating and the Fitch Rating fall within different levels, then (i) if two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is one level higher or one level lower than the two same ratings, then the Commitment Fee, and the Applicable Floor and Applicable Cap, will be based on the two ratings at the same level, (ii) if two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is two or more levels above the two same ratings, then the Commitment Fee, and the Applicable Floor and Applicable Cap, will be based on the rating that is one level above the two same ratings, (iii) if two of the ratings are at the same level and the other rating is two or more levels below the two same ratings, then the Commitment Fee, and the Applicable
provided
however
provided
however
 
Floor and Applicable Cap, will be based on the rating that is one level below the two same ratings, and (iv) if each of the three ratings fall within different levels, then the Commitment Fee, and the Applicable Floor and Applicable Cap, will be determined based on the rating level that is in between the highest and the lowest ratings. If, at any time, a rating of the Borrower's Index Debt (or Guarantor Debt, if applicable) is available from only two of S&P, Moody's and Fitch, then the Commitment Fee, and the Applicable Floor and Applicable Cap, shall be based on the Index Debt Rating available from such two rating agencies. If the immediately preceding sentence is applicable and the two available ratings referred to in such preceding sentence fall within different levels, the Commitment Fee, and the Applicable Floor and Applicable Cap, shall be determined based on the higher rating and if the ratings differ by more than one level, the Commitment Fee, and the Applicable Floor and Applicable Cap, shall be determined based on the rating one level lower than the higher rating. If, at any time, a rating of the Borrower's Index Debt (or Guarantor Debt, if applicable as provided above) is available from only one of or none of S&P, Moody's, Fitch or any other nationally recognized statistical rating organization designated by the Borrower and approved in writing by the Required Lenders (an "Approved Agency"), then the Commitment Fee, and the Applicable Floor and Applicable Cap, for each period commencing during the 30 days following the time there ceased to be at least two such ratings available shall be the Commitment Fee, and the Applicable Floor and Applicable Cap, in effect immediately prior to such cessation. Thereafter, the rating to be used until ratings from at least two of S&P, Moody's, Fitch or such other Approved Agency become available shall be as agreed between the Borrower and the Required Lenders, and the Borrower and the Required Lenders shall use good faith efforts to reach such agreement within such 30-day period; provided, however, that if no such agreement is reached within such 30-day period, then the Commitment Fee, and the Applicable Floor and Applicable Cap, thereafter, until such agreement is reached, shall be (a) if any such rating has become unavailable as a result of S&P, Moody's, Fitch or any other Approved Agency ceasing its business as a rating agency, the Commitment Fee, and the Applicable Floor and Applicable Cap, in effect immediately prior to such cessation or (b) otherwise, the Commitment Fee, and the Applicable Floor and Applicable Cap, as set forth opposite the Index Debt Rating "(BBB-/Baa3/BBB- or lower)" on the Pricing Grid. If the rating of the Guarantor Debt is used to determine the Applicable Floor, Applicable Cap and Commitment Fee, the provisions set forth in the second proviso hereof through the end of this paragraph shall apply with respect to any split rating or lack of any rating of the Guarantor Debt to the same effect as such provisions apply to the Borrower's Index Debt.
 
SCHEDULE 2.01
 
SCHEDULE 10.01
Administrative Agent's Office
(For Payments and Borrowing Requests/Interest Election Requests):
Citibank, N.A.
2 Penn's Way
New Castle, DE 19720
Attention: Dennis Banfield
Tel: +302-894-6109
Fax: +212-994-0847
email: dennis1.banfield@citigroup.com
Account No.: 3042-4445
Account Name: Gen Corp Concentration
Ref: Tyco
ABA# 021000089
Other Notices as Administrative Agent:
Citibank, N.A.
2 Penn's Way
New Castle, DE 19720
Attention: Dennis Banfield
Tel: +1 302 894 6109
Fax: +1 212 994 0847
email: dennis1.banfield@citigroup.com
Other Lenders
UBS Loan Finance LLC
677 Washington Boulevard
Stamford, CT 06901
Attention: Brian Gross
Tel: +1 203 719 2814
Fax: +1 203 719 3888
email: brian.gross@ubs.com
Bank of America, N.A.
100 N Tryon Street
Charlotte, NC 28255
Attention: Richard Hardison (Credit)
Tel: +1 704 386 1185
Fax: +1 704 388 6002
email: Richard.c.hardison@bankofamerica.com
2001 Clayton Road
Concord, CA 94520
Attention: Lynne O. Famularcano (Operations)
Tel: +1 925 675 7659
Fax: +1 888 969 9230
email: erlinda.o.famularcano@bankofamerica.com
Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch
60 Wall Street
New York, NY, 10005
Attention: Frederick W. Laird (Credit)
Tel: +1 212 250 8215
Fax: +1 212 797 4344
email: frederick.laird@db.com
100 Plaza One
Jersey City, NJ, 07311-3901
Attention: Joe Cusmai (Loan Administration)
Tel: +1 201 593 2202
Fax: +1 201 593 2313
email: joe.cusmai@db.com
BNP Paribas
787 Seventh Avenue
New York, NY 10019
Attention: Rick Pace
Tel: +1 212 841-3266
Fax: +1 212 841-2747
email: rick.pace@americas.bnpparibas.com
Attention: Lawrence Magloire (Administrative contact)
Tel: +1 212 471-6645
Fax: +1 212 471-6603
email: lawrence.magloire@americas.bnpparibas.com
 
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc.
One Pierrepont Plaza, 7th Floor
300 Cadman Plaza West
Brooklyn, NY 11201
Attention: Erma Dell'Aquila/Marta Folio (Documentation)
Tel: +1 718-754-7286/7434
Fax: +1 718-754-7249/7250
email: docs4loans@morganstanley.com
Attention: Dmitrijs Nahajs/Merrie Wellesley (Loan Administration)
Tel: +1 718-754-4061 / 7287
Fax: +1 718 233 2140
email: Dmitrijs.Nahajs@morganstanley.com/
Merrie.Wellesley@morganstanley.com
William Street Commitment Corporation
30 Hudson Street, 17th Floor
Jersey City, NJ 07302
Attention: Michael Tanney (Loan Activity)
Tel: +1 212 357 9719
Fax: +1 212 256 4855
email: ficc-lstops-ny@gs.com
Attention: Pedro Ramirez (Financials, Amendments, Credit Documentation, Voting)
Tel: +1 917 343 8319
Fax: +1 212 428 1243
email: gsd.link@gs.com
Barclays Bank PLC
200 Park Avenue, 4th Floor
New York, NY, 10166
Attention: Nicholas Bell (Credit)
Tel: +1 212 412 4029
Fax: +1 212 412 7600
email: nicholas.bell@barcap.com
200 Cedar Knolls Road
Whippany, NJ 07981
Attention: Jan Becker (Administrative)
Tel: +1 973 576 3795
Fax: +1 973 576 3014
email: jan.becker@barcap.com
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
210 Park Avenue, 4th Floor
New York, NY 10017-2014
Attention: Anthony W. White (Credit)
Tel: +1 212 270 1051
Fax: +1 212 270 3279
email: anmony.w.white@jpmorgan.com
1111 Fannin, 10th Floor
Houston, TX 77002
Attention: Claudia Correa (Operations)
Tel: +1 713 750 2128
Fax: +1 713 750 2782
email: claudia.x.correa@jpmchase.com.
Covidien International Finance S.A.
3b, boulevard du Prince Henri
L-1724 Luxembourg
Attn: Michelangelo Stefani
Tel: +352 266 379 3046
Fax: +352 266 379 92
email: michelangelo.stefani@covidien.com
ABN Amro Bank N.V.
540 West Madison Street, Suite 2621
Chicago, IL 60661
Attention: Credit Administration
Fax: +1 617 737 3629
email: kymm.recht@abnamro.com
Attention: Loan Administration
Tel: +1 312 992 5152
Fax: +1 312 992 5157
Mizuho Corporate Bank (USA)
1251 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY, 10020
Attention: Vadim Mulodzhanov (Credit)
Tel: +1 212 282 3559
Fax: +1 212 282 4488
email: vadim.mulodzhanov@mizuhocbus.com
1800 Plaza Ten
Jersey City, NJ, 07311
Attention: Sophia Hwang (Operations)
Tel: +1 201 626 9416
Fax: +1 212 626 9941
email: hyunsook.hwang@mizuhocbus.com
 
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation
277 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10172
Attention: Kenji Irie (Credit)
Tel: +1 212 224-5366
Fax: +1 212 224-4384
email: Kenji_Irie@smbcgroup.com
Attention: Kristen M. Lee (Administrative)
Tel: +1 212 224-4314
Fax: +1 212 224-5197
email: KristenMyungHee_Lee@smbcgroup.com
Bayerische Landesbank, New York Branch
560 Lexington Avenue,
New York, NY 10022
Attention: Matthew DeCarlo (Credit)
Tel: +1 212 230 9036
Fax: +1 212 230 9166
email: mdecarlo@bayernlbny.com
Attention: Carol Dussie (Operations)
Tel: +1 212 310 9846
Fax: +1 212 310 9930
email: cdussie@bayernlbny.com
ING Capital LLC
1325 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY, 10019
Attention: James Patten (Credit)
Tel: +1 646 424 8613
Fax: +1 646 424 7229
email: james.patten@americas.ing.com
Attention: Barbara Moore (Operations)
Tel: +1 646 424 8242
Fax: +1 646 424 8251
email: barbara.moore@americas.ing.com
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, New York Branch
245 Park Avenue, 35th Floor
New York, NY 101675
Attention: Luca Sacchi (Credit)
Tel: +1 212 692 3130
Fax: +1 212 692 3178
email: luca.sacchi@intesasanpaolo.com
Attention: Robert Mancini (Operations)
 
Tel: +1 212 692 3163
Fax: +1 212 692 3178
email: robert.mancini@intesasanpaolo.com
The Bank of New York Mellon
1 Mellon Center - Room 4530
Pittsburgh, PA 15258-0001
Attention: Daniel J. Lenckos (Credit)
Tel: +1 412 234 0733
Fax: +1 412 236 1914
email: lenckos.dj@mellon.com
500 Ross Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15262
Attention: Frank Whitley (Operations)
Tel: +1 412 234 4087
Fax: +1 412 209 6145
Socit Gnrale
1221 Avenue of the Americas, 10th Floor
New York, NY 10020
Attention: Nigel Elvey (Credit)
Tel: +1 212 278 6516
Fax: +1 212 278 7862
email: nigel.elvey@sgcib.com
1221 Avenue of the Americas, 12th Floor
New York, NY 10020
Attention: Arlene Tellerman (Operations)
Tel: +1 212 278 6086
Fax: +1 212 278 7490
The Bank of Nova Scotia
1100 Louisiana Street, Suite 3000
Houston, TX 77002
Attention: Pat Brown (Credit)
Tel: +1 713 759 3439
Fax: +1 713 752 2425
email: Pat_Brown@scotiacapital.com
720 King St. west
2nd Floor, Toronto, Ontario
M5V-1T3
Attention: Jeannie Fan (Operations)
Tel: +1 212 225 5705
Fax: +1 212 225 5709
email: Jeannie_Fan@scotiacapital.com
 
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentina
1345 Avenue of the Americas, 45th Floor
New York, NY 10105
Attention: Jay Levit (Credit)
Tel: +1 212 728 1590
Fax: +1 212 333 2904
email: jay.levit@bbvany.com
Attention: Patricia Kunert (Operations)
Tel: +1 212 728 2396
Fax: +1 212 333 2926
email: patricia.kunert@bbvany.com
The Northern Trust Company
50 South LaSalle Street
Chicago, IL 60675
Attention: Reid Acord
Tel: +1 312 444 5676
Fax: +1 312 444 4906
Attention: Sharon Jackson
Tel: +1 312 630 1609
Fax: +1 312 630 1566
Westpac Banking Corporation
575 Fifth Avenue, 39th Floor
New York, NY 10017
Attention: Bradley Scammell (Credit)
Tel: +1 212 551 1915
Fax: +1 212 551 1995
email: bscammell@westpac.com.au
68-80 George St. Level 2
Parramatta, NSW 2150
Australia
Attention: GMO Nightshift Operations (Operations)
Tel: +612 9806 4022
Fax: +44 207 621 7608
email: peterhooper@westpac.oom.au
 
The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland
B2, Head Office
Lower Baggot Street,
Dublin 2, Ireland
Attention: Emer Haughey (Credit)
Tel: +353 1 604 4183
Fax: +353 1 604 4240
Attention: Orla Hoyne (Operations)
Tel: +353 1 604 4413
Fax: +353 1 604 4793
email: corporateloansadmin@boimail.com
 
EXHIBIT A
New York, New York
                            , 20    
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the ""), hereby promises to pay to                                         or registered assigns (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Lender to the Borrower under that certain Amended and Restated Five-Year Senior Credit Agreement, dated as of June 4, 2009 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrower, Covidien plc, Covidien Ltd., the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Borrower
Lender
Agreement
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Agreement. All payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in dollars in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Agreement.
This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. This Note is also entitled to the benefits of the Guarantee in Article VIII of the Agreement and each Subsidiary Guaranty. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Agreement. Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
Except as otherwise provided in the Agreement, the Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
This Assignment and Assumption (this "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [] (the "") and [] (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full. For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including, without limitation, Guarantees included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as, the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assignment and Assumption
Insert name of Assignor
Assignor
Insert name of Assignee
Assignee
Credit Agreement
Assigned Interest
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective Date:            , 20    [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED FIVE-YEAR SENIOR CREDIT AGREEMENT DATED AS OF JUNE 4, 2009 AMONG COVIDIEN INTERNATIONAL FINANCE S.A., AS BORROWER, COVIDIEN PLC, COVIDIEN LTD., THE LENDERS PARTIES THERETO, AND CITIBANK, N.A., AS ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1. . The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
1.2. . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all requirements of an eligible assignee under the Credit Agreement (subject to receipt of such consents as may be required under the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative or any other Lender, and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
 
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignee whether such amounts have accrued prior to or on or after the Effective Date. The Assignor and the Assignee shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments by the Administrative for periods prior to the Effective Date or with respect to the making of this assignment directly between themselves.
Payments
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
EXHIBIT C-1
EXHIBIT C-2
EXHIBIT C-3
EXHIBIT C-
4
EXHIBIT C-5
EXHIBIT C-6
EXHIBIT D
WHEREAS, Covidien International Finance S.A. (the ""), Covidien plc, Covidien Ltd., the Lenders parties thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent have entered into the Amended and Restated Five-Year Senior Credit Agreement, dated as of June 4, 2009 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, (as the same may be amended from time to time, the ""), pursuant to which the Borrower is or may be entitled, subject to certain conditions, to borrow loans thereunder;
Borrower
Credit Agreement
WHEREAS, in conjunction with the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement and in consideration of the financial and other support that the Borrower has provided, and such financial and other support as the Borrower may in the future provide, to the undersigned (together with its successors, the "") and in order to induce the Lenders and the Administrative Agent to enter into the Credit Agreement and to make extensions of credit thereunder, the Guarantor is willing to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Agreement and the Notes issued thereunder;
Guarantor
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Guarantor hereby agrees as follows:
. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement and not otherwise defined herein are used herein as therein defined, and the provisions of Sections 1.03 and 1.04 of the Credit Agreement shall apply to this Subsidiary Guaranty. In addition, the following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:
Section 1.01 Definitions
"" means (i) all obligations of the Borrower in respect of principal of and interest on the Loans and the Notes, (ii) all other amounts payable by the Borrower under the Credit Agreement or any Note and (iii) all renewals or extensions of the foregoing, in each case whether now outstanding or hereafter arising. The Guaranteed Obligations shall include, without limitation, any interest, costs, fees and expenses which accrue on or with respect to any of the foregoing and are payable by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement or any Note, whether before or after the commencement of any case, proceeding or other action relating to the bankruptcy, insolvency, examinership or reorganization of any one or more than one of the Obligors, and any such interest, costs, fees and expenses that would have accrued thereon or with
Guaranteed Obligations
respect thereto and would have been payable by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement or Note but for the commencement of such case, proceeding or other action.
"" means, at any time, collectively, the Borrower, the Guarantors (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and each Subsidiary Guarantor at such time.
Obligors
.Subject to Section 2.03, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and to each of them, the due and punctual payment of all Guaranteed Obligations as and when the same shall become due and payable, whether at maturity, by declaration or otherwise, according to the terms thereof. This is a continuing guarantee and a guarantee of payment and not merely of collection. In case of failure by the Borrower punctually to pay the indebtedness guaranteed hereby, the Guarantor, subject to Section 2.03, hereby unconditionally agrees to cause such payment to be made punctually as and when the same shall become due and payable, whether at maturity or by declaration or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Borrower.
Section 2.01 The Guarantee
.The obligations of the Guarantor under this Article 2 shall be unconditional and absolute and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall not be released, discharged or otherwise affected by:
Section 2.02 Guarantee Unconditional
(a) any extension, renewal, settlement, compromise, waiver or release in respect of any obligation of any other Obligor under any Loan Document, by operation of law or otherwise;
(b) any modification or amendment of or supplement to any Financing Document (other than as specified in an amendment or waiver of this Subsidiary Guaranty effected in accordance with Section 2.03);
(c) any modification, amendment, waiver, release, non-perfection or invalidity of any direct or indirect security, or of any guaranty or other liability of any third party, for any obligation of any other Obligor under any Loan Document;
(d) any change in the corporate existence, structure or ownership of any other Obligor, or any insolvency, examinership, bankruptcy, reorganization or other similar proceeding affecting any other Obligor or its assets or any resulting release or discharge of any obligation of any other Obligor contained in any Loan Document;
(e) the existence of any claim, set-off or other rights which the Guarantor may have at any time against any other Obligor, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Person, whether or not arising in connection with the Loan Document; that nothing herein shall prevent the assertion of any such claim by separate suit or compulsory counterclaim;
provided
 
(f) any invalidity or unenforceability relating to or against any other Obligor for any reason of any Loan Document, or any provision of applicable law or regulation purporting to prohibit the payment by any other Obligor of the principal of or interest on any Loan or any other amount payable by any other Obligor under any Loan Document; or
(g) any other act or omission to act or delay of any kind by any other Obligor, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Person or any other circumstance whatsoever that might, but for the provisions of this paragraph, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of the obligations of the Guarantor under this Article 2.
.The Guarantor shall be liable under this Subsidiary Guaranty only for amounts aggregating up to the largest amount that would not render its obligations hereunder subject to avoidance under Section 548 of the United States Bankruptcy Code or any comparable provisions of any other applicable law. To the extent that the Guarantor shall be required hereunder to pay a portion of the Guaranteed Obligations which shall exceed the greater of (i) the amount of the economic benefit actually received by the Guarantor from the incurrence of the Loans under the Credit Agreement and (ii) the amount which the Guarantor would otherwise have paid if the Guarantor had paid the aggregate amount of the Guaranteed Obligations (excluding the amount thereof repaid by the Borrower and any other Subsidiary Guarantors) in the same proportion as the Guarantor's net worth at the date enforcement hereunder is sought bears to the aggregate net worth of all the Subsidiary Guarantors at the date enforcement hereunder is sought (the ""), then the Guarantor shall have a right of contribution against each other Subsidiary Guarantor who has made payments in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations to and including the date enforcement hereunder is sought in an aggregate amount less than such other Subsidiary Guarantor's Contribution Percentage of the aggregate payments made to and including the date enforcement hereunder is sought by all Subsidiary Guarantors in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations; that no Subsidiary Guarantor may take any action to enforce such right until the Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnification obligations with respect to unasserted claims) have been indefeasibly paid in full and the Commitments have been terminated, it being expressly recognized and agreed by all parties hereto that the Guarantor's right of contribution arising pursuant to this Section 2.03 against any other Subsidiary Guarantor shall be expressly junior and subordinate to such other Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations and liabilities in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations and any other obligations owing under any Subsidiary Guaranty. All parties hereto recognize and agree that, except for any right of contribution arising pursuant to this Section 2.03, each Subsidiary Guarantor who makes any payment in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations shall have no right of contribution or subrogation against any other Subsidiary Guarantor in respect of such payment. The Guarantor recognizes and acknowledges that the rights to contribution arising hereunder shall constitute an asset in favor of the party entitled to such contribution. In this connection, the Guarantor has the right to waive its contribution right against any other Subsidiary Guarantor to the extent that after giving effect to such waiver the Guarantor would remain solvent, in the determination of the Required Lenders.
Section 2.03 Limit of Liability
Contribution Percentage
provided
.Subject to Section 4.06, the Guarantor's obligations under this Article II shall remain in full force and effect
Section 2.04 Discharge; Reinstatement in Certain Circumstances
 
until the Commitments are terminated and the principal of and interest on the Loans and all other amounts payable by the Borrower under the Loan Documents shall have been paid in full. If at any time any payment of the principal of or interest on any Loan or any other amount payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is rescinded or must be otherwise restored or returned upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of any other Obligor or otherwise, the Guarantor's obligations under this Article II with respect to such payment shall be reinstated at such time as though such payment had become due but had not been made at such time.
.The Guarantor irrevocably waives acceptance hereof, presentment, demand, protest and any notice not provided for herein, as well as any requirement that at any time any action be taken by any Person against any other Obligor or any other Person.
Section 2.05 Waiver
.(a) The Guarantor irrevocably waives any and all rights to which it may be entitled, by operation of law or otherwise, upon making any payment hereunder (i) to be subrogated to the rights of the payee against the Borrower with respect to such payment or otherwise to be reimbursed, indemnified or exonerated by any other Obligor in respect thereof or (ii) to receive any payment, in the nature of contribution or for any other reason, from any other Obligor with respect to such payment.
Section 2.06 Subrogation and Contribution
(b) Notwithstanding the provision of subsection (a) of this Section 2.06, the Guarantor shall have and be entitled to (i) all rights of subrogation or contribution otherwise provided by law in respect of any payment it may make or be obligated to make under this Subsidiary Guaranty and (ii) all claims (as defined under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended, or any successor statute (the "")) it would have against any Obligor or any other Subsidiary Guarantor (each an "") in the absence of subsection (a) of this Section 2.06 and to assert and enforce the same, in each case on and after, but at no time prior to, the date (the "") which is one year and five days after the Maturity Date if, but only if, (x) no Default or Event of Default of the type described in Article VI of the Credit Agreement with respect to the relevant Other Party has existed at any time on and after the Subrogation Trigger Date and (y) the existence of the Guarantor's rights under this clause (b) would not make the Guarantor a creditor (as defined in the Bankruptcy Code) of such Other Party in any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding commenced on or prior to the Subrogation Trigger Date.
Bankruptcy Code
Other Party
Subrogation Trigger Date
.If acceleration of the time for payment of any amount payable by the Borrower under the Loan Documents is stayed upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Borrower, all such amounts otherwise subject to acceleration under the terms of the Loan Documents shall nonetheless be payable by the Guarantor hereunder forthwith on demand by the Administrative Agent made at the request of the Required Lenders.
Section 2.07
Stay of Acceleration
The Guarantor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
 
. The Guarantor is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of                     .
Section 3.01 Corporate Existence and Power
.The execution, delivery and performance by the Guarantor of this Subsidiary Guaranty:
Section 3.02 Corporate and Governmental Authorization; No Contravention
(a) are within the Guarantor's corporate powers;
(b) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Guarantor;
(c) require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any Governmental Authority on the part of the Guarantor; and
(d) do not contravene, or constitute a default by the Guarantor under, any provision of (i) applicable law or regulation, (ii) the constitutional documents of the Guarantor, or (iii) any agreement or instrument evidencing or governing Debt of the Guarantor or any other material agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other instrument binding upon the Guarantor.
.This Subsidiary Guaranty constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Guarantor.
Section 3.03 Binding Effect
.The Guarantor is not an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Section 3.04 Not an Investment Company
.All notices, requests and other communications to be made to or by the Guarantor hereunder shall be in writing (including, without limitation, bank wire, telex, facsimile transmission or similar writing) and shall be given: (a) if to the Guarantor, to it at its address or facsimile number set forth on the signature pages hereof or such other address or facsimile number as the Guarantor may hereafter specify for the purpose by notice to the Administrative Agent and (b) if to any party to the Credit Agreement, to it at its address or facsimile number for notices specified in or pursuant to the Credit Agreement. Each such notice, request or other communication shall be effective (i) if given by facsimile, when such facsimile is transmitted to the facsimile transmission number specified in this Section 4.01 and electronic, telephonic or other appropriate confirmation of receipt thereof is received by the sender, (ii) if given by mail, 72 hours after such communication is deposited in the mails with first class postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid or (ii) if given by any other means, when delivered at the address specified in this Section 4.01.
Section 4.01 Notices
 
.No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right, power or privilege under this Subsidiary Guaranty or any other Loan Document shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein and therein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
Section 4.02 No Waiver
.Any provision of this Subsidiary Guaranty may be amended or waived if, and only if, such amendment or waiver is entered into in accordance with Section 10.02 of the Credit Agreement.
Section 4.03 Amendments and Waivers
.This Subsidiary Guaranty is for the benefit of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective successors and assigns and in the event of an assignment of the Loans, the Notes or other amounts payable under the Loan Documents, the rights hereunder, to the extent applicable to the indebtedness so assigned, shall be transferred with such indebtedness. All the provisions of this Subsidiary Guaranty shall be binding upon the Guarantor and its successors and assigns.
Section 4.04 Successors and Assigns
.All payments by the Guarantor hereunder shall be made free and clear of Taxes and otherwise in accordance with Section 9.05 of the Credit Agreement (which Section, including but not limited to the indemnification provisions contained therein) is hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth herein, that each reference contained therein to an Obligor shall be a reference to the Guarantor).
Section 4.05 Taxes
provided
. (a) This Subsidiary Guaranty shall become effective when the Administrative Agent shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by the Guarantor.
Section 4.06 Effectiveness
(b) The Guarantor may at any time elect to terminate this Subsidiary Guaranty and its obligations hereunder if (i) after giving effect thereto, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (ii) at such time the Guarantor does not have in effect a guarantee the effect of which would require the Guarantor to be a Subsidiary Guarantor under the terms of Section 5.12 of the Credit Agreement. If the Guarantor so elects to terminate this Subsidiary Guaranty, it shall give the Administrative Agent notice to such effect, which notice shall be accompanied by a certificate of a Responsible Officer to the effect that, after giving effect to such termination, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing. The Administrative Agent may if it so elects conclusively rely on such certificate. Upon receipt of such notice and such certificate, unless the Administrative Agent determines that a Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Administrative Agent shall promptly deliver to the Guarantor the counterpart of this Subsidiary Guaranty delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 4.06(a), and upon such delivery this Subsidiary Guaranty shall terminate and the Guarantor shall have no further obligations hereunder. In addition to the foregoing, this Subsidiary Guaranty may be terminated and released in accordance with the terms of the penultimate paragraph of Article VII of the Credit Agreement.
. (a) THIS SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN
Section 4.07 GOVERNING LAW; SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
 
ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. THE GUARANTOR HEREBY SUBMITS TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK AND OF ANY NEW YORK STATE COURT SITTING IN NEW YORK CITY FOR PURPOSES OF ALL LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. THE GUARANTOR IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY OBJECTION WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT AND ANY CLAIM THAT ANY SUCH PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT HAS BEEN BROUGHT IN AN INCONVENIENT FORUM.
(b) If the Guarantor is not organized under the laws of the United States of America or a State thereof:
(i) .The Guarantor hereby irrevocably designates and appoints CT Corporation System having an office on the date hereof at 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011 as its authorized agent, to accept and acknowledge on its behalf, service or any and all process which may be served in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in subsection (a) above in any federal or New York State court sitting in New York City. The Guarantor represents and warrants that such agent has agreed in writing to accept such appointment and that a true copy of such designation and acceptance has been delivered to the Administrative Agent. Such designation and appointment shall be irrevocable until all principal and interest and all other amounts payable hereunder shall have been paid in full in accordance with the provisions hereof. If such agent shall cease so to act, the Guarantor covenants and agrees to designate irrevocably and appoint without delay another such agent satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and to deliver promptly to the Administrative Agent evidence in writing of such other agent's acceptance of such appointment.
Appointment of Agent for Service of Process
(ii) .The Guarantor hereby consents to process being served in any suit, action, or proceeding of the nature referred to in subsection (a) above in any federal or New York State court sitting in New York City by service of process upon the agent of the Guarantor, as the case may be, for service of process in such jurisdiction appointed as provided in subsection (b)(i) above; that, to the extent lawful and possible, written notice of said service upon such agent shall be mailed by registered airmail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Guarantor at its address specified on the signature pages hereof or to any other address of which the Guarantor shall have given written notice to the Administrative Agent. The Guarantor irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, all claim of error by reason of any such service and agrees that such service shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon the Guarantor in any such suit, action or proceeding and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be taken and held to be valid and personal service upon and personal delivery to the Guarantor.
Service of Process
provided
 
(iii) . Nothing in this Section 4.07 shall affect the right of the Administrative Agent or any Lender to serve process in any other manner permitted by law or limit the right of the Administrative Agent or any Lender to bring proceedings against the Guarantor in the courts of any jurisdiction or jurisdictions.
No Limitation on Service or Suit
(iv) . To the extent permitted by applicable law, if the Guarantor has or hereafter may acquire any immunity (sovereign or otherwise) from any legal action, suit or proceeding, from jurisdiction of any court or from set-off or any legal process (whether service or notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution of judgment, execution of judgment or otherwise) with respect to itself or any of its property, the Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives and agrees not to plead or claim such immunity in respect of its obligations under this Subsidiary Guaranty. The Guarantor agrees that the waivers set forth above shall be to the fullest extent permitted under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976 of the United States of America and are intended to be irrevocable and not subject to withdrawal for purposes of such Act.
Waiver of Immunities
.THE GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Section 4.08 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
. If, under any applicable law and whether pursuant to a judgment being made or registered against the Guarantor or for any other reason, any payment under or in connection with this Subsidiary Guaranty, is made or satisfied in a currency (the "") other than that in which the relevant payment is due (the "") then, to the extent that the payment (when converted into the Required Currency at the rate of exchange on the date of payment or, if it is not practicable for the party entitled thereto (the "") to purchase the Required Currency with the other Currency on the date of payment, at the rate of exchange as soon thereafter as it is practicable for it to do so) actually received by the Payee falls short of the amount due under the terms of this Subsidiary Guaranty, the Guarantor shall, to the extent permitted by law, as a separate and independent obligation, indemnify and hold harmless the Payee against the amount of such shortfall. For the purpose of this Section, "rate of exchange" means the rate at which the Payee is able on the relevant date to purchase the Required Currency with the Other Currency and shall take into account any premium and other costs of exchange.
Section 4.09 Judgment Currency
Other Currency
Required Currency
Payee
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Guarantor has caused this instrument to be duly executed by its authorized officer as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Covidien Completes Change in Place of Incorporation
DUBLIN, Ireland  June 5, 2009  Covidien (NYSE: COV) today announced that its reorganization has been completed and the Company is now incorporated in Ireland. The transaction was completed on June 4, 2009, following receipt of the required approval from the Supreme Court of Bermuda.
Covidien has a well-established presence and a substantial workforce in Ireland, where it has had operations for nearly 30 years. The Company has four factories serving the Medical Devices and Imaging Solutions segments, as well as sales and customer service facilities.
"Ireland has a stable business, legal and regulatory environment and enjoys strong relationships as a member of the European Union. Additionally, Ireland enjoys a long history of international investment and a good network of tax treaties with the United States, the European Union and many other countries where Covidien has major operations," said Richard J. Meelia, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Ireland is a beneficial location for the expanding Covidien markets in Europe, Asia and Africa," Meelia added.
As a result of the Transaction, Covidien Ltd. common shares were cancelled and Covidien plc ordinary shares were issued to all shareholders. The common shareholders of Covidien Ltd. have become ordinary shareholders of Covidien plc and Covidien Ltd. has become a wholly owned subsidiary of Covidien plc. Shares of the Irish company, Covidien plc, will begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange on June 5, 2009, under the symbol "COV," the same symbol under which Covidien Ltd. shares traded. Covidien will continue to be subject to United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reporting requirements, prepare its financial statements and pay dividends in U.S. dollars and continue to be subject to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
ABOUT COVIDIEN
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in four segments: Medical Devices, Imaging Solutions, Pharmaceutical Products and Medical Supplies. With 2008 revenue of nearly $10 billion, Covidien has more than 41,000 employees worldwide in 59 countries, and its products are sold in over 140 countries. Please visit www.covidien.com to learn more about our business.
 


