FILE:COV/COV-8K-20090116090845.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
                      
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
On January 16, 2009, Covidien Ltd. (the "Company") posted to its website a revised Questions & Answers document, dated January 16, 2009 (the "Revised Q&A"), relating to the Company's reorganization that was announced on December 23, 2008. The Revised Q&A replaces the Questions & Answers document that was posted to the Company's website on December 23, 2008, which was attached as Exhibit 99.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 23, 2008 (the "Original Q&A"). The Revised Q&A is substantially identical to the Original Q&A, except that it includes additional questions and answers relating to certain Irish tax matters. The Revised Q&A, which has been posted to the Company's website in the Investor Relations section at http://investor.covidien.com, is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
                       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

After our first year as an independent healthcare products company, Covidien's management and Board of Directors assessed where it made the most sense to locate our principal executive office. After much consideration, a decision was made that it would be in the best interests of the Company, its shareholders and employees to incorporate in Ireland  where the Company has had operations for nearly 30 years and has a strong and growing presence. Currently, Covidien has 7 facilities, including 5 manufacturing sites, sales and customer service operations in Ireland. In total, Covidien has almost 2,000 employees in the country.
Covidien is achieving strong results in international markets where it continues to benefit from the incremental investments made over the last few years to augment the sales force and expand geographically. Additionally, Ireland is a more beneficial location considering Covidien's growing presence in the European, African and Asian marketplaces.
Ireland enjoys strong relationships as a member of the European Union, has a long history of international investment and a good network of tax treaties with the United States, the European Union and many other countries where Covidien has major operations. The reorganization will offer increased strategic flexibility and operational benefits as we continue to expand the rapidly growing international portion of our business.
This communication is being made in respect of the proposed reorganization. In connection with the reorganization, Covidien intends to file with the SEC a proxy statement and mail the proxy statement to its shareholders. Shareholders are urged to read such proxy statement when it becomes available because it will contain important information. The proxy statement will be, and other documents filed or to be filed by Covidien with the SEC are or will be, available free of charge at the SEC's web site (
www.sec.gov
) and at Covidien's web site (
www.covidien.com
).
Covidien and its directors and executive officers and other persons may be deemed participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed reorganization. Information about the direct or indirect interests of the participants, by security holdings or otherwise, is available in Covidien's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 26, 2008 and proxy statement for Covidien's 2008 annual meeting, which were filed on November 21, 2008 and January 24, 2008, respectively, and will be available in the proxy statement to be filed in connection with the reorganization.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Any statements contained in this communication that do not describe historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are based on our management's current beliefs and expectations, but are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results or Company actions to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. The factors that could cause actual future results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to, our ability to obtain approval of the Company's shareholders and the Supreme Court of Bermuda for and to satisfy the other conditions to the reorganization on the expected timeframe or at all, our ability to obtain waivers under and/or amendments to our credit facility in connection with the reorganization, our ability to realize the expected benefits from the reorganization, the occurrence of difficulties in connection with the reorganization, any unanticipated costs in connection with the reorganization, our ability to effectively introduce and market new products or keep pace with advances in technology, the reimbursement practices of a small number of large public and private insurers, cost-containment efforts of customers, purchasing groups, third-party payers and governmental organizations, intellectual property rights disputes, complex and costly regulation, including healthcare fraud and abuse regulations, manufacturing or supply chain problems or disruptions, rising commodity costs, recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity relating to Covidien or its products, product liability losses and other litigation liability, including legacy Tyco-related litigation, divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines, our ability to execute strategic acquisitions of, investments in or alliances with other companies and businesses, competition, risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, foreign currency exchange rates, issues related to our existing material weakness in accounting for income taxes or potential environmental liabilities. These and other factors are identified and described in more detail in our filings with the SEC. We disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements other than as required by law.


