FILE:COV/COV-8K-20091106171951.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
On November 6, 2009, Covidien plc issued a press release announcing the results of a tender offer by Transformer Delaware Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of Covidien plc through its wholly owned subsidiary, United States Surgical Corporation, to purchase all of the outstanding shares of Common Stock of Aspect Medical Systems, Inc., and a press release announcing that it had completed its acquisition of Aspect Medical Systems, Inc. through United States Surgical Corporation. A copy of each press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
COVIDIEN PLC
By:  
/s/  Matthew J. Nicolella                            
        Matthew J. Nicolella
        Vice President & Assistant Secretary
Date: November 6, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
Covidien Successfully Completes Tender Offer for Shares of Aspect Medical Systems, Inc.
DUBLIN, Ireland  November 6, 2009  Covidien (NYSE: COV), a leading global provider of healthcare products, today announced the successful completion of its tender offer through its subsidiary, Transformer Delaware Corp., to purchase all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Aspect Medical Systems, Inc. The tender offer expired at 12:00 midnight ET, at the end of November 5, 2009, and was not extended.
The depositary for the tender offer has advised Covidien that, as of the expiration of the offering period, a total of approximately 16,195,245 shares of Aspect common stock were validly tendered and not withdrawn (not including approximately 295,895 shares subject to guaranteed delivery procedures), representing approximately 89.58 percent of the outstanding Aspect common shares. All shares that were validly tendered and not properly withdrawn during the initial offering period have been accepted for payment.
Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, Transformer Delaware Corp. intends to exercise its option to purchase newly issued shares from Aspect at the tender offer price, which will permit Covidien to complete the acquisition process by effecting a short-form merger as promptly as practicable, that is, without a vote or meeting of Aspect's remaining stockholders. Following the merger, Aspect will become an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Covidien, and each share of Aspect's outstanding common stock will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive the same consideration, without interest, received by holders who tendered in the tender offer. Thereafter, Aspect common stock will cease to be traded on the NASDAQ.
ABOUT COVIDIEN
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in three segments: Medical Devices, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies. With 2008 revenue of $10 billion, Covidien has more than 41,000 employees worldwide in 59 countries, and its products are sold in over 140 countries. Please visit www.covidien.com to learn more about our business.
CONTACTS:
 

Exhibit 99.2
Covidien Completes Acquisition of Aspect Medical Systems Inc.
DUBLIN, Ireland  November 6, 2009  Covidien (NYSE: COV), a leading global provider of healthcare products, today announced that it has completed the previously announced acquisition of Aspect Medical Systems Inc. for an aggregate consideration of approximately $210 million, net of cash and short-term investments acquired.
The tender offer expired at 12:00 midnight ET, at the end of November 5, 2009. At that time, the depositary for the offer advised Covidien that 16,195,245 shares of Aspect common stock had been validly tendered and not withdrawn, representing approximately 89.58% of the outstanding Aspect common shares. All shares that were validly tendered and not withdrawn were accepted for purchase and paid for in accordance with the tender offer. An additional 297,066 shares, or approximately 1.64% of the outstanding Aspect common shares, had been tendered pursuant to notices of guaranteed delivery.
Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, Transformer Delaware Corp., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Covidien, exercised its option to purchase newly issued shares from Aspect at the tender offer price. Following the purchase, Transformer Delaware Corp. owned sufficient shares to effect a short-form merger with and into Aspect, which then became an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Covidien. Thereafter, Aspect common stock ceased to be traded on the NASDAQ.
"The acquisition of Aspect will broaden our monitoring portfolio and is consistent with our strategy to expand into adjacent market segments," said Pete Wehrly, President, Respiratory & Monitoring Solutions, Covidien. "We are pleased to add Aspect's clinical expertise, research & development organization and sales force to Covidien. The acquisition will expand our presence in the operating room and help us achieve our mission of enhancing the quality of life for patients and improving outcomes for our customers."
ABOUT COVIDIEN
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in three segments: Medical Devices, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies. With 2008 revenue of $10 billion, Covidien has more than 41,000 employees worldwide in 59 countries, and its products are sold in over 140 countries. Please visit www.covidien.com to learn more about our business.
CONTACTS:
 


