FILE:COV/COV-8K-20090618162653.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Covidien plc issued a press release on June 17, 2009, announcing that it had completed its acquisition of VNUS Medical Technologies, Inc. through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Covidien Group S.a.r.l. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 18, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
Covidien Completes Acquisition of VNUS Medical Technologies
DUBLIN, Ireland  June 17, 2009  Covidien (NYSE: COV), a leading global provider of healthcare products, today announced that one of its subsidiaries has completed the previously announced acquisition of VNUS Medical Technologies for approximately $440 million, net of cash and investments acquired.
The tender offer by Covidien's subsidiary expired today at 9:00AM ET. At that time, the depositary for the offer advised Covidien that 13,998,147 shares of VNUS had been validly tendered and not withdrawn, representing approximately 86% of the outstanding VNUS common shares. All shares that were validly tendered and not withdrawn were accepted for purchase and paid for in accordance with the tender offer. An additional 955,552 shares, or approximately 6% of the outstanding VNUS shares, had been tendered pursuant to notices of guaranteed delivery.
Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, Covidien's subsidiary exercised its option to purchase newly issued shares from VNUS at the tender offer price. This permitted Covidien's subsidiary to acquire sufficient shares to effect a short-form merger with and into VNUS, which then became a wholly owned subsidiary of Covidien.
"The acquisition of VNUS will expand our vascular product line and is consistent with our strategy of becoming a leading partner with interventional radiologists and vascular surgeons," said Joe Almeida, President, Medical Devices, Covidien. "VNUS will be an important addition to our portfolio of vascular intervention products and we are pleased to have the VNUS employees joining Covidien as part of our new Vascular Therapies global business unit."
ABOUT COVIDIEN
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in four segments: Medical Devices, Imaging Solutions, Pharmaceutical Products and Medical Supplies. With 2008 revenue of nearly $10 billion, Covidien has more than 41,000 employees worldwide in 59 countries, and its products are sold in over 140 countries. Please visit www.covidien.com to learn more about our business.
 


