FILE:COV/COV-8K-20090908162507.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Covidien plc issued a press release on September 8, 2009, announcing that it had completed its acquisition of Power Medical Interventions, Inc. through its wholly owned subsidiary, United States Surgical Corporation. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 8, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
Covidien Completes Acquisition of Power Medical Interventions Inc.
DUBLIN, Ireland  September 8, 2009  Covidien (NYSE: COV), a leading global provider of healthcare products, today announced that it has completed the previously announced acquisition of Power Medical Interventions Inc. (PMI) for an aggregate consideration of approximately $65 million, including assumption of debt.
The tender offer expired at 12:00 midnight ET, at the end of September 4, 2009. At that time, the depositary for the offer advised Covidien that 15,210,583 shares of PMI had been validly tendered and not withdrawn, representing approximately 87% of the outstanding PMI common shares. All shares that were validly tendered and not withdrawn were accepted for purchase and paid for in accordance with the tender offer. An additional 247,765 shares, or approximately 1.4% of the outstanding PMI shares, had been tendered pursuant to notices of guaranteed delivery.
Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, Covidien Delaware Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of Covidien, exercised its option to purchase newly issued shares from PMI at the tender offer price. This permitted Covidien Delaware Corp. to acquire sufficient shares to effect a short-form merger with and into PMI, which then became a wholly owned subsidiary of Covidien.
"The acquisition of Power Medical will expand our stapling product line and is consistent with our strategy to deliver innovative healthcare solutions that enable advanced surgical care," said Scott Flora, President, Surgical Devices, Covidien. "As a pioneer in surgical stapling, we are committed to advancing healthcare technology to improve patient outcomes."
ABOUT COVIDIEN
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in three segments: Medical Devices, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies. With 2008 revenue of $10 billion, Covidien has more than 41,000 employees worldwide in 59 countries, and its products are sold in over 140 countries. Please visit www.covidien.com to learn more about our business.
 


