FILE:COV/COV-8K-20090508073227.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 7, 2009, Covidien Ltd. (the "Company") entered into a definitive agreement to acquire VNUS Medical Technologies, Inc. ("VNUS"), a developer of medical devices for minimally invasive treatment of venous reflux disease, an underlying cause of varicose veins.
VNUS is a publicly-held company based in San Jose, CA. The Boards of Directors of both companies have unanimously approved the transaction, pursuant to which a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company will pay $29 in cash per VNUS share for a total of approximately $440 million, net of cash acquired. The transaction, which will take the form of an all cash tender offer followed by a second-step merger, is subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of certain regulatory approvals, and is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009.
 
On May 8, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing entry into a definitive agreement to acquire VNUS. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and incorporated herein by reference.
Important Additional Information Will Be Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
This current report is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell shares of VNUS. Covidien Delaware Corp. (the "Merger Sub"), an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has not commenced the tender offer for the shares of VNUS stock described in this current report.
Upon commencement of the tender offer, the Merger Sub will file with the SEC a tender offer statement on Schedule TO and related exhibits, including the offer to purchase, letter of transmittal, and other related documents. Following commencement of the tender offer, VNUS will file with the SEC a tender offer solicitation/recommendation statement on Schedule 14D-9. These documents will contain important information about the Company, the Merger Sub, VNUS, the transaction and other related matters. Investors and security holders are urged to read each of these documents carefully when they are available.
Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the tender offer statement, the tender offer solicitation/recommendation statement and other documents filed with the SEC by the Merger Sub and VNUS through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of these documents by contacting: Covidien, Investor Relations, 508-452-4650, , or VNUS Medical Technologies, Investor Relations, 408-360-7499 Extension 7446, ir@vnus.com.
investor.relations@covidien.com
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 8, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
Dublin, Ireland, and San Jose, CA  May 8, 2009  Covidien (NYSE: COV) and VNUS Medical Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ: VNUS) today announced that Covidien has reached a definitive agreement to acquire VNUS, a developer of medical devices for minimally invasive treatment of venous reflux disease.
VNUS had 2008 revenues of $101 million and is based in San Jose, CA. The Boards of Directors of both companies have unanimously approved the transaction, pursuant to which a wholly owned subsidiary of Covidien will pay $29.00 in cash per VNUS share for a total of approximately $440 million, net of cash acquired. The transaction, which will take the form of an all cash tender offer followed by a second-step merger, is subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of certain regulatory approvals, and is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009.
Venous reflux disease is an underlying cause of varicose veins that can result in symptoms including leg pain, swelling, fatigue and skin ulcers. VNUS's proprietary products include the VNUS Closure system, which employs a disposable radiofrequency catheter that controllably heats and closes diseased veins. In a randomized clinical trial, the system was proven to be as effective as vein stripping, an open surgical procedure that has been the historical standard for treatment for venous reflux disease, but with fewer side effects and faster recovery.
"The acquisition of VNUS will allow Covidien to expand its presence in the vascular market and is in line with our strategy of becoming a leading partner with vascular surgeons and interventional radiologists," said Joe Almeida, President, Medical Devices, Covidien. "The VNUS product line will be an important addition to our innovative portfolio of vascular intervention products."
"By joining Covidien, VNUS gains access to extended global resources to further drive the growth of VNUS products around the world," said Brian Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer, VNUS. "To date, approximately 500,000 patients suffering from painful varicose veins and venous reflux have been treated with the VNUS Closure catheter, and we look forward to seeing this transaction facilitate expanding the access to this beneficial therapy for many more patients."
Assuming a second calendar quarter closing, Covidien expects this transaction to dilute fiscal 2009 GAAP earnings per share, primarily due to a one-time charge for in-process research and development (IPR&D). On a non-GAAP basis, excluding IPR&D, the transaction is expected to be slightly dilutive to 2009 earnings per share; however, the underlying strength of Covidien's existing businesses is expected to offset this dilution. As a result, Covidien does not anticipate this transaction will have a material impact on its fiscal 2009 sales or operating margin outlook.
Once the transaction has been completed, Covidien will report the VNUS business as part of its Vascular product line in the Medical Devices segment.
ABOUT COVIDIEN
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in four segments: Medical Devices, Imaging Solutions, Pharmaceutical Products and Medical Supplies. With 2008 revenue of nearly $10 billion, Covidien has more than 41,000 employees worldwide in 59 countries, and its products are sold in over 140 countries. Please visit www.covidien.com to learn more about our business.
ABOUT VNUS MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
VNUS is a leading provider of medical devices for the minimally invasive treatment of venous reflux, a progressive condition caused by incompetent vein valves in the leg. VNUS sells the Closure system, which consists of a proprietary radiofrequency (RF) generator and proprietary disposable endovenous catheters and devices to treat diseased veins through the application of temperature-controlled RF energy. For more information, please visit the corporate website at http://www.vnus.com.
COVIDIEN CONTACTS
 
 
VNUS CONTACT
Peter Osborne
Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance and Administration
408- 360-7499
ir@vnus.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Any statements contained in this communication that do not describe historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This release contains forward-looking information about Covidien's proposed acquisition of VNUS Medical Technologies, Inc., the timing of the anticipated transaction, the potential benefits of the anticipated transaction, VNUS' clinical trials, products and product candidates and the potential benefits of such products and product candidates, and expected dilutive effect. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are based on Covidien's and VNUS' management's current beliefs and expectations, but are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results
or actions to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. The factors that could cause actual future results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to, the satisfaction of conditions to closing the agreement; the ability to successfully integrate VNUS' operations and programs with Covidien's and the time and resources required to do so, the uncertainties inherent in commercial, research and development activities, decisions by regulatory authorities regarding whether and when to approve any applications for such product candidates and other matters that could affect the availability or commercial potential of such product candidates; and competitive developments. These and other factors are identified and described in more detail in Covidien's and VNUS' filings with the SEC. We caution investors not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. We disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements other than as required by law.
NON-GAAP Financial Information
This release contains a non-GAAP financial measure. This non-GAAP financial measure, which is used as measures of Covidien's performance, should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or superior to, measures of Covidien's financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to GAAP is provided in the text of this release. Covidien's non-GAAP measures may be defined differently than similar terms used by other companies, and accordingly, care should be exercised in understanding how Covidien defines its non-GAAP financial measures.
Specifically, any one-time charge for in-process research and development is excluded from the projected earnings per share dilution.
Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure to gain an understanding of Covidien's comparative operating performance (when comparing such results with previous periods or forecasts) and future prospects. This non-GAAP financial measure is also used by Covidien's management in their financial and operating decision-making because management believes they reflect the underlying economics of Covidien's ongoing business in a manner that allows meaningful period-to-period comparisons. Such comparisons may be more meaningful because operating results presented under GAAP may include, from time to time, items that are not necessarily relevant to understand Covidien's business and may, in some cases, be difficult to forecast accurately for future periods. Covidien's management believes that this non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating Covidien's current operating performance and future prospects in the same manner as management does if they so choose. Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations, however, because they do not include all items of income and expense that affect Covidien's operations. Management compensates for this and other limitations by also considering Covidien's financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP.
IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE TENDER OFFER
This press release is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell shares of VNUS. Covidien Delaware Corp. (the "Merger Sub"), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Covidien, has not commenced the tender offer for the shares of VNUS stock described in this press release.
 
Upon commencement of the tender offer, the Merger Sub will file with the SEC a tender offer statement on Schedule TO and related exhibits, including the offer to purchase, letter of transmittal, and other related documents. Following commencement of the tender offer, VNUS will file with the SEC a tender offer solicitation/recommendation statement on Schedule 14D-9. These documents will contain important information about Covidien, VNUS, the transaction and other related matters. Investors and security holders are urged to read each of these documents carefully when they are available.
Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the tender offer statement, the tender offer solicitation/recommendation statement and other documents filed with the SEC by the Merger Sub and VNUS through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of these documents by contacting:
Covidien
Investor Relations
508-452-4650
investor.relations@covidien.com
or
VNUS Medical Technologies
Investor Relations
408-360-7499 Extension 7446
ir@vnus.com


