FILE:COV/COV-8K-20100318084141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under the Covidien Severance Plan for U.S. Officers and Executives (the "Executive Severance Plan"), recipients of severance benefits may receive early retirement or normal retirement treatment under restricted stock unit awards and option awards if, during the applicable severance period, they satisfy the age requirement for such treatment (currently age 55 for early retirement and age 60 for normal retirement).
On March 16, 2010, Covidien plc (the "Company") amended the Executive Severance Plan to extend this treatment to performance share units, effective January 1, 2010. The Executive Severance Plan has also been updated to reflect the Company's incorporation in Ireland.
 
At the Company's Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on March 16, 2010, the shareholders (1) received and considered the Company's Irish Statutory Accounts and the reports of the Directors and the auditors thereon; (2) elected all eleven of the Company's nominees for director; (3) appointed Deloitte and Touche LLP to serve as the Company's independent auditors for the fiscal year ending September 24, 2010 and authorized the Audit Committee to set the auditors' remuneration; (4) authorized the Company and/or any subsidiary of the Company to make market purchases of the Company's shares; and (5) passed a special resolution authorizing the reissue price range of treasury shares. Shares were voted on these proposals as follows:
To receive and consider the Company's Irish Statutory Accounts for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2009 and the reports of the Directors and the auditors thereon:
Proposal 1.
 
To re-elect eleven (11) directors to hold office until the Company's next Annual General Meeting of Shareholders:
Proposals 2(a)-(k).
 
Appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the independent auditors of the Company for the fiscal year ending September 24, 2010 and authorization of the Audit Committee to set the auditors' remuneration:
Proposal 3.
 
To authorize the Company and/or any subsidiary of the Company to make market purchases of Company shares:
Proposal 4.
 
To authorize the reissue price range of treasury shares via special resolution:
Proposal 5.
 
On March 16, 2010, Covidien plc issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors had authorized a program to purchase up to $1 billion of the Company's ordinary shares from time to time, based on market conditions.
A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 18, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Covidien Declares Quarterly Cash Dividend and Announces Share Repurchase Program
DUBLIN, Ireland  March 16, 2010  Covidien plc (NYSE: COV) today announced that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per ordinary share. The dividend is payable on May 14, 2010, to shareholders of record on April 15, 2010.
Covidien also announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a program to purchase up to $1 billion of the Company's ordinary shares from time to time, based on market conditions, primarily to offset dilution related to equity compensation plans.
"The Board's approval of the share repurchase program reflects our confidence in the continued growth of Covidien's business and an ongoing commitment to enhance shareholder value," said Richard J. Meelia, Chairman, President and CEO. "We remain committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet and are confident that this program will allow us to continue to pursue strategic opportunities for growth."
ABOUT COVIDIEN
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in three segments: Medical Devices, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies. With 2009 revenue of $10.7 billion, Covidien has 42,000 employees worldwide in more than 60 countries, and its products are sold in over 140 countries. Please visit www.covidien.com to learn more about our business.
 


