FILE:COV/COV-8K-20100712163030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
On June 1, 2010, Covidien plc's indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Covidien Group S.a.r.l., a Luxembourg company ("Parent"), and Parent's wholly-owned subsidiary, COV Delaware Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Purchaser") entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, as amended (the "Merger Agreement") with ev3 Inc., a Delaware corporation that develops and markets technologies for the endovascular treatment of peripheral vascular and neurovascular diseases ("ev3"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, Purchaser commenced a tender offer (the "Offer") on June 11, 2010 to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of ev3 at a purchase price of $22.50 per share in cash, without interest, less applicable withholding taxes (the "Consideration"), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Purchaser's Offer to Purchase, dated June 11, 2010, and the related Letter of Transmittal, each as amended or supplemented from time to time.
On July 12, 2010, Covidien plc announced the completion of the Offer. The initial offering period of the Offer expired at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, at the end of July 9, 2010. According to Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., the depositary for the Offer, as of 12:00 midnight, New York City time, at the end of July 9, 2010, a total of approximately 100,814,535 shares of ev3 common stock were validly tendered and not withdrawn in the Offer, which represented approximately 87.68% of all issued and outstanding shares of ev3 common stock. Purchaser has accepted for payment all shares of ev3 common stock that were validly tendered and not withdrawn, and payment for such shares has been or will be made promptly, in accordance with the terms of the Offer. Parent provided sufficient funds to Purchaser to acquire all of the outstanding shares of ev3 common stock through a combination of cash on hand and the proceeds from a debt offering by Covidien International Finance, S.A., the parent company of Parent and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Covidien plc.
On July 12, 2010, pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Purchaser exercised its top-up option, provided for in Section 1.4 of the Merger Agreement, to purchase directly from ev3 an additional number of shares of ev3 common stock sufficient to give Purchaser ownership of one share more than 90% of the then outstanding shares of ev3 common stock, when combined with the shares Purchaser purchased in the Offer. Pursuant to the exercise of this top-up option, Purchaser purchased directly from ev3 a total of 26,675,587 newly issued shares of ev3 common stock (the "Top-Up Shares") at a price of $22.50 per share in consideration for a combination of cash and a promissory note issued to ev3 in the aggregate amount of $600,200,707.50. Following the purchase of the Top-Up Shares, on July 12, 2010, Purchaser effected a short-form merger (the "Merger") of Purchaser with and into ev3 under Delaware law, without the need for a meeting of the ev3's stockholders, with ev3 surviving as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Covidien plc. At the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of ev3 common stock that was not tendered pursuant to the Offer was cancelled and converted into the right to receive the Consideration (other than shares of ev3 common stock that are held as treasury stock, held by Parent or Purchaser or held by stockholders, if any, who properly exercise appraisal rights under Delaware law).
The aggregate consideration, in the Offer and the Merger, for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of ev3 is approximately $2.6 billion.
Item 8.01 Other Events
On July 12, 2010, Covidien plc issued a press release announcing the results of the Offer, and a press release announcing that it had completed its acquisition of ev3. A copy of each press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 12, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
DUBLIN, Ireland  July 12, 2010  Covidien (NYSE: COV), a leading global provider of healthcare products, today announced the successful completion of its tender offer through its subsidiary, COV Delaware Corporation, to purchase all of the outstanding shares of common stock of ev3 Inc. The tender offer expired at 12:00 midnight ET, at the end of July 9, 2010, and was not extended.
The depositary for the tender offer has advised Covidien that, as of the expiration of the offering period, a total of approximately 100,814,535 shares of ev3 common stock were validly tendered and not withdrawn (not including approximately 4,246,384 shares subject to guaranteed delivery procedures), representing approximately 87.7% of the outstanding ev3 common shares. All shares that were validly tendered and not withdrawn during the initial offering period have been accepted for payment.
Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, COV Delaware Corporation will exercise its option to purchase newly issued shares from ev3 at the tender offer price, which will permit Covidien to complete the acquisition process by effecting a short-form merger as promptly as practicable, that is, without a vote or meeting of ev3's remaining stockholders. Following the merger, ev3 will become an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Covidien, and each share of ev3's outstanding common stock will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive the same consideration, without interest, received by holders who tendered in the tender offer. Thereafter, ev3 common stock will cease to be traded on the NASDAQ.
About Covidien
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in three segments: Medical Devices, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies. With 2009 revenue of $10.7 billion, Covidien has 42,000 employees worldwide in more than 60 countries, and its products are sold in over 140 countries. Please visit to learn more about our business.
www.covidien.com
 

Exhibit 99.2
DUBLIN, Ireland  July 12, 2010  Covidien (NYSE: COV), a leading global provider of healthcare products, today announced that it has completed the previously announced acquisition of ev3 Inc. for an aggregate consideration of approximately $2.6 billion, net of cash and short-term investments acquired.
The tender offer expired at 12:00 midnight ET, at the end of July 9, 2010. At that time, the depositary for the offer advised Covidien that 100,814,535 shares of ev3 common stock had been validly tendered and not withdrawn, representing approximately 87.7% of the outstanding ev3 common shares. All shares that were validly tendered and not withdrawn were accepted for purchase and paid for in accordance with the tender offer. An additional 4,246,384 shares, or approximately 3.7% of the outstanding ev3 common shares, had been tendered pursuant to notices of guaranteed delivery.
Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, COV Delaware Corporation, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Covidien, exercised its option to purchase newly issued shares from ev3 at the tender offer price. Following the purchase, COV Delaware Corporation owned sufficient shares to effect a short-form merger with and into ev3. The merger was completed today and ev3 became an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Covidien. Thereafter, ev3 common stock ceased to be traded on the NASDAQ.
This transaction further accelerates Covidien's strategy of building a world-class vascular platform addressing high-growth markets and positions Covidien to become a leading endovascular player, with strong positions in both the peripheral vascular and neurovascular markets. The acquisition brings Covidien a comprehensive portfolio of treatment options, including the primary interventional technologies used today: peripheral angioplasty balloons, stents, plaque excision systems, embolic protection devices, liquid embolics, embolization coils, flow diversion, thrombectomy catheters and occlusion balloons.
"The acquisition of ev3 will enable Covidien to significantly expand its presence in the vascular market and is in line with our strategy of becoming a leading partner with vascular surgeons, neurosurgeons, interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists," said Richard J. Meelia, Chairman, President and CEO. "With its broad product portfolio, clinical expertise and call-point synergies with our existing vascular franchise, ev3 will be an important addition to our innovative vascular intervention products."
Covidien will report ev3 as part of its Vascular Products line in the Medical Devices business segment.
About Covidien
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in three segments: Medical Devices, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies. With 2009 revenue of $10.7 billion, Covidien has 42,000 employees worldwide in more than 60 countries, and its products are sold in over 140 countries. Please visit to learn more about our business.
www.covidien.com
 


