FILE:COV/COV-8K-20100728110434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On July 27, 2010, Covidien plc issued a press release announcing the results of a tender offer by Covidien DE Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Covidien plc through its wholly-owned subsidiary, United States Surgical Corporation, to purchase all of the outstanding common shares of Somanetics Corporation.
On July 28, 2010, Covidien plc issued a press release announcing that it had completed its acquisition of Somanetics Corporation through United States Surgical Corporation.
Copies of the press releases are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this current Report and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 28, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
DUBLIN, Ireland  July 27, 2010  Covidien (NYSE: COV), a leading global provider of healthcare products, today announced the completion of its tender offer through its subsidiary, Covidien DE Corp., to purchase all of the outstanding common shares of Somanetics Corporation. The tender offer expired at 12:01AM ET, on July 27, 2010, and was not extended.
The depositary for the tender offer has advised Covidien that, as of the expiration of the offering period, a total of approximately 9,583,628 common shares of Somanetics were validly tendered and not withdrawn (not including approximately 581,060 shares subject to guaranteed delivery procedures), representing approximately 80.2% of the outstanding Somanetics common shares. All shares that were validly tendered and not properly withdrawn during the initial offering period have been accepted for payment.
About Covidien
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in three segments: Medical Devices, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies. With 2009 revenue of $10.7 billion, Covidien has 42,000 employees worldwide in more than 60 countries, and its products are sold in over 140 countries. Please visit www.covidien.com to learn more about our business.
Contacts
 

Exhibit 99.2
DUBLIN, Ireland  July 28, 2010  Covidien (NYSE: COV), a leading global provider of healthcare products, today announced that it has completed the previously announced acquisition of Somanetics Corporation for an aggregate consideration of approximately $250 million, net of cash and short-term investments acquired.
Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, Covidien DE Corp., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Covidien, exercised its option to purchase newly issued shares from Somanetics at the tender offer price of $25.00 per share. Following the purchase, Covidien DE Corp. owned sufficient shares to effect a short-form merger with and into Somanetics, which then became an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Covidien. Thereafter, Somanetics common shares ceased to be traded on the NASDAQ Global Market.
About Covidien
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in three segments: Medical Devices, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies. With 2009 revenue of $10.7 billion, Covidien has 42,000 employees worldwide in more than 60 countries, and its products are sold in over 140 countries. Please visit www.covidien.com to learn more about our business.
 


