FILE:COV/COV-8K-20110815171019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On August 9, 2011, Covidien plc (the "Company") entered into a $1.5 billion, five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility by and among the Company, as Guarantor, Covidien International Finance S.A., a subsidiary of the Company, as Borrower ("CIFSA") , Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent and various Lenders (the "Credit Agreement"). CIFSA may, at its option, seek to increase the aggregate commitment under the Credit Agreement by up to $500 million up to a maximum aggregate commitment of $2.0 billion provided that the relevant borrowing conditions under the Credit Agreement are met at that time. The proceeds of loans under the Credit Agreement can be used for working capital, capital expenditures and other lawful corporate purposes. The Credit Agreement replaces a prior Amended and Restated Five-Year Senior Credit Agreement dated as of June 4, 2009 (the "Prior Credit Agreement") which was scheduled to mature in April 2012 and which was terminated in connection with entry into the Credit Agreement. CIFSA was also the Borrower and the Company was also a Guarantor under the Prior Credit Agreement. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Borrowings under the Credit Agreement will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at CIFSA's option, any of the following, plus, in each case, an applicable margin: (a) a base rate determined by reference to the highest of (1) the base rate of Citibank, N.A., (2) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50% and (3) a LIBO rate for one month period determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for an interest period of one month adjusted for certain additional costs, plus 1.00% or (b) a LIBO rate determined by reference to the costs of funds for U.S. dollar deposits for the relevant interest period adjusted for certain additional costs. The applicable margin for borrowings under the Credit Agreement is subject to adjustments based on the credit ratings for the senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness of CIFSA that is not guaranteed by any other Person other than the Company or Covidien Ltd. or subject to any other credit enhancement and varies from 12.5 basis points to 50 basis points with respect to base rate borrowings and from 75 basis points to 150 basis points with respect to LIBO rate borrowings. In addition, CIFSA is required to pay a commitment fee between 7.5 to 20 basis points (depending on the credit ratings of CIFSA's senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness that is not guaranteed by any other Person other than the Company or Covidien Ltd. or subject to any other credit enhancement) on the aggregate unused commitments under the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement contains financial and other covenants, including a maximum consolidated total-debt-to-consolidated EBITDA ratio covenant, as well as events of default with respect to the Company, CIFSA and in some circumstances their Significant Subsidiaries, which covenants and events of default are customary for facilities of this type.
The obligations of the lenders under the Credit Agreement to provide advances will terminate on the earlier of (i) August 9, 2016 and (ii) the date on which the commitments shall have been reduced to zero or terminated in whole pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement including by reason of an event of default.
The description above is a summary of the Credit Agreement and is qualified in its entirety by the complete text of the Agreement, a copy of which is attached to this report as and incorporated herein by reference.
Exhibit 10.1
In the ordinary course of business, certain of the lenders under the Credit Agreement and their affiliates have provided, and may in the future provide, investment banking, commercial banking, cash management, foreign exchange or other financial services to the Company for which they have received compensation and may receive compensation in the future.
Items 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information described above under "Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 15, 2011
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
FIVE-YEAR SENIOR CREDIT AGREEMENT (this "") dated as of August 9, 2011, among COVIDIEN INTERNATIONAL FINANCE S.A., a Luxembourg company (the ""), COVIDIEN PLC, an Irish company (the ""), the LENDERS, and CITIBANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
Guarantor
WHEREAS, the Borrower and the Guarantor have requested that the Lenders provide revolving credit to the Borrower for the purposes set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the Lenders have agreed to make the requested facilities available on terms and conditions set forth herein;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of these premises and the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
Section 1.01As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
. Defined Terms.
"" when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, means that such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" on any date means the amount of "" of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter of the Guarantor prior to such date of determination determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income
Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.04(b).
Additional Lender
"" means Citibank, in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
"" means the office address, facsimile number, electronic mail address, telephone number and account information set forth on Schedule 10.01 with respect to the Administrative Agent or such other address, facsimile number, electronic mail address, telephone number or account
Administrative Agent's Office
information as shall be designated by the Administrative Agent in a notice to the Borrower and the Lenders.
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by or is under common control with the Person specified. For purposes of this definition, the term "" (including the terms "" and "") means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
control
controlling
under common control with
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Base Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus
Alternate Base Rate
 1
/
2
of 1% and (c) the LIBO Rate for a one month interest period commencing on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) plus 1%.
"" means, with respect to Eurodollar Loans, the "Applicable Margin (LIBOR)" and with respect to ABR Loans, the "Applicable Margin (ABR)", each as set forth on the Pricing Grid for the then applicable Rating Level.
Applicable Margin
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage (rounded to the ninth decimal) of the total Commitments in effect at any given time represented by such Lender's then applicable Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the outstanding principal amounts of the Loans made by the respective Lenders.
Applicable Percentage
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.04.
Approved Fund
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 10.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of Exhibit B or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
"" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Maturity Date and the date of termination of the Commitments.
Availability Period
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by Citibank as its base rate in effect at its principal office in New York City. Any change in such rate shall take effect on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
 
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Borrower
"" means Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect.
Borrowing
"" means a request by the Borrower for a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
Borrowing Request
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market.
Business Day
provided
"" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of Section 9.03(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement; provided however, that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives thereunder, issued in connection therewith or in implementation thereof and (ii) all requests, rules, guidelines, requirements and directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law" regardless of the date enacted, adopted, issued or implemented.
Change in Law
"" means Citibank, N.A.
Citibank
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" means, with respect to each Lender at any time, the commitment of such Lender to make Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder at such time, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.07, (b) increased pursuant to Section 2.04 and
Commitment
 
(c) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 10.04. The amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments as of the date hereof is $1,500,000,000.
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.10(a)(ii).
Commitment Fee
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.15.
Communications
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.05(b).
Compensation Period
"" means Taxes that are imposed on or measured by net income (however denominated) or that are franchise Taxes or branch profits Taxes and, in each case, are imposed as a result of a present or former connection between the Lender or Administrative Agent and the jurisdiction imposing such Tax (other than connections arising from such Lender or Administrative Agent having executed, delivered, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, engaged in any other transaction pursuant to or enforced any Loan Document, or sold or assigned an interest in any Loan or Loan Document).
Connection Income Taxes
"" refers to the consolidation of accounts of the Guarantor and its consolidated Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated
"" means, for any fiscal period, Consolidated Net Income for such period plus the following, to the extent deducted in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (a) Consolidated Interest Expense, (b) income tax expense, (c) depreciation and amortization expense, (d) any extraordinary expenses or losses, (e) losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business and losses from discontinued operations, (f) any losses on the retirement of debt identified in the Consolidated statements of cash flows and (g) any other nonrecurring or non-cash charges and expenses (including charges and expenses incurred with respect to the Transactions), and minus, to the extent included in calculating such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) any extraordinary income or gains, (b) gains on the sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business and gains from discontinued operations, (c) any gains on the retirement of debt identified in the Consolidated statements of cash flows and (d) any other nonrecurring or non-cash income, all as determined on a Consolidated basis. If during such period the Guarantor or any Subsidiary shall
Consolidated EBITDA
 
have made an acquisition or disposition, Consolidated EBITDA for such period shall be calculated after giving effect thereto as if such acquisition or disposition occurred on the first day of such period.
pro forma
"" means, for any fiscal period (without duplication), (a) the Consolidated interest expense of the Guarantor and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period (b) if a Permitted Securitization Transaction outstanding during such period is accounted for as a sale of accounts receivable, chattel paper, general intangibles or the like under GAAP, the additional Consolidated interest expense that would have accrued during such period had such Permitted Securitization Transaction been accounted for as a borrowing during such period, determined on a Consolidated basis.
Consolidated Interest Expense
plus
"" means, for any fiscal period, the Consolidated net income of the Guarantor for such period.
Consolidated Net Income
"" means, at any time, the total assets less all Intangible Assets appearing on the Consolidated balance sheet of the Guarantor as of the end of the most recently concluded fiscal quarter of the Guarantor.
Consolidated Tangible Assets
"" means, as of any date of determination, the aggregate amount of Debt of the Guarantor determined on a Consolidated basis, as of such date; that Guarantees shall be valued at the amount thereof, if any, reflected on the Consolidated balance sheet of the Guarantor; , that if a Permitted Securitization Transaction is outstanding at such date and is accounted for as a sale of accounts receivable, chattel paper, general intangibles, or the like, under GAAP, Consolidated Total Debt determined as aforesaid shall be adjusted to include the additional Debt, determined on a consolidated basis as of such date, which would have been outstanding at such date had such Permitted Securitization Transaction been accounted for as a borrowing at such date; , , that Consolidated Total Debt shall not include Debt of a joint venture, partnership or similar entity which is Guaranteed by the Guarantor or a Consolidated Subsidiary by virtue of the joint venture, partnership or similar arrangement with respect to such entity or by operation of applicable law (and not otherwise) except to the extent that the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such excluded Debt at such date exceeds $50,000,000.
Consolidated Total Debt
provided
provided
further
provided
further
"" means Covidien Ltd., a Bermuda company, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Guarantor.
Covidien Ltd.
"" means, at any time, the rating of the Index Debt published by Fitch, Moody's or S&P, as the case may be, at such time.
Credit Rating
 
"" of any Person means, at any date, without duplication, (a) the principal of all obligations of such Person for borrowed money; (b) the principal of all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments; (c) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services recorded on the books of such Person (except for (i) trade and similar accounts payable and accrued expenses, (ii) employee compensation, deferred compensation and pension obligations, and other obligations arising from employee benefit programs and agreements or other similar employment arrangements, (iii) obligations in respect of customer advances received and (iv) obligations in connection with earnout and holdback agreements, in each case in the ordinary course of business); (d) any obligation of such Person to reimburse the issuer of any letter of credit, performance bond, performance guaranty or bank guaranty issued for the account of such Person upon which, and only to the extent that, a drawing has been made (or such reimbursement obligation is otherwise not contingent) and such non-contingent obligation is not reimbursed within five Business Days; (e) the net capitalized amount of all obligations of such person as lessee which are capitalized on the books of such Person in accordance with GAAP; (f) all Debt of others secured by any Lien on property of such Person, whether or not the Debt secured thereby has been assumed, but (if such debt has not been assumed) only to the extent of the lesser of the face amount of the obligation or the fair market value of the assets so subject to the Lien; and (g) all Guarantees by such Person of Debt of others (except the Guarantor or any Subsidiary); that the term "Debt" shall not include:
Debt
provided
(A) Intercompany Debt (except that, for the purposes of Sections 5.10 and 5.11, Debt shall include Intercompany Debt); or
(B) obligations in respect of trade letters of credit or bank guaranties supporting trade and similar accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business; or
(C) Nonrecourse Debt.
"" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means, at any time, a Lender (i) that has failed for three or more Business Days to comply with its obligations under this Agreement to make a Loan (a ""), (ii) that has notified the Administrative Agent, or has stated publicly, that it will not comply with any such funding obligation hereunder, or has defaulted on its funding obligations under any other loan agreement or credit agreement or other similar agreement, (iii) that has, for three or more Business Days, failed to confirm in writing to the Administrative
Defaulting Lender
funding obligation
 
Agent, in response to a written request of the Administrative Agent, that it will comply with its funding obligations hereunder, (iv) with respect to which a Lender Insolvency Event has occurred and is continuing or (v) that has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within three Business Days of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute;, that any determination that a Lender is a Defaulting Lender under clauses (i) through (v) above will be made by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion acting in good faith; that the Administrative Agent shall not unreasonably reject a request by the Borrower that a Lender be declared a Defaulting Lender. The Administrative Agent will promptly send to all parties hereto notice of any Lender being determined to be a Defaulting Lender.
provided
however
provided
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
dollars
$
"" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied or waived.
Effective Date
"" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, health, safety or Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Guarantor or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" means any Person, trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code or Section 4001(b)(3) of ERISA.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan; (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of
ERISA Event
 
ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by the Guarantor or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA (other than payment of PBGC premiums) with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by the Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to the PBGC's intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by the Guarantor or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (g) the receipt by the Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from the Guarantor or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA; or (h) the failure to timely make any required contribution or premium payment in respect of any Plan or contribution in respect of any Multiemployer Plan.
"" in respect of any Lender and for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal) in effect on such day and applicable to such Lender under Regulation D promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for determining such Lender's reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to "Eurocurrency liabilities", as in effect from time to time ("").
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
FRB Regulation D
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, means that such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the applicable LIBO Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
Eurodollar
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article 6.
Event of Default
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of any Obligor hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income (other than Taxes withheld at the source) and branch profits taxes imposed by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under Section 10.04(e)), any United States withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with Section 9.05(e) or 9.05(f) (except to the extent such failure is attributable to a Change in Law after such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender
Excluded Taxes
 
(or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from any Obligor with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 9.05(a) and (c) any United States federal withholding taxes imposed under FATCA.
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with) and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
"" means that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of June 4, 2009 among the Borrower, the Guarantor, Covidien Ltd., the Lenders party thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Existing Credit Agreement
"" means, for any day, the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means each of (i) the respective fee letters dated July 8, 2011 between the Borrower and each Joint Lead Arranger and (iii) the fee letter dated July 8, 2011 between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Fee Letters
"" means Fitch, Inc.
Fitch
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Lender
"" means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States of America or any political subdivision thereof, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.04(g).
Granting Lender
"" of or by any Person (the "") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Debt or other obligation of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Debt or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Debt or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Debt or obligation;, that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Guarantor
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes.
Hazardous Materials
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.04(a).
Increased Commitments
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes, imposed on or with respect to any payment made by any Obligor under any Loan Document.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of the Borrower that is not guaranteed by any other Person other than the Guarantor or Covidien Ltd. or subject to any other credit enhancement.
Index Debt
"" means, at any date, the amount (if any) stated under the heading "Goodwill and Other Intangible assets, net" or under any other heading relating to intangible assets separately listed, in each case, on the face of a balance sheet of the Guarantor prepared on a Consolidated basis as of such date.
Intangible Assets
"" means (i) indebtedness of the Guarantor owed to a Subsidiary and (ii) indebtedness of a Subsidiary owed to the Guarantor or another Subsidiary.
Intercompany Debt
 
"" means a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.06.
Interest Election Request
"" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan, the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part; that, if an Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing is of more than three months' duration, each day within such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period shall also be an Interest Payment Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
"" means with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the date that is one, two, three or six months thereafter, as the Borrower may elect, upon notice received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, or such other period as requested by the Borrower and available and agreed to by all the Lenders in accordance with Section 2.03(b);, that
Interest Period
provided
(i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
(ii) any Interest Period of one or more whole months that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period; and
(iii) the Borrower may not select any Interest Period that would end after the Maturity Date.
For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
"" means the institutions so identified on the cover page hereof, acting in such capacity.
Joint Lead Arrangers
"" means that (i) a Lender or its Parent Company is insolvent, or is generally unable to pay its debts as they become due, or admits in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due, or makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or (ii) such Lender or its Parent
Lender Insolvency Event
 
Company is the subject of a bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, liquidation or similar proceeding, or a receiver, trustee, conservator, intervenor or sequestrator or the like has been appointed for such Lender or its Parent Company, or such Lender or its Parent Company has taken any action in furtherance of or indicating its consent to or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment.
"" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption.
Lenders
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the British Bankers Association London Interbank Offered Rate (""), as it is published by Reuters or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations of BBA LIBOR, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "LIBO Rate" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $10,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent to major banks in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
BBA LIBOR
"" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset, including the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement.
Lien
"" means this Agreement, each Note (if any), the Fee Letters and each Subsidiary Guaranty (if any).
Loan Documents
"" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the Consolidated financial condition, business or operations of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Obligors to perform their obligations under the Loan Documents or (c) the rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders under the Loan Documents.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" means Debt (other than Loans or other Debt under this Agreement) of any one or more of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $100,000,000.
Material Debt
"" means August 9, 2016.
Maturity Date
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor to its business of rating debt securities.
Moody's
"" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means, at any time, all Debt of Subsidiaries (and all other Persons which are Consolidated on the Guarantor's financial statements in accordance with GAAP (such Subsidiaries or other Persons, a "")) of the Guarantor's outstanding at such time incurred on terms that recourse may be had to such Consolidated Person only by enforcing the lender's default remedies with respect to specific assets which constitute collateral security for such Debt and not by way of action against such Consolidated Person (nor against the Guarantor or such other Consolidated Person of the Guarantor) as a general obligor in respect of such Debt (subject to, for the avoidance of doubt, customary exceptions contained in non-recourse financings to the non-recourse nature of the obligations thereunder).
Nonrecourse Debt
Consolidated Person
"" means a promissory note substantially in the form of Exhibit A made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, to the extent requested by such Lender pursuant to Section 2.08(e).
Note
"" means the Borrower and the Guarantor.
Obligors
"" means any and all present or future, stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies (together with any addition to tax, penalty, fine or interest thereon) arising from any payment made under any Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, any Loan Document, except any such taxes that are imposed with respect to an assignment as a result of a present or former connection between a Lender and the jurisdiction imposing such tax (other than connections arising from such Lender having executed, delivered, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, engaged in any other transaction pursuant to or enforced any Loan Document, or sold or assigned an interest in any Loan or Loan Document).
Other Taxes
"" means, with respect to a Lender, the bank holding company (as defined in Federal Reserve Board Regulation Y), if any, of such
Parent Company
 
Lender, and/or any Person owning, beneficially or of record, directly or indirectly, a majority of the shares of such Lender.
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.04.
Participant
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
"" means any sale or sales of any accounts receivable, general intangibles, chattel paper or other financial assets and related rights and assets of the Guarantor and/or any of its Subsidiaries, and financing secured by the assets so sold, pursuant to which the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries realize aggregate net proceeds of not more than the greater of $500,000,000 and an amount equal to 5.0% of Consolidated Tangible Assets, including, without limitation, any revolving purchase(s) of such assets where the maximum aggregate uncollected purchase price (exclusive of any deferred purchase price) therefor does not exceed such amount.
Permitted Securitization Transaction
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.15.
Platform
"" means any preferred and/or redeemable capital stock of the Guarantor or any Subsidiary, as the case may be, that, by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible or for which it is exchangeable at the option of the holder thereof), or upon the happening of any event, matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or redeemable at the option of the holder, in whole or in part, on or prior to the Maturity Date.
Preferred Stock
"" means the Pricing Grid and the conventions for determining pricing as set forth on Schedule 1.01.
Pricing Grid
"" means Level I, Level II, Level III, Level IV, Level V or Level VI, in each case as defined in Schedule 1.01 and based on the then applicable Credit Ratings.
Rating Level
 
"" means, with respect to any financing, any instrument or agreement amending, restating, supplementing, extending, renewing, refunding, refinancing, replacing or otherwise modifying, in whole or in part, the documents governing such financing (and "" shall have a correlative meaning).
Refinancing
Refinance
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.04.
Register
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means any action, suit or proceeding or investigation before any court, arbitrator or other governmental body against the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or any ERISA Event, in each case that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Reportable Action
"" means, at any time, Lenders (not including the Borrower or any of its Affiliates) having aggregate Applicable Percentages in excess of 50% at such time.
Required Lenders
"" means any of the following: (i) the Chief Executive Officer, President, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or Secretary of the Borrower or a Managing Director of the Borrower or (ii) the Chief Executive Officer, President, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or Secretary of the Guarantor.
Responsible Officer
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Loans at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor to its business of rating debt securities.
S&P
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
"" means, at any date, any Subsidiary which, including its subsidiaries, meets any of the following conditions:
Significant Subsidiary
(i) the proportionate share attributable to such Subsidiary of the total assets of the Guarantor (after intercompany eliminations) exceeds 15% of the total assets of the Guarantor, determined on a Consolidated basis as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year; or
 
(ii) the Guarantor's and its Subsidiaries' equity in the income of such Subsidiary from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles exceeds 15% of Consolidated income of the Guarantor from continuing operations before income taxes, any loss on the retirement of debt, extraordinary items, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles, and before any impairment charges, determined for the most recently completed fiscal year.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Covidien Ltd. shall not be deemed a "Significant Subsidiary" for the purposes of this Agreement unless it is required to become a Subsidiary Guarantor pursuant to Section 5.12(b). For the avoidance of doubt, the Borrower shall at all times be deemed a "Significant Subsidiary".
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.04(g).
SPC
"" means, with respect to any Person, any capital stock or equity securities of or other ownership interests in such Person.
Stock
"" means, with respect to any Person, options, warrants, calls or other rights entered into or issued by such Person to acquire any Stock of, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for Stock of, such Person.
Stock Equivalents
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person.
subsidiary
"" means any subsidiary of the Guarantor.
Subsidiary
"" means each Subsidiary that has executed a Subsidiary Guaranty pursuant to Section 5.12.
Subsidiary Guarantor
"" means a guaranty entered into by a Subsidiary in substantially the form of Exhibit D, with any such modifications to such form as may be necessary or advisable and customary under the local law of the jurisdiction of organization of the relevant Subsidiary, in the judgment of the Obligors.
Subsidiary Guaranty
"" means that certain Tax Sharing Agreement dated as of June 29, 2007 among Tyco International Ltd., Covidien Ltd. and Tyco Electronics Ltd.
Tax Sharing Arrangement
 
"" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed or asserted by any Governmental Authority, together with any addition to tax, penalty, fine or interest thereon.
Taxes
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Obligors of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, the borrowing of Loans and the use of the proceeds thereof.
Transactions
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.10(a)(i).
Upfront Fee
"" means any Consolidated Subsidiary all of the shares of capital stock or other ownership interests of which (except directors' qualifying shares and investments by foreign nationals mandated by applicable law) are at the time beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by the Guarantor.
Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary
"" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
Section 1.02For purposes of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, Loans or Borrowings may be classified and referred to by Type (e.g., a "" or an "").
. Classification of Loans and Borrowings.
Eurodollar Loan
ABR Borrowing
Section 1.03With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
. Terms Generally.
The definitions of terms herein and therein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "", "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "". The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements
include
includes
including
without limitation
will
shall
 
or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "", "" and "", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear and (e) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
herein
hereof
hereunder
asset
property
Section 1.04Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision, regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then (i) the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such provision to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders) and (ii) such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
. Accounting Terms; GAAP.
provided
Section 2.01Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (i) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (ii) the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Loans.
. Commitments.
Section 2.02(a) Each Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their then applicable respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder.
. Loans and Borrowings.
 
(b) Subject to Section 9.03, each Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurodollar Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurodollar Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or result in any obligations of the Borrower to pay additional amounts under Section 9.03 or 9.05.
provided
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurodollar Borrowing, and at the time each ABR Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 (except that any such Borrowing may be in the aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments). Borrowings of more than one Type may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not be more than a total of 10 Eurodollar Borrowings outstanding at the same time.
provided
Section 2.03(a) To request a Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone, facsimile or electronic mail (i) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing (except as provided in Section 2.03(b)) or (ii) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and if made telephonically, shall be confirmed promptly, by hand delivery, facsimile or electronic mail of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent, and be executed by a Managing Director of the Borrower or another authorized borrowing representative of the Borrower, as notified by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent from time to time. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
. Requests for Borrowings.
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing;
(iv) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and
 
(v) the location and number of the Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.05.
If no election as to the Type of Borrowing is specified, then the requested Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
(b) The Borrower may request a Eurodollar Borrowing having an Interest Period other than one, two, three or six months in duration as provided in the definition of "Interest Period" by notifying the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, four Business Days prior to the requested date of such Borrowing having such Interest Period, whereupon the Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Lenders of such request and determine whether the requested Interest Period is acceptable to all of them; and not later than 8:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Business Day after receiving such request from the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower whether or not the requested Interest Period has been agreed to by all the Lenders. If such requested Interest Period is so approved by all of the Lenders, the Borrower may thereafter from time to time elect to make Borrowing Requests under Section 2.03(a) and Interest Election Requests under Section 2.06(c) designating such Interest Period, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders have elected to revoke such approval.
Section 2.04.
. Increased Commitments; Additional Lenders
(a) From time to time the Borrower may, upon at least seven Business Days' notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly provide a copy of such notice to the Lenders), increase the aggregate amount of the Commitments by an amount not less than $25,000,000 (the amount of any such increase, the "").
Increased Commitments
(b) To effect such an increase, the Borrower may designate one or more of the existing Lenders or other financial institutions reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent which at the time agree to (i) in the case of any such lender that is an existing Lender, increase its Commitment and (ii) in the case of any other such lender (an ""), become a party to this Agreement with a Commitment of not less than $10,000,000; it being understood that no existing Lender shall have any obligation to increase its Commitment.
Additional Lender
 
(c) Any increase in the Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.04 shall be subject to satisfaction of the following conditions:
(i) after giving effect to such increase, the conditions contained in Sections 4.02(a) and (b) would be satisfied with respect to a Borrowing on the date of such increase; and
(ii) after giving effect to such increase, the aggregate amount of all Commitments shall not exceed $2,000,000,000.
(d) An increase in the aggregate amount of the Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.04 shall become effective upon the receipt by the Administrative Agent of (i) an agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent signed by the Obligors, by each Additional Lender and by each other Lender whose Commitment is to be increased, setting forth the new Commitments of such Lenders and setting forth the agreement of each Additional Lender to become a party to this Agreement and to be bound by all the terms and provisions hereof, (ii) such evidence of appropriate corporate authorization on the part of the Obligors with respect to the Increased Commitments and such opinions of counsel for the Obligors with respect to the Increased Commitments as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request and (iii) a certificate of a Responsible Officer of each Obligor stating that the conditions set forth in subsection (c) above have been satisfied.
(e) Upon any increase in the aggregate amount of the Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.04 at any time any Loans are outstanding, each Lender immediately prior to such increase will automatically and without further act be deemed to have assigned to each Lender providing a portion of the Increased Commitments a portion of its then outstanding Loans such that, after giving effect to each such deemed assignment and the Increased Commitments, the percentage of the aggregate outstanding Loans held by each Lender is equal to its percentage of the aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments.
Section 2.05(a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 1:00 p.m., New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in Section 4.02 (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Borrowing, Section 4.01), the Administrative Agent will make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of the Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent in New York City or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to the Administrative Agent in the applicable Borrowing Request.
. Funding of Borrowings.
 
(b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, or by 12:00 p.m. New York City time on the proposed date of such Borrowing, in the case of ABR Borrowings, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender did not make available such Lender's share of such Borrowing, then such Lender shall forthwith on demand pay to the Administrative Agent the amount thereof in immediately available funds, together with interest thereon for the period from the date such amount was made available by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower to the date such amount is recovered by the Administrative Agent (the "") at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Effective Rate from time to time in effect plus the Administrative Agent's standard processing fee for interbank compensation. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in the applicable Borrowing. If such Lender does not pay such amount forthwith upon the Administrative Agent's demand therefor, the Administrative Agent may make a demand therefor upon the Borrower, and the Borrower shall pay such amount to the Administrative Agent, together with the interest thereon for the Compensation Period at a rate per annum equal to the rate of interest applicable to the applicable Borrowing. Nothing herein shall be deemed to relieve any Lender from its obligation to fulfill its Commitment or to prejudice any rights which the Administrative Agent or the Borrower may have against any Lender as a result of any default by such Lender hereunder.
Compensation Period
Section 2.06.
Interest Elections.
(a) Each Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing.
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone, facsimile or electronic mail by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under
 
Section 2.03 if the Borrower were requesting a Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and, if made telephonically, shall be confirmed promptly in a signed notice by hand delivery, facsimile or electronic mail to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent.
(c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period", subject to Section 2.03(b).
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(e) If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurodollar Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default under clause (a) or (b) of Article 6 has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower, then, so long as such Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing and (ii)
 
unless repaid, each Eurodollar Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
Section 2.07.
Termination and Reduction of Commitments.
(a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date.
(b) The Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.09, the total Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the total Commitments.
provided
(c) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof, provided that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
(d) The Borrower may terminate the unused amount of the Commitment of a Defaulting Lender upon not less than three (3) Business Days' prior notice to the Administrative Agent (which will promptly notify the Lenders thereof), and in such event the provisions of Section 2.13(b) will apply to all amounts thereafter paid by the Borrower for the account of such Defaulting Lender under this Agreement (whether on account of principal, interest, fees, indemnity or other amounts), provided that such termination will not be deemed to be a waiver or release of any claim the Borrower, the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender.
Section 2.08.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt.
(a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Loan on the Maturity Date.
 
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents.
provided
(e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a Note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns). Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such Note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 10.04) be represented by one or more Notes payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such Note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
Section 2.09.
Prepayment of Loans.
(a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part without penalty or premium subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section.
(b) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed in a signed notice sent by facsimile or electronic mail) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment, or (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid that, if a notice of optional prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.07(c), then such notice of
provided
 
prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.07(c). Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02(c). Each prepayment of a Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.11 and break funding payments to the extent required by Section 9.04.
Section 2.10.
Fees.
(a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent the following fees:
(i) for the account of each Lender on the Effective Date, an upfront fee in an amount equal to the product of (x) such Lender's Commitment amount, multiplied by (y) the percentage heretofore mutually agreed (the "").
Upfront Fee
(ii) for the account of each Lender, a commitment fee, which shall accrue on the daily amount of the then applicable unused Commitment of such Lender during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates, at the applicable rate per annum set forth on the Pricing Grid under the heading "Commitment Fee"(the ""); Commitment Fees accrued through and including the last Business Day of March, June, September and December of each year shall be payable on each such last day, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand.
Commitment Fee
provided
(b) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent and the Joint Lead Arrangers, for their own accounts, the fees payable in the amounts and at the times agreed in the Fee Letters. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
(c) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent for distribution, in the case of Upfront Fees and Commitment Fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
(d) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, during such period as a Lender is a Defaulting Lender, such Defaulting Lender will not be entitled to
 
any fees accruing during such period pursuant to Section 2.10(a)(ii) (without prejudice to the rights of the Lenders other than Defaulting Lenders in respect of fees under such Section).
Section 2.11.
Interest.
(a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the sum of the Alternate Base Rate, plus the Applicable Margin.
(b) The Loans comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the sum of the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Margin.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(d) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and upon termination of the Commitments; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurodollar Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
provided
Section 2.12.
Calculation of Interest and Fees.
(a) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Base Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
 
(b) All fees hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
Section 2.13.
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs.
(a) The Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest or fees, or of amounts payable under Section 9.03, 9.04 or 9.05, or otherwise) prior to 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon; that no amount shall be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day if the Borrower provides the Administrative Agent with written confirmation of a Federal Reserve Bank reference number no later than 4:00 p.m. on the date when due. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at the Administrative Agent's Office, except that payments pursuant to Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05 and 10.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall be made in dollars in New York, New York.
provided
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties.
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Loans or other obligations hereunder resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of its Loans and accrued interest thereon or such other obligations greater than its pro rata share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase
 
(for cash at face value) participations in the Loans and such other obligations of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments that shall be equitable so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans and other amounts owing them; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Guarantor or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). The Borrower and the Guarantor each consent to the foregoing and each agree, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower and the Guarantor rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower or the Guarantor in the amount of such participation.
provided
(d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(b), 2.13(d), or 10.03(c), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
 
Each Obligor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
Section 3.01Each Obligor is a company duly organized or formed and validly existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization or formation. Each Obligor has all corporate or other organizational powers and all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted, except to the extent that failure to have any such power or governmental license, authorization, consent or approval could not, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
. Organization; Powers.
Section 3.02The Transactions are within such Obligor's corporate or other organizational powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and, if required, stockholder action. This Agreement and each other Loan Document to which such Obligor is a party has been duly executed and delivered by such Obligor and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Obligor, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
. Authorization; Enforceability.
Section 3.03The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b) will not violate, contravene, or constitute a default under any provision of (i) any applicable law or regulation, (ii) the charter, by-laws or other organizational or constitutional documents of such Obligor, (iii) any order, judgment, decree or injunction of any Governmental Authority, (iv) any agreement or instrument evidencing or governing Debt of such Obligor, except for any contravention or default under any such agreement or instrument evidencing or governing such Debt in an aggregate principal amount, individually or in the aggregate for all such agreements or instruments in respect of which there is a contravention or default, not in excess of $50,000,000 or (v) any other agreement or instrument binding upon such Obligor or its assets, except, in the case of clauses (i), (iii) and (v), where such violation could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
. Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts.
Section 3.04.
Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change.
 
(a) The Guarantor has heretofore furnished to the Administrative Agent its Consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, shareholders equity and cash flows, as and for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2010, reported on by Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent public accountants. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the Consolidated financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Guarantor as of such date and for such period in accordance with GAAP.
(b) Since September 24, 2010, there has been no material adverse change in the consolidated financial condition, business or operations of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Section 3.05.
Litigation and Environmental Matters.
(a) There are no actions, suits, investigations or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Obligors or threatened against the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries (i) which could, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, other than the matters described in, prior to June 5, 2009, Covidien Ltd.'s filings of Form 10K, 10Q or 8K, and as of and after June 5, 2009, the Guarantor's filings of Form 10K, 10Q or 8K, in each case on or before the date hereof (the ""), and other than shareholders' derivative litigation or shareholders' class actions based on the same facts and circumstances as the Existing Litigation, or (ii) that could reasonably be expected to adversely affect the validity or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents or the Transactions.
Existing Litigation
(b) Except with respect to any matters that could not, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect and except for the matters described in, prior to June 5, 2009, Covidien Ltd.'s filings of Form 10K, 10Q or 8K, and as of and after June 5, 2009, the Guarantor's filings of Form 10K, 10Q or 8K, in each case on or before the date hereof, neither the Guarantor nor any of its Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law or (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability.
Section 3.06No Obligor is an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
. Investment Company Status.
Section 3.07Each of the Guarantor and its Significant Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all material Tax returns and
. Taxes.
 
reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Guarantor or such Significant Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.08No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. The present value of all accumulated benefit obligations of all underfunded Plans (based on the assumptions used for purposes of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 715) did not, as of the date of the most recent financial statements reflecting such amounts, exceed the fair market value of the assets of all such underfunded Plans by an amount which could based upon the facts and circumstances existing at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
. ERISA.
Section 3.09All written information heretofore furnished by or on behalf of the Obligors to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, when taken as a whole, does not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements contained herein or therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that with respect to projections and other forward-looking information, the Obligors represent and warrant only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time made, it being understood that projections and forward-looking information are subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the control of the Obligors and that no assurance can be given that such projections will be realized.
. Disclosure.
provided
Section 3.10Each of the Guarantor's Subsidiaries is duly organized or formed, validly existing and (to the extent such concept is applicable to it) in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization or formation, except where the failure to be so organized, existing or in good standing could not, based upon the facts and circumstances existing at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Each such Subsidiary has all legal powers and all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted, except to the extent that failure to have any such power or governmental license, authorization, consent or approval could
. Subsidiaries.
 
not, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence at the time this representation and warranty is made or deemed made, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.11No Obligor is engaged principally or as one of its important activities in the business of buying or carrying margin stock within the meaning of Regulation U of the Board.
. Margin Regulations.
Section 3.12The Guarantor and the Borrower (or any permitted successor pursuant to Section 5.08(a)) together comprise a "group" for the purposes of section 35 of the Irish Companies Act 1990.
. Group Companies.
Section 4.01This Agreement shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 10.02):
. Effective Date.
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received on or before the date of this Agreement from each Obligor and the Administrative Agent either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include facsimile or electronic transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
(b) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received a Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender that requested a Note at least two Business Days prior to the Effective Date in accordance with Section 2.08(e).
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received an opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the date of this Agreement) of (i) the general counsel of the Guarantor in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C-1 of this Agreement, (ii) Allen & Overy, special Luxembourg counsel of the Borrower in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C-2 of this Agreement, (iii) Ropes & Gray LLP, special New York counsel of the Obligors in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C-3 of this Agreement and (iv) Arthur Cox, special Irish counsel of the Guarantor in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C-4 of this Agreement.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received on or before the date of this Agreement certified copies of the charter, by-laws and other constitutive documents of each Obligor and of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of each Obligor authorizing the Transactions, together with incumbency certificates
 
dated the date of this Agreement evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Person authorized to execute and deliver this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and any other documents to be delivered by such Obligor pursuant hereto, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
(e) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the date of this Agreement and signed by a Responsible Officer, confirming that (i) the representations and warranties of each Obligor set forth in Article 3 of this Agreement are true and correct and (ii) no Default has occurred and is continuing.
(f) The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence reasonably satisfactory to it of the consent of CT Corporation System in New York, New York to the appointment and designation provided in Section 10.09(d).
(g) The Administrative Agent shall have received payment of Upfront Fees for the account of each Lender pursuant to Section 2.10(a)(i).
(h) The Borrower shall have paid all fees required to be paid by it on or prior to the Effective Date pursuant to the Fee Letters and, unless waived by the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers, the Borrower shall have paid all legal fees and expenses of the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers required to be paid pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and to the extent invoiced and received by the Borrower at least two days prior to the Effective Date.
(i) The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence reasonably satisfactory to it that the commitments under the Existing Credit Agreement have been, or concurrently with the Effective Date are being terminated and that all amounts due under the Existing Credit Agreement have been paid in full in cash or are being paid in full out of the proceeds of the initial Borrowing under this Agreement.
(j) The Administrative Agent shall have received all documentation and other information reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent or any Lender prior to the Effective Date to comply with any applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations.
Section 4.02The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing (other than any conversion or continuation of an outstanding Loan that does not increase the principal amount thereof) is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
. Each Borrowing.
(a) The representations and warranties of the Obligors set forth in Article 3 of this Agreement (other than, in the case of any Borrowing subsequent
 
to the Effective Date, Section 3.04, Section 3.05(a)(a) or (b), or Section 3.09) or any other Loan Document, or which are contained in any certificate or notice delivered at any time by any Obligor under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing, or if any such representation or warranty was made as of a specific date, such representation and warranty was true and correct in all material respects on and as of such date.
(b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
(c) The Borrower shall have delivered a Borrowing Request in accordance with Section 2.03.
Each Borrowing Request (other than in respect of a conversion or continuation of an outstanding Loan that does not increase the principal amount therof) shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Obligors on the date of such Borrowing Request and the date of the Borrowing requested thereunder as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
From and after the Effective Date, until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable under the Loan Documents shall have been paid in full, the Guarantor (and the Borrower where applicable) covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
Section 5.01The Guarantor will furnish to the Administrative Agent (which, except as otherwise provided below with respect to subsections (a), (b) or (e), the Administrative Agent shall promptly furnish to each Lender):
. Financial Statements and Other Information.
(a) within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Guarantor, its audited Consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all reported on by Deloitte & Touche LLP or other independent public accountants of internationally recognized standing in a manner complying with the applicable rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC;
(b) (i) within 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Guarantor, its Consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and the
 
related statements of operations and cash flows for the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of the previous fiscal year, all certified as to GAAP (subject to the absence of footnotes, audit and normal year-end adjustments) on behalf of the Guarantor by the chief financial officer, the chief accounting officer or treasurer of the Guarantor and (ii) as and when filed with the SEC, for any of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Guarantor, the statement of income of the Guarantor for such fiscal quarter, certified as to GAAP (subject to the absence of footnotes, audit and normal year-end adjustments) on behalf of the Guarantor by the chief financial officer, the chief accounting officer or treasurer of the Guarantor;
(c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate on behalf of the Guarantor signed by the chief financial officer, the chief accounting officer or treasurer of the Guarantor (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and is continuing and, if a Default is continuing, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, and (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating whether the Guarantor was in compliance with Section 5.09;
(d) within five Business Days after any Responsible Officer obtains knowledge of any Default, if such Default is then continuing, a certificate on behalf of the Guarantor signed by a Responsible Officer of the Guarantor setting forth, in reasonable detail, the nature thereof and the action which the Guarantor is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto;
(e) promptly upon the filing thereof, copies of all final registration statements (other than the exhibits thereto and any registration statements on Form S-8 or its equivalent), final reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K (or their equivalents) and proxy statements which the Guarantor or the Borrower shall have filed with the SEC;
(f) promptly upon any Responsible Officer obtaining knowledge of the commencement of any Reportable Action, a certificate on behalf of the Guarantor specifying the nature of such Reportable Action and what action the Guarantor or the applicable Subsidiary is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto; and
(g) from time to time, upon reasonable notice, such other information regarding the financial position or business of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as any Lender through the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
Information required to be delivered pursuant to subsections (a), (b) or (e) above may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been
 
delivered on the date (i) on which the Guarantor posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Guarantor's website on the Internet at www.covidien.com, or at sec.gov/edaux/searches.htm; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Guarantor's behalf, or delivered to the Administrative Agent by the Guarantor in accordance with Section 10.15. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations in subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 5.01 may be satisfied by furnishing (in the manner contemplated hereby) the Guarantor's Form 10-K or 10-Q, as applicable, filed with the SEC.
Section 5.02The Guarantor will:
. Existence; Conduct of Business.
(a) not engage in any material business other than the holding of stock and other investments in its Subsidiaries and activities reasonably related thereto;
(b) cause the Borrower and its other Subsidiaries to not engage in any business other than businesses of the same general type as conducted by the Subsidiaries as of the Effective Date, or which are related thereto or extensions thereof, and other than businesses which are not in the aggregate material to the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; and
(c) preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect, and will cause each Significant Subsidiary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect (i) their respective legal existence and (ii) their respective rights, privileges and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of business, unless in the case of either the failure of the Guarantor or the Borrower to comply with subclause (c)(ii) of this Section 5.02 or the failure of any other Significant Subsidiary to comply with clause (c) of this Section 5.02, such failure could not, based upon the facts and circumstances existing at the time, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
that nothing in this Section 5.02 shall prohibit any transaction permitted by Section 5.08.
provided
Section 5.03The Guarantor will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and (b) maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by and commercially available to companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations, except in the case of each of clause (a) and (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not, based upon the facts and circumstances existing at the time, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
. Maintenance of Properties; Insurance.
 
Section 5.04The Guarantor will keep, and will cause each Consolidated Subsidiary to keep, proper books of record and account in which entries true and correct in all material respects shall be made of its business transactions and activities so that financial statements of the Guarantor that fairly present its business transactions and activities can be properly prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Guarantor will, and will cause each Significant Subsidiary to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or by any Lender through the Administrative Agent, upon reasonable prior notice, at all reasonable times and as and to the extent permitted by applicable law and regulation, and at the Administrative Agent's or such Lender's expense, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances, accounts and condition with its officers, employees (in the presence of its officers) and independent accountants (in the presence of its officers); that (i) such designated representatives shall be reasonably acceptable to the Borrower, shall agree to any reasonable confidentiality obligations proposed by the Borrower, and shall follow the guidelines and procedures generally imposed upon like visitors to Borrower's facilities and (ii) unless a Default shall have occurred and be continuing, such visits and inspections shall occur not more than once in any fiscal year. Prior to the occurrence of a Default, the Administrative Agent will use reasonable efforts to minimize any disruption to the business of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 5.04, none of the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries will be required to disclose, permit the inspection, examination or making copies or abstracts of, or discuss, any document, information or other matter that (x) constitutes non-financial trade secrets, (y) in respect of which disclosure to the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or their respective representatives or agents) is prohibited by law or (z) in the Guarantor's reasonable judgment, would compromise any attorney-client privilege, privilege afforded to attorney work product or similar privilege, provided that the Guarantor shall make available redacted versions of requested documents or, if unable to do so consistent with the preservation of such privilege, shall endeavor in good faith otherwise to disclose information responsive to the requests of the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their respective representatives and agents, in a manner that will protect such privilege.
. Books and Records; Inspection Rights.
provided
Section 5.05The Guarantor will, and will cause each Significant Subsidiary to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so could not, based upon the facts and circumstances existing at the time, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
. Compliance with Laws.
Section 5.06The proceeds of each Borrowing made under this Agreement will be used by the Borrower for working capital, capital expenditures and other lawful corporate purposes of the Borrower, including to
. Use Of Proceeds.
 
repay other Debt of the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X.
Section 5.07The Guarantor will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, except:
. Liens.
(a) any Lien existing on any asset on the Effective Date;
(b) any Lien on any asset securing the payment of all or part of the purchase price of such asset upon the acquisition thereof by the Guarantor or a Subsidiary or securing Debt (including any obligation as lessee incurred under a capital lease) incurred or assumed by the Guarantor or a Subsidiary prior to, at the time of or within one year after such acquisition (or in the case of real property, the completion of construction (including any improvements on an existing property) or the commencement of full operation of such asset or property, whichever is later), which Debt is incurred or assumed for the purpose of financing all or part of the cost of acquiring such asset or, in the case of real property, construction or improvements thereon;, that in the case of any such acquisition, construction or improvement, the Lien shall not apply to any asset theretofore owned by the Guarantor or a Subsidiary, other than assets so acquired, constructed or improved;
provided
(c) any Lien existing on any asset or Stock of any Person at the time such Person is merged or consolidated with or into the Guarantor or a Subsidiary which Lien was not created in contemplation of such event;
(d) any Lien existing on any asset at the time of acquisition thereof by the Guarantor or a Subsidiary, which Lien was not created in contemplation of such acquisition;
(e) any Lien arising out of the Refinancing of any Debt secured by any Lien permitted by any of the subsections (a) through (d) of this Section 5.07, that the principal amount of Debt is not increased (except as grossed-up for the customary fees and expenses, including accrued interest and prepayment premiums, incurred in connection with such Refinancing and except as a result of the capitalization or accretion of interest) and is not secured by any additional assets, except as provided in the last sentence of this Section 5.07;
provided
(f) any Lien to secure Intercompany Debt;
(g) sales of accounts receivable or promissory notes to factors or other third-parties in the ordinary course of business for purposes of collection;
 
(h) any Lien in favor of any country or any political subdivision of any country (or any department, agency or instrumentality thereof) securing obligations arising in connection with partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract, statute, rule or regulation or securing obligations incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price (including the cost of installation thereof or, in the case of real property, the cost of construction or improvement or installation of personal property thereon) of the asset subject to such Lien (including, but not limited to, any Lien incurred in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue or similar financings);
(i) Liens arising in the ordinary course of its business which (i) do not secure Debt, including statutory Liens of landlords, carriers, warehousemen, mechanics, materialmen, repairmen, processors or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business, and (ii) do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of its assets or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of its business;
(j) any Lien securing only Nonrecourse Debt;
(k) Liens incurred and pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, old age pensions, unemployment insurance or other social security legislation, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA;
(l) Liens created pursuant to a Permitted Securitization Transactions;
(m) Liens for taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies which are not yet due or are payable without penalty or of which the amount, applicability or validity is being contested by the Guarantor or a Subsidiary whose property is subject thereto in good faith by appropriate proceedings as to which adequate reserves are being maintained;
(n) Liens securing judgments that have not resulted in the occurrence of an Event of Default under clause (k) of Article 6 in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed an amount equal to 5.0% of Consolidated Tangible Assets at such time; and
(o) Liens not otherwise permitted by the foregoing clauses (a) through (n) of this Section 5.07 securing Debt or other obligations (without duplication) in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed an amount equal to 7.5% of Consolidated Tangible Assets at such time.
It is understood that any Lien permitted to exist on any asset pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.07 may attach to the proceeds of such asset and, with respect to Liens permitted pursuant to subsections (a), (b), (d), (e)
 
(but only with respect to the Refinancing of Debt secured by a Lien permitted pursuant to subsections (a), (b), (d)) or (f) of this Section 5.07, may attach to an asset acquired in the ordinary course of business as a replacement of such former asset.
Section 5.08.
Fundamental Changes.
(a) No Obligor will consolidate, amalgamate or merge with or into any other Person or sell, lease or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of the Consolidated assets to any other Person, unless
(i) such Obligor is the surviving corporation, or the Person (if other than such Obligor) formed by such consolidation or amalgamation or into which such Obligor is merged or amalgamated, or the Person which acquires by sale or other transfer, or which leases, all or substantially all of the assets of such Obligor (any such Person, the ""), shall be organized and existing under the laws of (A) in the case of a Successor to the Borrower, Luxembourg or the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, (B) in the case of a Successor to the Guarantor, Ireland or the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia or, subject to the receipt of an opinion of Swiss counsel acceptable in form and substance to the Administrative Agent, Switzerland and shall expressly assume, in a writing executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent for delivery to each of the Lenders, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Loans and the performance of the other obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents on the part of such Obligor to be performed or observed, as fully as if such Successor were originally named as such Obligor in this Agreement or such other Loan Document; and
Successor
(ii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(iii) such Obligor has delivered to the Administrative Agent a certificate on behalf of such Obligor signed by one of its Responsible Officers and an opinion of counsel, each stating that all conditions provided in this Section 5.08 relating to such transaction have been satisfied.
Upon the satisfaction (or waiver) of the conditions set forth in this Section 5.08(a), a Successor to the Borrower or the Guarantor shall succeed, and may exercise every right and power of, the Borrower or the Guarantor shall under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents with the same effect as if such Successor had been originally named as the Borrower or the Guarantor herein,
 
and the Borrower or the Guarantor, as the case may be, shall be relieved of and released from its obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
(b) The Borrower shall not be incorporated in any jurisdiction other than Luxembourg or the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia and the Guarantor shall not be incorporated in any other jurisdiction other than Ireland, the United States or any state thereof or the District of Columbia or, subject to the receipt of an opinion of Swiss counsel acceptable in form and substance to the Administrative Agent, Switzerland.
Section 5.09.
Financial Covenant.
(a) . The Guarantor will not permit the ratio, as of the last day of the most recently concluded period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Guarantor, of (x) Consolidated Total Debt on such date to (y) Consolidated EBITDA, for such four consecutive fiscal quarter period, to exceed 3.50 to 1.00.
Leverage
Section 5.10The Guarantor will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly, create or otherwise cause or suffer to exist or become effective any encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Subsidiary, other than the Borrower, to (a) pay dividends or make any other distributions on its capital stock or any other interest or participation in its profits, owned by the Guarantor or any Subsidiary, or pay any Debt owed by any Subsidiary to the Guarantor or any Subsidiary, (b) make loans or advances to the Guarantor or any Subsidiary or (c) transfer any of its properties or assets to the Guarantor or any Subsidiary (or, solely in the case of clause (xii) hereof, any other Consolidated Person in respect of such Nonrecourse Debt), except for such encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of:
. Limitation on Restrictions on Subsidiary Dividends and Other Distributions.
(i) applicable laws and regulations, judgments and orders and other legal requirements, agreements with non-U.S. governments with respect to assets or businesses located in their jurisdiction, or condemnation or eminent domain proceedings,
(ii) this Agreement,
(iii) (A) customary provisions restricting subletting or assignment of any lease governing a leasehold interest of the Guarantor or a Subsidiary, or (B) customary restrictions imposed on the transfer of trademarked, copyrighted or patented materials or provisions in agreements that restrict the assignment of such agreements or any rights thereunder,
 
(iv) provisions contained in the instruments evidencing or governing Debt or other obligations or agreements, in each case existing on the date hereof,
(v) provisions contained in instruments evidencing or governing Debt or other obligations or agreements of any Person, in each case, at the time such Person (A) shall be merged or consolidated with or into the Guarantor or any Subsidiary, (B) shall sell, transfer, assign, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of such Person's assets to the Guarantor or a Subsidiary, or (C) otherwise becomes a Subsidiary, that in the case of clause (A), (B) or (C), such Debt, obligation or agreement was not incurred or entered into, or any such provisions adopted, in contemplation of such transaction,
provided
(vi) provisions contained in Refinancings, so long as such provisions are, in the good faith determination of the Guarantor's board of directors, not materially more restrictive than those contained in the respective instruments so Refinanced,
(vii) provisions contained in any instrument evidencing or governing Debt or other obligations of a Subsidiary Guarantor,
(viii) any encumbrances and restrictions with respect to a Subsidiary imposed in connection with an agreement which has been entered into for the sale or disposition of such Subsidiary or its assets, such sale or disposition otherwise complies with this Agreement,
provided
(ix) the subordination (pursuant to its terms) in right and priority of payment of any Debt owed by any Subsidiary (the "") to the Guarantor or any other Subsidiary, to any other Debt of such Indebted Subsidiary, that (A) such Debt is permitted under this Agreement and (B) the Guarantor's board of directors has determined, in good faith, at the time of the creation of such encumbrance or restriction, that such encumbrance or restriction could not, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence at the time, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect,
Indebted Subsidiary
provided
(x) provisions governing Preferred Stock issued by a Subsidiary,
(xi) provisions contained in instruments or agreements evidencing or governing (A) Nonrecourse Debt or (B) other Debt of a Subsidiary incurred to finance the acquisition or construction of fixed or capital assets to the extent, in the case of sub-clause (B), such instrument or agreement prohibits transfers of the assets financed with such Debt, and
 
(xii) provisions contained in debt instruments, obligations or other agreements of any Subsidiary which are not otherwise permitted pursuant to clauses (i) through (xii) of this Section 5.10, that the aggregate investment of the Guarantor in all such Subsidiaries (determined in accordance with GAAP) shall at no time exceed the greater of (a) $500,000,000 or (b) 5.0% of Consolidated Tangible Assets at such time.
provided
The provisions of this Section 5.10 shall not prohibit (x) Liens not prohibited by Section 5.07 or (y) restrictions on the sale or other disposition of any property securing Debt of any Subsidiary, such Debt is otherwise permitted by this Agreement.
provided
Section 5.11The Guarantor will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly, pay any funds to or for the account of, make any investment (whether by acquisition of Stock or indebtedness, by loan, advance, transfer of property, guarantee or other agreement to pay, purchase or service, directly or indirectly, any Debt, or otherwise) in, lease, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any assets, tangible or intangible, to, or participate in, or effect any transaction in connection with any joint enterprise or other joint arrangement with, any Affiliate (collectively, "");, , that the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.11 shall not prohibit the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries from:
. Transactions with Affiliates.
Affiliate Transactions
provided
however
(i) engaging in any Affiliate Transaction between or among (x) the Guarantor, (y) the Guarantor and any Subsidiary or Subsidiaries or (z) two or more Subsidiaries,
(ii) declaring or paying any dividends and distributions on any shares of the Guarantor's Stock, including any dividend or distribution payable in shares of the Guarantor's Stock or Stock Equivalents,
(iii) making any payments on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement or acquisition of (x) any shares of the Guarantor's Stock or (y) any option, warrant or other right to acquire shares of the Guarantor's Stock, including any payment payable in shares of the Guarantor's Stock or Stock Equivalents,
(iv) declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on Stock of any Subsidiary held by the Guarantor or another Subsidiary,
(v) making sales to or purchases from any Affiliate and, in connection therewith, extending credit or making payments, or from making payments for services rendered by any Affiliate, if such sales or purchases are made or such services are rendered in the ordinary course of
 
business and on terms and conditions at least as favorable to the Guarantor or such Subsidiary as the terms and conditions which the Guarantor would reasonably expect to be obtained in a similar transaction with a Person which is not an Affiliate at such time,
(vi) making payments of principal, interest and premium on any Debt of the Guarantor or such Subsidiary held by an Affiliate if the terms of such Debt are at least as favorable to the Guarantor or such Subsidiary as the terms which the Guarantor would reasonably expect to have been obtained at the time of the creation of such Debt from a lender which was not an Affiliate,
(vii) participating in, or effecting any transaction in connection with, any joint enterprise or other joint arrangement with any Affiliate if the Guarantor or such Subsidiary participates in the ordinary course of its business and on a basis no less advantageous than the basis on which such Affiliate participates,
(viii) paying or granting reasonable compensation, indemnities, reimbursements and benefits to any director, officer, employee or agent of the Guarantor or any Subsidiary, or
(ix) engaging in any Affiliate Transaction not otherwise addressed in subsections (i) through (viii) of this Section 5.11, the terms of which are not less favorable to the Guarantor or such Subsidiary than those that the Guarantor or such Subsidiary would reasonably expect to be obtained in a comparable transaction at such time with a Person which is not an Affiliate.
Section 5.12(a) The Borrower will cause each Subsidiary of the Borrower that now or hereafter Guarantees any Material Debt of the Borrower for or in respect of borrowed money (other than Debt of the Borrower to any other Subsidiary) to promptly thereafter (and in any event within 30 days of executing such Guarantee (or such later date as the Administrative Agent may agree in its reasonable discretion)) (i) cause such Subsidiary to become a Subsidiary Guarantor by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a Subsidiary Guaranty, and (ii) deliver to the Administrative Agent documents of the types referred to in Section 4.01(d) and favorable opinions of counsel to such Subsidiary (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the Subsidiary Guaranty of such Subsidiary), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
. Subsidiary Guarantors.
(b) In the event Covidien Ltd. at any time acquires or holds material assets apart from its ownership interest in the Borrower (other than temporary
 
cash balances arising from the settlement and transfer of payments under the Tax Sharing Arrangement), the Guarantor will promptly thereafter (and in any event within 30 days (or such later date as the Administrative Agent may agree in its reasonable discretion)) (i) cause such Subsidiary to become a Subsidiary Guarantor by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a Subsidiary Guaranty, and (ii) deliver to the Administrative Agent documents of the types referred to in Section 4.01(d) and favorable opinions of counsel to such Subsidiary (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the Subsidiary Guaranty of such Subsidiary), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
If any of the following events ("") shall occur:
Events of Default
(a) the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
(b) the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five Business Days;
(c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of any Obligor or any Subsidiary in or in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or any amendment or modification hereof or thereof or waiver hereunder or thereunder, or in any report, certificate or financial statement furnished pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any amendment or modification hereof or thereof or waiver hereunder or thereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made;
(d) any Obligor shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in (i) Section 5.06, 5.07, 5.08, 5.10, 5.11 or 5.12 and such failure shall not be remedied within five Business Days after any Responsible Officer obtains knowledge thereof or (ii) Section 5.09;
(e) any Obligor shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement or the other Loan Documents (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the
 
Administrative Agent to the Guarantor (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender);
(f) any Obligor or any Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment in respect of any Material Debt, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue beyond any applicable grace period (but in any event, in the case of interest, fees or other amounts other than principal, for a period of at least five Business Days);
(g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Debt becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity; that this clause (g) shall not apply to (i) secured Debt that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Debt, (ii) any conversion, repurchase or redemption of any Material Debt scheduled by the terms thereof to occur on a particular date, any conversion of any Material Debt initiated by a holder thereof pursuant to the terms thereof or any optional prepayment, repurchase or redemption of any Material Debt, in each case not subject to any contingent event or condition related to the creditworthiness, financial performance or financial condition of any Obligor or any Subsidiary or (iii) any repurchase or redemption of any Material Debt pursuant to any put option exercised by the holder of such Material Debt; that such put option is exercisable at times specified in the terms of the Material Debt and not by its terms solely as a result of any contingent event or condition related to the creditworthiness, financial performance or financial condition of the Guarantor or the applicable Subsidiaries;
provided
provided
(h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, winding up, reorganization, examinership or other relief in respect of any Obligor or any Significant Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law of any jurisdiction now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, examiner, conservator or similar official for any Obligor or any Significant Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its respective assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
(i) any Obligor or any Significant Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, examinership or other relief under any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law of any jurisdiction now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, examiner, conservator or similar official for any Obligor or any Significant
 
Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its respective assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
(j) any Obligor or any Significant Subsidiary shall admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
(k) one or more judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000 (after deducting amounts covered by insurance, except to the extent that the insurer providing such insurance has declined such coverage or indemnification) shall be rendered against any Obligor or any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and, within 60 days after entry thereof, such judgment or order is not discharged or execution thereof stayed pending appeal, or within 60 days after the expiration of any such stay, such judgment or order is not discharged;
(l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(m) (x) any person or group of persons (within the meaning of Section 13 or 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the SEC under said Act) of 40% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Guarantor; or (y) on the last day of any period of twelve consecutive calendar months, a majority of members of the board of directors of the Guarantor shall no longer be composed of individuals (i) who were members of said board of directors on the first day of such twelve consecutive calendar month period or (ii) whose election or nomination to said board of directors was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of said board of directors;
(n) any Loan Document shall cease to be valid and enforceable against any Obligor or Subsidiary Guarantor party thereto (except for the termination of a Subsidiary Guaranty in accordance with its terms), or any Obligor or Subsidiary Guarantor shall so assert in writing; or
(o) the Borrower (or any permitted successor pursuant to Section 5.08(a)) shall cease to be a Wholly-Owned Consolidated Subsidiary of the Guarantor;
then, and in every such event (other than an event described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article with respect to the Borrower or the Guarantor), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent shall, at
 
the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, and thereupon the principal amount of all such outstanding Loans together with all such interest and other amounts so declared to be due and payable, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Obligors; and in case of any event described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article with respect to the Borrower or the Guarantor, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued under any Loan Document, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Obligors.
Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Guarantor or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the
 
Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for in Section 10.02), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to this Agreement, the other Loan Documents or applicable law, and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Section 10.02) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article 4 or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
provided
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender
 
prior to the making of such Loan. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a commercial bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such commercial bank with an office in New York, New York. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above, that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this paragraph. The successor shall be consented to by the Borrower at all times other than during the existence of an Event of Default (which consent of the Borrower shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this paragraph). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless
provided
 
otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and Section 10.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
The Lenders hereby irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent, at its option and in its discretion, to release any Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under such Subsidiary Guarantor's Subsidiary Guaranty (i) if such Person ceases to exist or to be a Subsidiary (or substantially contemporaneously with such release will cease to exist or to be a Subsidiary), in each case as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder, or (ii) otherwise in accordance with Section 4.06(b) of the relevant Subsidiary Guaranty.
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Joint Lead Arrangers, Syndication Agent or Co-Documentation Agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement, except in its capacity, if applicable, as a Lender hereunder.
Section 8.01The Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably, jointly and severally, guarantees the full and punctual payment when due (whether at stated maturity, by mandatory prepayment, by acceleration or otherwise) of the principal of and interest on the Loans, the Notes and all other amounts whatsoever at any time or from time to time payable or becoming payable under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents. This is a continuing guarantee and a guarantee of payment and not merely of collection. Upon failure by the Borrower to pay punctually any such amount when due as aforesaid, the
. The Guarantee.
 
Guarantor shall forthwith on demand pay the amount not so paid at the place and in the manner specified in this Agreement.
Section 8.02The obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall be unconditional and absolute, and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall not be released, discharged or otherwise affected, at any time by:
. Guarantee Unconditional.
(a) any extension, renewal, settlement, compromise, waiver or release in respect of any obligation of the Borrower under any Loan Document, by operation of law or otherwise;
(b) any modification or amendment of or supplement to any Loan Document;
(c) any release, impairment, non-perfection or invalidity of any direct or indirect security for any obligation of the Borrower under any Loan Document;
(d) any change in the corporate existence, structure or ownership of the Borrower, or any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization or other similar proceeding affecting the Borrower or its assets or any resulting release or discharge of any obligation of the Guarantor or the Borrower contained in any Loan Document;
(e) the existence of any claim, set-off or other rights which the Guarantor may have at any time against the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Person, whether in connection herewith or any unrelated transactions, that nothing herein shall prevent the assertion of any such claim by separate suit or compulsory counterclaim;
provided
(f) any invalidity or unenforceability relating to or against the Borrower for any reason of any Loan Document, or any provision of applicable law or regulation purporting to prohibit the payment by the Borrower, in the currency and funds and at the time and place specified herein, of any amount payable by it under any Loan Document; or
(g) any other act or omission to act or delay of any kind by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Person, or any other circumstance whatsoever which might, but for the provisions of this paragraph, constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor or surety.
Section 8.03The guarantee and other agreements in this Article 8 shall remain in full force and effect until the Commitments shall have terminated and the principal of and interest on the Loans, the Notes and all other amounts
. Discharge Only upon Payment in Full; Reimbursement in Certain Circumstances.
 
whatsoever payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document shall have been finally paid in full. If at any time any payment of any such amount payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is rescinded or must be otherwise restored or returned upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Borrower or otherwise, the Guarantor's obligations hereunder with respect to such payment shall be reinstated at such time as though such payment had been due but not made at such time.
Section 8.04The Guarantor irrevocably waives acceptance hereof, presentment, demand, protest and any notice not provided for herein, as well as any requirement that at any time any action be taken by any Person against the Borrower or any other Person.
. Waiver by the Guarantors.
Section 8.05Upon making any payment hereunder with respect to the Borrower, the Guarantor shall be subrogated to the rights of the payee against the Borrower with respect to such payment; that the Guarantor shall not enforce any payment by way of subrogation until all amounts of principal of and interest on the Loans and all other amounts payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document has been paid in full and the Commitments have been terminated.
. Subrogation.
provided
Section 8.06In the event that acceleration of the time for payment of any amount payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is stayed upon insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Borrower, all such amounts otherwise subject to acceleration under the terms of this Agreement shall nonetheless be payable by the Guarantor hereunder forthwith on demand by the Required Lenders.
. Stay of Acceleration.
Section 9.01If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing:
. Alternate Rate of Interest.
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period; or
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period (together with any amounts payable pursuant to Section 9.03 or 9.05) will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
 
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or facsimile or electronic mail as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Borrowing to, or continuation of any Borrowing as, a Eurodollar Borrowing shall be ineffective and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing. In the case of clause (b) above, during any such period of suspension each Lender shall, from time to time upon request from the Borrower, certify its cost of funds for each Interest Period to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent as soon as practicable (but in any event not later than 10 Business Days after any such request).
Section 9.02Notwithstanding any other provision of any Loan Document, if any Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent (and provide to the Borrower an opinion of counsel to the effect) that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for such Lender or its lending office for Eurodollar Borrowings to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurodollar Loans or to fund or maintain Eurodollar Loans hereunder, (i) each Eurodollar Loan of such Lender will automatically, upon such demand, convert into an ABR Loan that bears interest at the rate set forth in Section 2.12(a) and (ii) the obligation of such Lender to make or continue, or to convert ABR Loans into, Eurodollar Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and such Lender that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist and such Lender shall make the ABR Loans in the amount and on the dates that it would have been requested to make Eurodollar Loans had no such suspension been in effect.
. Illegality.
Section 9.03. Increased Costs.
(a) If any Change in Law shall:
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender;
(ii) subject any Lender or the Administrative Agent to any Taxes (other than (A) Taxes subject to indemnification pursuant to Section 9.05(c), (B) Taxes described in clauses (b) or (c) of the definition of Excluded Taxes and (C) Connection Income Taxes) on its loans, loan principal, letters of credit, commitments, or other obligations, or its deposits, reserves, other liabilities or capital attributable thereto; or
 
(iii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition affecting any Loan Document or Eurodollar Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing has been to increase the cost to such Lender or Administrative Agent of making or maintaining any Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or Administrative Agent hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise) (excluding resulting from reserve commitments contemplated by Section 9.03(c)), then from time to time within 30 days of written demand therefor (subject to Section 9.06) the Borrower will pay to such Lender or Administrative Agent such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or Administrative Agent for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of any Loan Document or the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time within 30 days of written demand therefor (subject to Section 9.06) the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) At any time that any Lender is required to establish or maintain reserves in respect of its Eurodollar Loans under FRB Regulation D, such Lender may require the Borrower to pay, contemporaneously with each payment of interest on a Eurodollar Loan made by such Lender, additional interest on such Eurodollar Loan at a rate per annum determined by such Lender to be sufficient to compensate it for the cost to it of maintaining, or the reduction in its total return in respect of, such Eurodollar Loan, up to but not exceeding the excess of (i) (A) the applicable LIBO Rate divided by (B) one minus the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage, minus the applicable LIBO Rate. Any Lender wishing to require payment of such additional interest (x) shall so notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, in which case such additional interest on the Eurodollar Loans of such Lender shall be payable to such Lender at the time and place indicated at which interest otherwise is payable on such Eurodollar Loan, with respect to each Interest Period commencing at least three Business Days after the giving of such notice and (y) shall notify the Borrower at least five Business Days prior to each date on which interest is payable on the Eurodollar Loans of the amount then due it under this Section.
 
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 90 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor.
provided
Section 9.04In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurodollar Loan prior to the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan prior to the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurodollar Loan on the date specified in any oral or written notice given pursuant hereto or (d) the assignment of any Eurodollar Loan prior to the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04(e) or Section 10.04(e), then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event (including any loss or expense arising from the redeployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Eurodollar Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained, but excluding any loss of anticipated profits) within 10 days of written demand therefor (subject to Section 9.06).
. Break Funding Payments.
Section 9.05.
Taxes.
(a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower under any Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes except as required by applicable law. If the Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable by the Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that after all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or applicable Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) The Borrower shall pay and indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Administrative Agent and each Lender within 30 days after written demand
 
therefor (subject to Section 9.06), for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes required to be paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower under any Loan Document (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes to a Governmental Authority by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, shall deliver to the Borrower the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(e) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of United States withholding tax with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate.
(f) Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of any other withholding Tax with respect to payments made under any Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, at the time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the preceding two sentences, the completion, execution and submission of documentation described in this Section 9.05(f) shall not be required if in the Lender's reasonable judgment such completion, execution or
 
submission would subject such Lender to any material unreimbursed cost or expense or would materially prejudice the legal or commercial position of such Lender.
(g) If the Administrative Agent or a Lender determines, in its good faith judgment, that it has received a refund of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 9.05, it shall pay over the amount of such refund to the Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section 9.05 with respect to the Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
provided
(h) Each Lender shall severally indemnify the Administrative Agent, within 10 days after demand therefor, for (i) any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes attributable to such Lender (but only to the extent that the Borrower has not already indemnified the Administrative Agent for such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes and without limiting the obligation of the Borrower to do so) and (ii) any Excluded Taxes attributable to such Lender, in each case, that are payable or paid by the Administrative Agent in connection with any Loan Document, and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to any Lender by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Each Lender hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender under any Loan Document or otherwise payable by the Administrative Agent to the Lender from any other source against any amount due to the Administrative Agent under this paragraph (h).
Section 9.06If any Lender or the Administrative Agent is claiming compensation under Section 9.03, 9.04 or 9.05, it shall deliver to the Administrative Agent, who shall deliver to the Borrower contemporaneously with the demand for payment, a certificate
. Matters Applicable to all Requests for Compensation.
 
setting forth in reasonable detail the calculation of any additional amount or amounts to be paid to it hereunder and the basis used to determine such amounts and such certificate shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. In determining such amount, such Lender or the Administrative Agent may use any reasonable averaging and attribution methods. In any such certificate claiming compensation under Section 9.03(b), such Lender shall certify that the claim for additional amounts referred to therein is generally consistent with such Lender's treatment of similarly situated customers of such Lender whose transactions with such Lender are similarly affected by the change in circumstances giving rise to such payment, but such Lender shall not be required to disclose any confidential or proprietary information therein. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
Section 9.07If any Lender requests compensation under Section 9.03, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 9.05, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 9.03 or 9.05, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
. Mitigation Obligations.
Section 10.01.
Notices.
(a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone or by other means of communication (and subject to paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile or electronic mail, as follows:
(i) if to the Borrower
 
Covidien International Finance S.A.
3b, boulevard du Prince Henri
L-1724 Luxembourg
Attn: Michelangelo Stefani
Tel: +352 266 379 31
Fax: +352 266 379 92
email: michelangelo.stefani@covidien.com
with a copy to:
Covidien
Victor von Bruns Strasse 19
CH-8212 Neuhausen am Rheinfall
Switzerland
Attn: Anton Stadtbaumer
(ii) if to the Guarantor
Covidien plc
20 On Hatch, Lower Hatch Street
Dublin 2, Ireland
Attn: Corporate Secretary
Tel: +353 1 438 1700
Fax: +353 1 438
Email: jack.kapples@covidien.com
(iii) if to the Administrative Agent, to its applicable address set forth on Schedule 10.01;
and
(iv) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or facsimile number or electronic mail address telephone number) set forth on Schedule 10.01 or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement or to such other address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number as shall be designated by such party in a notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
(b) Notices and other communications to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications. In addition to provisions of this Agreement expressly specifying that notices and other commitments may be delivered telephonically or electronically, each of the Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by
 
electronic communications; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
(c) Any party hereto may change its address or facsimile number or electronic mail address for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
(d) The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Borrowing Requests and Interest Election Requests) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower.
Section 10.02.
Waivers; Amendments.
(a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or consent to any departure by any Obligor therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
(b) Neither this Agreement nor the Notes, or any Subsidiary Guaranty or any provision hereof or thereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Obligors, the Subsidiary Guarantors (to the extent applicable) and the Required Lenders or by the Obligors, the Subsidiary Guarantors (to the extent applicable) and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby,
provided
 
(iv) change Section 2.13(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) release the Guarantor from its obligations under Article 8 or any Subsidiary Guarantor which is a Significant Subsidiary from its obligations under its Subsidiary Guaranty, without the written consent of each Lender, (vi) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determinatino or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under any Loan Document without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, during such period as a Lender is a Defaulting Lender, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, such Lender will not be entitled to vote in respect of amendments and waivers hereunder and the Commitment and the outstanding Loans or other extensions of credit of such Lender hereunder will not be taken into account in determining whether the Required Lenders have approved any such amendment or waiver (and the definition of "Required Lenders" will automatically be deemed modified accordingly for the duration of such period);, that any such amendment or waiver that would increase the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender, reduce the principal amount of any Loan of such Defaulting Lender or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable owing to such Defaulting Lender hereunder, postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan of such Defaulting Lender or any interest thereon, or any fees payable to such Defaulting Lender hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment of such Defaulting Lender, or alter the terms of this proviso, will require the consent of such Defaulting Lender.
provided further
provided
Section 10.03.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
(a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Joint Lead Arrangers and their Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and, if necessary, local counsel for the Administrative Agent, in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof and thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated); and (ii) while a Default has occurred and is continuing, all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, including reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in
 
connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, or restructuring negotiations in respect of such Loans.
(b) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of (i) one counsel to the Indemnitees taken as a whole, (ii) in the case of any conflict of interest, additional counsel to the affected Indemnitees limited to one such additional counsel so long as representation of each such party by a single counsel is consistent with and permitted by professional responsibility rules and (iii) if necessary, one local counsel in each relevant jurisdiction and special counsel incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding (whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto) relating to (A) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (B) any Loan or the use of the proceeds therefrom, (C) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee, as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment (y) resulted from a breach of the confidentiality provisions contained in Section 10.14 by such Indemnitee or (z) resulted from a dispute solely among the Lenders (and not against the Administrative Agent, any Joint Lead Arranger or any other agent, in each case, in its capacity as such) that does not arise from any Obligor's or Subsidiary Guarantor's breach of its obligations under any Loan Document or applicable law. If any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding is asserted against any Indemnitee, such Indemnitee shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law or regulation in the opinion of its counsel, notify the Borrower as soon as reasonably practicable, but the failure to so promptly notify the Borrower shall not affect the Borrower's obligations under this Section unless such failure materially prejudices the Borrower's right to participate in the contest of such claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding, as hereinafter provided. If requested by the Borrower in writing, such Indemnitee shall make reasonable good faith efforts to contest the validity, applicability and
Indemnitee
provided
 
amount of such claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding and, except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or regulations or as would otherwise be unreasonable in the circumstances or contrary to the internal policies of the Indemnitee as generally applied, shall permit the Borrower to participate in such contest. Any Indemnitee that proposes to settle or compromise any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding for which the Borrower may be liable for payment of indemnity hereunder shall give the Borrower written notice of the terms of such proposed settlement or compromise reasonably in advance of settling or compromising such claim or proceeding and shall obtain the Borrower's prior written consent (not to be unreasonably withheld).
(c) To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent or any Related Party thereof under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party acting for the Administrative Agent in connection with such capacity.
provided
(d) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the parties hereto shall not assert, and hereby waive, any claim on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the Transactions, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in paragraph (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the Transactions, except to the extent that such damages are found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee.
(e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than 10 Business Days after written demand therefor.
Section 10.04.
Successors and Assigns.
(a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that (i) other than as contemplated by Section 5.08, none of the Guarantor or the Borrower may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights
 
or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Guarantor or the Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees (other than a natural Person) all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) of:
(A) the Borrower, that no consent of the Borrower shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender, an Approved Fund or, if an Event of Default under clause (a), (b), (h), (i) or (j) of Article 6 has occurred and is continuing, any other Person (other than a natural person); and
provided
(B) the Administrative Agent, that no consent of the Administrative Agent shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or for an assignment by a Lender to an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender.
provided
(ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
(A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment or Loans, the amount of the Commitment or Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, and the amount of the Commitment or Loans of the assigning Lender remaining after each such assignment (in each case determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent), in each case shall not be less than $10,000,000 unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), provided that no such
 
consent of the Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default under clause (a), (b), (h), (i) or (j) of Article 6 has occurred and is continuing;
(B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement; and
(C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500.
For the purposes of this Section 10.04(b), the term "Approved Fund" has the following meaning:
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
(iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05 and 10.03). Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender, and the Note theretofore held by the assignor Lender shall be returned to the Borrower in exchange for a new Note, payable to the assignee Lender and reflecting its retained interest (if any) hereunder. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 10.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
 
(iv) The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
(c) (i) Any Lender may, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural Person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or subsidiaries) (each a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 10.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 9.03, 9.04 and 9.05 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant
Participant
provided
provided
 
also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 10.08 as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.13(c) as though it were a Lender.
(d) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Sections 9.03 or 9.05 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent.
(e) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including without limitation any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
(f) If (w) any Lender requests compensation under Section 9.03, (x) the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 9.05, (y) if any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder or (z) if any Lender refuses to consent to any amendment or waiver under this Agreement which pursuant to the terms of Section 10.02 requires the consent of all Lenders or all affected Lenders and with respect to which the Required Lenders shall have granted their consent, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained above in Section 10.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) such assigning Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (ii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 9.03 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 9.05, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
provided
 
(g) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (an "") the option to provide all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make pursuant to this Agreement; that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to fund any Loan, and (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to make all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof. Each party hereto hereby agrees that (i) neither the grant to any SPC nor the exercise by any SPC of such option shall increase the costs or expenses or otherwise increase or change the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (including its obligations under Section 9.03), (ii) no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement for which a Lender would be liable, and (iii) the Granting Lender shall for all purposes, including the approval of any amendment, waiver or other modification of any provision of any Loan Document, remain the lender of record hereunder. The making of a Loan by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting Lender. In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior debt of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, or liquidation proceeding under the laws of the United States or any State thereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without prior consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and with the payment of a processing fee of $3,500, assign all or any portion of its right to receive payment with respect to any Loan to the Granting Lender and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its funding of Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety or Guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC.
Granting Lender
SPC
provided
(h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender that is a Fund may create a security interest in all or any portion of the Loans owing to it and the Note, if any, held by it to the trustee for holders of obligations owed, or securities issued, by such Fund as security for such obligations or securities, that unless and until such trustee actually becomes a Lender in compliance with the other provisions of this Section 10.04, (i) no such pledge shall release the pledging Lender from any of its obligations under the Loan Documents and (ii) such trustee shall not be entitled to exercise any of the rights of a Lender under the Loan Documents even though such trustee
provided
 
may have acquired ownership rights with respect to the pledged interest through foreclosure or otherwise.
Section 10.05All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Obligors herein and in the other Loan Documents and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is outstanding and unpaid and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05 and 10.03 and Article 7 shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the resignation or replacement of the Administrative Agent, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any provision hereof or thereof.
. Survival.
Section 10.06This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. As of the Effective Date this Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof or thereof. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of any other Loan Document, the provisions of this Agreement shall control; that the inclusion of supplemental rights or remedies in favor of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders in any other Loan Document shall not be deemed a conflict with this Agreement. Each Loan Document was drafted with the joint participation of the respective parties thereto and shall be construed neither against nor in favor of any party, but rather in accordance with the fair meaning thereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by facsimile or
. Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.
provided
 
electronic transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Section 10.07If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
. Severability.
Section 10.08If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, upon the making of the request, or the granting of the consent, if required under Article 6 to authorize the Administrative Agent to declare the Loans due and payable, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower or the Guarantor against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower or the Guarantor now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents to such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower or the Guarantor may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or its Affiliates may have. Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
. Right of Setoff.
provided
Section 10.09. .
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
(a) This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
(b) Each Obligor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any
 
thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document against the Obligors or their respective properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(c) Each Obligor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(d) Each Obligor hereby irrevocably designates and appoints CT Corporation System, having an office on the date hereof at 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011 as its authorized agent, to accept and acknowledge on its behalf, service of any and all process which may be served in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in paragraph (b) hereof in any Federal or New York State court sitting in New York City. Each Obligor represents and warrants that such agent has agreed in writing to accept such appointment and that a true copy of such designation and acceptance has been delivered to the Administrative Agent. If such agent shall cease so to act, each Obligor covenants and agrees to designate irrevocably and appoint without delay another such agent satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and to deliver promptly to the Administrative Agent evidence in writing of such other agent's acceptance of such appointment.
(e) Each Lender and the Administrative Agent irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 10.01.
(f) Nothing in this Agreement or any other Loan Document will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
Section 10.10EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW,
. Waiver of Jury Trial.
 
ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
Section 10.11TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IF ANY OBLIGOR HAS OR HEREAFTER MAY ACQUIRE ANY IMMUNITY (SOVEREIGN OR OTHERWISE) FROM ANY LEGAL ACTION, SUIT OR PROCEEDING, FROM JURISDICTION OF ANY COURT OR FROM SET-OFF OR ANY LEGAL PROCESS (WHETHER SERVICE OR NOTICE, ATTACHMENT PRIOR TO JUDGMENT, ATTACHMENT IN AID OF EXECUTION OF JUDGMENT, EXECUTION OF JUDGMENT OR OTHERWISE) WITH RESPECT TO ITSELF OR ANY OF ITS PROPERTY, SUCH OBLIGOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES AND AGREES NOT TO PLEAD OR CLAIM SUCH IMMUNITY IN RESPECT OF ITS OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT. EACH OBLIGOR AGREES THAT THE WAIVERS SET FORTH ABOVE SHALL BE TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER THE FOREIGN SOVEREIGN IMMUNITIES ACT OF 1976 OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND ARE INTENDED TO BE IRREVOCABLE AND NOT SUBJECT TO WITHDRAWAL FOR PURPOSES OF SUCH ACT.
. Waiver of Immunities.
Section 10.12If, under any applicable law and whether pursuant to a judgment being made or registered against any Obligor or for any other reason, any payment under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, is made or satisfied in a currency (the "") other than that in which the relevant payment is due (the "") then, to the extent that the payment (when converted into the Required Currency at the rate of exchange on the date of payment or, if it is not practicable for the party entitled thereto (the "") to purchase the Required Currency with the Other Currency on the date of payment, at the rate of exchange as soon thereafter as it is practicable for it to do so) actually received by the Payee falls short of the amount due under the terms of this Agreement or any other Loan
. Judgment Currency.
Other Currency
Required Currency
Payee
 
Document, such Obligor shall, to the extent permitted by law, as a separate and independent obligation, indemnify and hold harmless the Payee against the amount of such shortfall. For the purpose of this Section, "" means the rate at which the Payee is able on the relevant date to purchase the Required Currency with the Other Currency and shall take into account any premium and other costs of exchange.
rate of exchange
Section 10.13Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein and in the other Loan Documents are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement or any other Loan Document and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
. Headings.
Section 10.14Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below) and shall not use the Information except for purposes relating directly to this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and the Transactions, except that Information may be disclosed by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (a) to their and their Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents whom they determine need to know such Information in connection with matters relating directly to this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and the Transactions, including accountants, legal counsel, any credit insurance provider relating to the Borrower and its obligations hereunder and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential and the Administrative Agent or the applicable Lenders shall be responsible for breach of this Section by any such Person to whom it disclosed such Information), (b) to the extent requested by any governmental authority or regulatory agency (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or upon order of any court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, to the extent required by such order and not effectively stayed on appeal or otherwise, or as otherwise required by law; that in the case of any intended disclosure under this clause (c), the recipient thereof shall (unless otherwise required by applicable law) give the Guarantor not less than five Business Days' prior notice (or such shorter period as may, in the good faith discretion of the recipient, be reasonable under the circumstances or may be required by any court or agency under the circumstances), specifying the Information involved and stating such recipient's intention to disclose such Information (including the manner and extent of such disclosure) in order to allow the Guarantor an opportunity to seek an appropriate protective order, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies under this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or
. Confidentiality.
provided
 
thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement in writing to be bound by the provisions of this Section (and of which the Guarantor shall be a third party beneficiary) or in the case of a repurchase arrangement ("") subject to an arrangement to be bound by provisions at least as restrictive as this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (iii) any rating agency or (iv) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar organization, (g) with the written consent of the Borrower referencing this Section 10.14, or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section, a breach of another confidentiality agreement to which the Administrative Agent or such Lender is a party or any other legal or fiduciary obligation of the Administrative Agent or such Lender or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower. For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from or on behalf of any Obligor or Subsidiary Guarantor relating to any Obligor or any Subsidiary Guarantor or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that the Administrative Agent or any Lender proves is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by any Obligor or any Subsidiary Guarantor from a source which is not, to the knowledge of the recipient, prohibited from disclosing such information by a confidentiality agreement or other legal or fiduciary obligation to the Obligors or Subsidiary Guarantors. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has taken normal and reasonable precautions and exercised due care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information. In addition to other remedies, the Obligors shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive and other equitable relief for breach of this Section 10.14.
repo transaction
Information
Section 10.15. .
Electronic Communications
(a) Each Obligor hereby agrees that except to the extent provided in clause (i) of the final sentence of Section 5.01, it will provide to the Administrative Agent all information, documents or other materials that it is obligated to furnish to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, including, without limitation, all notices, requests, financial statements, financial and other reports, certificates and other information materials, but excluding any such communication that (i) relates to a request for a new, or a conversion of an existing, borrowing or other extension of credit (including any election of an interest rate or interest period relating thereto), (ii) relates to the payment of any principal or other amount due under this Agreement or any other Loan Document prior to the scheduled date therefor, (iii) provides
 
notice of any Default or Event of Default, (iv) is required to be delivered to satisfy any condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement and/or any Borrowing hereunder or (v) initiates or responds to legal process (all such non-excluded information being referred to herein collectively as the "") by transmitting the Communications in an electronic/soft medium (provided such Communications contain any required signatures) in a format acceptable to the Administrative Agent to oploanswebadmin@citigroup.com (or such other e-mail address designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time).
Communications
(b) Each party hereto agrees that the Administrative Agent may make the Communications available to the Lenders by posting the Communications on IntraLinks or another relevant website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent) (the ""). Nothing in this Section 5.01 shall prejudice the right of the Administrative Agent to make the Communications available to the Lenders in any other manner specified in this Agreement.
Platform
(c) Each Obligor hereby acknowledges that certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders (i.e., Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to Obligors or their securities) (each, a "Public Lender"). The Obligors hereby agree that (i) Communications that are to be made available on the Platform to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof, (ii) by marking Communications "PUBLIC," each Obligor shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to treat such Communications as either publicly available information or not material information (although it may be sensitive and proprietary) with respect to the Obligors or their securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws, (iii) all Communications marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Lender," and (iv) the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to treat any Communications that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Lender."
(d) Each Lender agrees that e-mail notice to it (at the address provided pursuant to the next sentence and deemed delivered as provided in the next paragraph) specifying that Communications have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such Communications to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement. Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Administrative Agent in writing (including by electronic communication) from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for
 
such Lender to which the foregoing notice may be sent by electronic transmission and (ii) that the foregoing notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
(e) Each party hereto agrees that any electronic communication referred to in this Section 10.15 shall be deemed delivered upon the posting of a record of such communication (properly addressed to such party at the e-mail address provided to the Administrative Agent) as "sent" in the e-mail system of the sending party or, in the case of any such communication to the Administrative Agent, upon the posting of a record of such communication as "" in the e-mail system of the Administrative Agent; that if such communication is not so received by any party during the normal business hours of the Administrative Agent, such communication shall be deemed delivered at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the Administrative Agent.
received
provided
(f) Each party hereto acknowledges that (i) the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and that there are confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution, (ii) the Communications and the Platform are provided "as is" and "as available," (iii) none of the Administrative Agent, its affiliates nor any of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, advisors or representatives (collectively, the "") warrants the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of the Communications or the Platform , and each Agent Party expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions in any Communications or the Platform, and (iv) no warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by any Agent Party in connection with any Communications or the Platform.
Agent Parties
Section 10.16Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Obligors that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Obligors, which information includes the name and address of the Obligors and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Obligors in accordance with the Act.
. USA PATRIOT Act Notice.
Act
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1.01
The Commitment Fee and the Applicable Margin, shall be, at any time, the rate per annum set forth in the Pricing Grid below opposite the Rating Level applicable at such time:
 
For the purposes of this Pricing Grid:
"" means that the Credit Ratings are better than or equal to at least two (2) of the following three (3): (i) A+ by S&P, (ii) A1 by Moody's and (iii) A+ by Fitch;
Level I
"" means that Level I shall not apply, and the Credit Ratings are better than or equal to at least two (2) of the following three (3): (i) A by S&P, (ii) A2 by Moody's and (iii) A by Fitch;
Level II
"" means that neither Level I nor Level II shall apply, and the Credit Ratings are better than or equal to at least two (2) of the following three (3): (i) A- by S&P, (ii) A3 by Moody's and (iii) A- by Fitch;
Level III
"" means that neither Level I, Level II nor Level III shall apply, and the Credit Ratings are better than or equal to at least two (2) of the following three (3): (i) BBB+ by S&P, (ii) Baa1 by Moody's and (iii) BBB+ by Fitch;
Level IV
"" means that neither Level I, Level II, Level III nor Level IV shall apply, and the Credit Ratings are better than or equal to at least two (2) of the following three (3): (i) BBB by S&P, (ii) Baa2 by Moody's and (iii) BBB by Fitch; and
Level V
"" means that neither Level I, Level II, Level III, Level IV nor Level V shall apply.
Level VI
If, at any time, no Credit Rating is available from S&P, Moody's and Fitch or any other nationally recognized statistical rating organization designated by the
Borrower and approved in writing by the Required Lenders, then the Commitment Fee and the Applicable Margin for each period commencing during the 30 days following such Credit Ratings becoming unavailable shall be the Commitment Fee and the Applicable Margin in effect immediately prior to such Credit Ratings becoming unavailable. Thereafter, the Credit Ratings to be used until Credit Ratings from S&P, Moody's and Fitch become available shall be as agreed between the Borrower and the Required Lenders, and the Borrower and the Required Lenders shall use good faith efforts to reach such agreement within such 30-day period; , , that if no such agreement is reached within such 30-day period, then the Commitment Fee and the Applicable Margin thereafter, until such agreement is reached, shall be (a) if any such Credit Rating has become unavailable as a result of S&P, Moody's and Fitch ceasing its business as a rating agency, the Commitment Fee and the Applicable Margin in effect immediately prior to such cessation or (b) otherwise, the Commitment Fee and the Applicable Margin set forth opposite Level VI.
provided
however
SCHEDULE 2.01
 
EXHIBIT A
New York, New York
, 20
            
    
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the ""), hereby promises to pay to or its permitted registered assigns (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Lender to the Borrower under that certain Five-Year Senior Credit Agreement, dated as of August 9, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrower, Covidien plc, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Borrower
                    
Lender
Agreement
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Agreement. All payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in dollars in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Agreement.
This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. This Note is also entitled to the benefits of the Guarantee in Article 8 of the Agreement and, to the extent applicable, each Subsidiary Guaranty. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Agreement. Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
Except as otherwise provided in the Agreement, the Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
EXHIBIT B
This Assignment and Assumption (this "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [] (the "") and [] (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full. For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including, without limitation, Guarantees included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as, the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assignment and Assumption
Insert name of Assignor
Assignor
Insert name of Assignee
Assignee
Credit Agreement
Assigned Interest
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective Date: , 20[TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
            
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
 
FIVE-YEAR SENIOR CREDIT AGREEMENT DATED AS OF AUGUST 9, 2011 AMONG COVIDIEN INTERNATIONAL FINANCE S.A., AS BORROWER, COVIDIEN PLC, THE LENDERS PARTIES THERETO, AND CITIBANK, N.A., AS ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1. . The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
1.2. . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all requirements of an eligible assignee under the Credit Agreement (subject to receipt of such consents as may be required under the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative or any other Lender, and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance
Assignee
 
with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignee whether such amounts have accrued prior to or on or after the Effective Date. The Assignor and the Assignee shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments by the Administrative for periods prior to the Effective Date or with respect to the making of this assignment directly between themselves.
Payments
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
EXHIBIT C-1
August [], 2011
The Lenders listed on Schedule I hereto (the "")
Lenders
and the Administrative Agent party to the
Credit Agreement referred to below
(collectively, the "")
Lender Parties
c/o Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am the General Counsel of Covidien plc, an Irish company (the ""), and in that capacity I, or lawyers under my supervision, have acted as counsel to the Guarantor in connection with the Five-Year Senior Credit Agreement dated as of August [], 2011 (the "") by and among Covidien International Finance S.A., as the borrower (the ""), the Guarantor, certain lenders as named therein (the ""), and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "").
Guarantor
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
Agent
This opinion is delivered to you pursuant to Section 4.01(c)(i) of the Credit Agreement. In connection with rendering this opinion, I, or lawyers under my supervision, have examined the Credit Agreement and such other agreements, records, certificates and documents, as we have deemed necessary or advisable. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires.
I am of the opinion that there is no action, suit or proceeding pending against, or, to the best of my knowledge, threatened against or affecting, the Guarantor before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official, that could, based upon the facts and circumstances in existence on the date hereof, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or that affects the validity of the Loan Documents except as disclosed in (i) as of and from June 29, 2007 to June 5, 2009, Covidien Ltd.'s filings of Forms 10-K, 10-Q or 8-K, and (ii) as of and after June 5, 2009, Covidien plc's filings of Forms 10-K, 10-Q or 8-K, in each case on or before the date hereof.
I render no opinion herein as to matters involving the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of New York, the State of New Jersey and of the United States of America.
This opinion is based on my knowledge of the law and facts as of the date hereof. I assume no duty to update or supplement this opinion to reflect any facts or circumstances that may hereafter come to my attention or to reflect any changes in any law which may hereafter occur or become effective.
This opinion is rendered solely for your benefit and the benefit of your permitted successors and assigns in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement and is not to be used for any other purpose, or circulated, quoted or otherwise referred to for any purpose, without, in each case, my written permission.
 
EXHIBIT C-2
Legal opinion
Dear Sirs,
 
As noted above, in this matter we have taken instructions solely from the Company. This legal opinion however has been addressed to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent in connection with the Company's entry into the Agreements (as such term is defined below) and is delivered at the request of the Company pursuant to Section 4.01(c)(ii) of the Credit Agreement. We note that we have not advised the Lenders and the Administrative Agent on the legal implications of the Agreements (other than those specifically opined on herein). We exceptionally accept addressing this legal opinion to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent solely in relation to the matters opined on herein, but the giving of this legal opinion is not to be taken as implying that we owe the Lenders and the Administrative Agent any duty of care in relation to the Agreements, the transactions contemplated by the Agreements or their commercial or financial implications.
Notwithstanding the provision of this legal opinion, we expressly reserve the right to represent and advise the Company (if the Company so requests) in relation to any matters affecting the Agreements at any time now or in the future (whether or not separate legal advisors are retained on any such matters by the
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The documents listed in paragraphs 2.6 and 2.7 above are herein collectively referred to as the Agreements. The term "Agreements" includes, for the purposes of paragraphs 3. and 5. below, any document in connection therewith.
Unless otherwise provided herein, terms and expressions shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Agreements.
 
In giving this legal opinion, we have assumed with your consent, and we have not verified independently:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based upon, and subject to, the assumptions made above and the qualifications set out below and subject to any matters not disclosed to us, we are of the opinion that, under the laws of Luxembourg in effect, and as construed and applied by the Luxembourg courts, on the date hereof:
 
The Company is a public limited liability company () formed for an unlimited duration and legally existing under the laws of Luxembourg.
socit anonyme
 
The Company has the corporate power and authority to enter into and perform the Agreements and has taken all necessary corporate actions to authorise the execution and delivery of the Agreements.
 
The Agreements have been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Company.
 
The execution, delivery and performance of the Agreements by the Company, and the compliance by the Company with the terms of the Agreements do not violate any applicable law of Luxembourg relating to public limited liability companies generally or the Articles.
 
No authorisations, approvals or consents of governmental, judicial and public bodies and authorities of or in Luxembourg are required in connection with the entry into or performance by the Company of the Agreements.
It is not necessary in order to ensure the enforceability or admissibility in evidence of the Agreements, that they be notarised or subject to any other
formality or be filed, recorded, registered or enrolled with any court or official authority in Luxembourg.
 
The choice of New York law as the governing law of the Agreements would be upheld as a valid choice of law by the courts of Luxembourg and applied by those courts in proceedings in relation to the Agreements as the governing law thereof.
 
The submission to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York by the Company contained in the Agreements constitutes an effective submission by the Company to the jurisdiction of such courts.
 
 
Pursuant to Luxembourg case law, the enforcement of such judgment is subject to the following requirements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company is not entitled to claim immunity from jurisdiction or immunity from enforcement with respect to any action or proceeding brought in connection with its obligations under the Agreements in the courts of Luxembourg.
 
Any non Luxembourg addressees hereof will not be deemed to be resident, domiciled or carrying on any commercial activity in Luxembourg as a result only of the execution, performance or enforcement of the Agreements by them.
 
It is not necessary that any non Luxembourg addressees hereof be authorised or qualified to carry on business in Luxembourg (i) by reason only of the execution or performance by them or any of them of the Agreements and (ii) in order to enable them to enforce their rights under the Agreements in Luxembourg.
 
According to the Certificate, on the day immediately prior to the date of issuance of the Certificate, no court order was recorded with the Register pursuant to which the Company had been adjudicated bankrupt () or become subject to, or benefited from, a reprieve from payment (), controlled management () or composition with creditors ().
faillite
sursis de paiement
gestion contrle
concordat prventif de faillite
 
The obligations of the Company under the Agreements will rank at least with all the other present and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company.
pari passu
 
There are no stamp, registration or similar taxes, duties or charges under the laws of Luxembourg payable in connection with the execution, performance, and enforcement by the relevant parties of the Agreements.
 
Any amount payable under, or with respect to, the Agreements may be made free and clear of, and without withholding or deduction for or on account of, withholding tax in Luxembourg.
 
Subject to qualification 5.32 hereafter, service of process against the Company effected in the manner set forth in section 10.09 of the Credit Agreement will be effective as valid service of process on the Company.
 
The above opinions are subject to the following qualifications:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In particular,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Luxembourg legal concepts are expressed in English terms and not in their original French or German terms. The concepts concerned may not be identical to the concepts described by the same English terms as they exist under the laws of other jurisdictions. It should be noted that there are always irreconcilable differences between languages making it impossible to guarantee a totally accurate translation or interpretation. In particular, there are always some legal concepts which exist in one jurisdiction and not in another, and in those cases it is bound to be difficult to provide a completely satisfactory translation or interpretation because the vocabulary is missing from the language. We accept no responsibility for omissions or inaccuracies to the extent that they are attributable to such factors.
This legal opinion is given to you exclusively in connection with the Agreements and may not be relied upon by you for any other purpose. You may not give copies of this legal opinion to others (other than your successors (in the context of mergers) and permitted assignees), or enable or allow any person or persons (other than your successors (in the context of mergers) and permitted assignees) to quote, rely upon or otherwise use part or all of this legal opinion without our prior written permission, except that you may provide copies of this opinion to your auditors, bank regulatory authorities, and as required by law or court order.
Yours faithfully,
EXHIBIT C-3
To the Agent and each Lender party to
the Credit Agreement referred to below
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel to the Loan Parties (as defined below) in connection with the Credit Agreement dated as of August [], 2011 (the ""), among Covidien International Finance S.A., a Luxembourg company (the ""), Covidien plc, an Irish company (""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (in such capacity, the ""), and the other agents named therein, in connection with the closing held this day under the Credit Agreement. Capitalized terms not defined in this opinion letter have the meanings ascribed to them in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
Company
Holdings
Agent
This opinion letter is furnished to you pursuant to Section 4.01(c)(iii) of the Credit Agreement. The Company and Holdings are referred to herein collectively as the "".
Loan Parties
In connection with this opinion letter, we have examined the following documents (unless otherwise noted, each dated as of the date hereof):
 
 
The agreements referred to in clauses (a) and (b) above are referred to herein collectively as the "".
Credit Documents
We have examined such certificates, documents and records and have made such investigation of fact and such examination of law as we have deemed appropriate in order to enable us to render the opinions set forth herein. In conducting such investigation of fact, we have relied, without independent verification, upon certificates of officers of the Loan Parties, public officials and other appropriate Persons.
In rendering the opinions set forth below, we have assumed that each of the Loan Parties (a) is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, (b) has the power to execute and deliver each of the Credit Documents to which it is a party and to perform its obligations thereunder and (c) has duly authorized, executed and delivered each of the Credit Documents to which it is a party.
The opinions expressed herein are limited to matters governed by the laws of the State of New York and the federal laws of the United States of America (collectively, the "").
Covered Laws
Based upon and subject to the foregoing and subject to the additional qualifications set forth below, we are of the opinion that:
1. Each of the Credit Documents constitutes the valid and binding obligation of each of the Loan Parties party thereto and is enforceable against each such Loan Party in accordance with its terms.
2. The execution and delivery by each Loan Party of the Credit Documents to which such Person is party and the performance by such Person of its obligations thereunder (a) will not violate any Covered Laws and (b) will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any of the agreements listed on hereto.
Schedule 1
3. Under the Covered Laws, no consent, approval, license or exemption by, or order or authorization of, or filing, recording or registration with, any governmental authority is required to be obtained or made by any of the Loan Parties in connection with the execution and delivery of the Credit Documents to which such Person is party or the performance by such Person of its obligations thereunder.
4. None of the Loan Parties is required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Our opinion that each of the Credit Documents constitutes the valid and binding obligation of each of the Loan Parties party thereto, enforceable against each such Loan Party in accordance with its terms, is subject to (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance and other laws of general application affecting the rights and remedies of creditors, (ii) general principles of equity and (iii) the possible judicial application of foreign laws or foreign governmental or judicial action affecting creditors' rights.
We express no opinion with respect to the applicability of Section 548 of the federal Bankruptcy Code or any comparable provision of state law.
Our opinions are also subject to the qualification that the enforceability of provisions in the Credit Documents providing for indemnification or contribution may be limited by public policy considerations. In addition, we express no opinion as to (i) the extent to which broadly worded waivers, waivers of rights to damages, offset or defenses, waivers of statutory, regulatory or constitutional rights, conclusive presumptions or determinations, powers of attorney or prohibitions on oral modifications may be enforced, (ii) the enforceability of any provision which provides for a right of setoff without notice or by an affiliate of a lender or a purchaser of a participation in the loans or other extensions of credit under the Credit Documents, or (iii) the enforceability of any provision for choice of law, submission to jurisdiction or judgment currency. In connection with the provisions of the Credit Documents whereby the parties submit to the jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, we note the limitations of 28 U.S.C.  1331 and 1332 on subject matter jurisdiction of the federal courts. In connection with the provisions of the Credit Documents requiring that any action with respect to the Credit Documents be brought only in the New York State courts located in the New York County or in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York,
we note that under NYCPLR  510 a New York State court has discretion to transfer the place of trial, and under 28 U.S.C.  1404(a) a United States District Court has discretion to transfer an action to another district or division where it might have been brought.
In addition, certain provisions contained in the Credit Documents may be unenforceable in whole or in part but the inclusion of such provisions in the Credit Documents does not affect the validity of any of the other provisions thereof, and the remaining provisions of the Credit Documents are sufficient for the practical realization of the benefits intended to be provided thereby.
This opinion letter is being furnished only to the addressees and is solely for their benefit and the benefit of their assignees who become Lenders under the Credit Agreement. This opinion may not be relied upon for any other purpose or by any other Person without our prior written consent.
 
Schedule 1
 
 
EXHIBIT C-4
[] August 2011
PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL
 
(as defined in the Schedule) and Citibank, N.A.
as Administrative Agent
 
Dear Sirs,
 
 
 
 
 
 
We express no opinion, and make no representation or warranty, as to any matter of fact or in respect of any documents which may exist in relation to the Transaction other than the Transaction Document.
All words and phrases defined in the Transaction Document and not defined herein shall have the same meanings herein as are respectively assigned to them in the Transaction Document. References in this opinion to the "" means the Companies Act 1963 of Ireland as amended and references to the "" means the Companies Act 1990 of Ireland as amended.
1963 Act
1990 Act
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capacity, Authority and Status
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However, the Irish courts may refuse to enforce a judgment of the courts of the State of New York which meets the above requirements for one of the following reasons:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that any Lender should be licensed, qualified or otherwise entitled to carry on business in Ireland.
 
For the purpose of giving this opinion we assume the following, without any responsibility on our part if any assumption proves to have been untrue as we have not verified independently any assumption:
Authenticity and bona fides
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accuracy of searches and warranties
 
 
 
Commercial Benefit
 
No other information and compliance
 
Authority, Capacity, Execution and Enforceability
 
 
 
 
Solvency and Insolvency
 
 
Financial Assistance and Connected Transactions
 
 
Governing law and jurisdiction
 
 
 
 
 
The opinions set out herein are subject to the following reservations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General Matters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Penalties
 
Foreign currencies
 
Judgements
 
Subordination and set-off
 
 
 
Such rights would also not be available if the person granting such rights has purported to assign or transfer its rights or title or interest in the debt owing to it.
Insolvency Regulation
 
Due Diligence and Searches
 
Sanctions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROVIDED THAT such body corporate does not operate through a branch in Ireland; or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The document listed at 1. above is referred to in this Opinion as the ".
Transaction Document"
EXHIBIT D
WHEREAS, Covidien International Finance S.A. (the ""), Covidien plc, the Lenders parties thereto, and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent have entered into the Five-Year Senior Credit Agreement, dated as of August 9, 2011 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, (as the same may be amended from time to time, the ""), pursuant to which the Borrower is or may be entitled, subject to certain conditions, to borrow loans thereunder;
Borrower
Credit Agreement
WHEREAS, in conjunction with the transactions contemplated by the Credit Agreement and in consideration of the financial and other support that the Borrower has provided, and such financial and other support as the Borrower may in the future provide, to the undersigned (together with its successors, the "") and in order to induce the Lenders and the Administrative Agent to enter into the Credit Agreement and to make extensions of credit thereunder, the Guarantor is willing to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Agreement and the Notes issued thereunder in accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents;
Guarantor
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Guarantor hereby agrees as follows:
. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement and not otherwise defined herein are used herein as therein defined, and the provisions of Sections 1.03 and 1.04 of the Credit Agreement shall apply to this Subsidiary Guaranty. In addition, the following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:
Section 1.01 Definitions
"" means (i) all obligations of the Borrower in respect of principal of and interest on the Loans and the Notes, (ii) all other amounts payable by the Borrower under the Credit Agreement or any Note and (iii) all renewals or extensions of the foregoing, in each case whether now outstanding or hereafter arising. The Guaranteed Obligations shall include, without limitation, any interest, costs, fees and expenses which accrue on or with respect to any of the foregoing and are payable by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement or any Note, whether before or after the commencement of any case, proceeding or other action relating to the bankruptcy, insolvency, examinership or reorganization of any one or more than one of the Obligors, and any such interest, costs, fees and expenses that would have accrued thereon or with respect thereto and would have been payable by the Borrower pursuant
Guaranteed Obligations
to the Credit Agreement or Note but for the commencement of such case, proceeding or other action.
"" means, at any time, collectively, the Borrower, the Guarantor (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and each Subsidiary Guarantor at such time.
Obligors
. Subject to Section 2.03, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and to each of them, the due and punctual payment of all Guaranteed Obligations as and when the same shall become due and payable, whether at maturity, by declaration or otherwise, according to the terms thereof. This is a continuing guarantee and a guarantee of payment and not merely of collection. In case of failure by the Borrower punctually to pay the indebtedness guaranteed hereby, the Guarantor, subject to Section 2.03, hereby unconditionally agrees to cause such payment to be made punctually as and when the same shall become due and payable, whether at maturity or by declaration or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Borrower.
Section 2.01 The Guarantee
. The obligations of the Guarantor under this Article 2 shall be unconditional and absolute and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall not be released, discharged or otherwise affected by:
Section 2.02 Guarantee Unconditional
(a) any extension, renewal, settlement, compromise, waiver or release in respect of any obligation of any other Obligor under any Loan Document, by operation of law or otherwise;
(b) any modification or amendment of or supplement to any Financing Document (other than as specified in an amendment or waiver of this Subsidiary Guaranty effected in accordance with Section 2.03);
(c) any modification, amendment, waiver, release, non-perfection or invalidity of any direct or indirect security, or of any guaranty or other liability of any third party, for any obligation of any other Obligor under any Loan Document;
(d) any change in the corporate existence, structure or ownership of any other Obligor, or any insolvency, examinership, bankruptcy, reorganization or other similar proceeding affecting any other Obligor or its assets or any resulting release or discharge of any obligation of any other Obligor contained in any Loan Document;
(e) the existence of any claim, set-off or other rights which the Guarantor may have at any time against any other Obligor, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Person, whether or not arising in connection with the Loan Document; that nothing herein shall prevent the assertion of any such claim by separate suit or compulsory counterclaim;
provided
(f) any invalidity or unenforceability relating to or against any other Obligor for any reason of any Loan Document, or any provision of applicable law or regulation purporting to
prohibit the payment by any other Obligor of the principal of or interest on any Loan or any other amount payable by any other Obligor under any Loan Document; or
(g) any other act or omission to act or delay of any kind by any other Obligor, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Person or any other circumstance whatsoever that might, but for the provisions of this paragraph, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of the obligations of the Guarantor under this Article 2.
. The Guarantor shall be liable under this Subsidiary Guaranty only for amounts aggregating up to the largest amount that would not render its obligations hereunder subject to avoidance under Section 548 of the United States Bankruptcy Code or any comparable provisions of any other applicable law. To the extent that the Guarantor shall be required hereunder to pay a portion of the Guaranteed Obligations which shall exceed the greater of (i) the amount of the economic benefit actually received by the Guarantor from the incurrence of the Loans under the Credit Agreement and (ii) the amount which the Guarantor would otherwise have paid if the Guarantor had paid the aggregate amount of the Guaranteed Obligations (excluding the amount thereof repaid by the Borrower and any other Subsidiary Guarantors) in the same proportion as the Guarantor's net worth at the date enforcement hereunder is sought bears to the aggregate net worth of all the Subsidiary Guarantors at the date enforcement hereunder is sought (the ""), then the Guarantor shall have a right of contribution against each other Subsidiary Guarantor who has made payments in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations to and including the date enforcement hereunder is sought in an aggregate amount less than such other Subsidiary Guarantor's Contribution Percentage of the aggregate payments made to and including the date enforcement hereunder is sought by all Subsidiary Guarantors in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations; that no Subsidiary Guarantor may take any action to enforce such right until the Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnification obligations with respect to unasserted claims) have been indefeasibly paid in full and the Commitments have been terminated, it being expressly recognized and agreed by all parties hereto that the Guarantor's right of contribution arising pursuant to this Section 2.03 against any other Subsidiary Guarantor shall be expressly junior and subordinate to such other Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations and liabilities in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations and any other obligations owing under any Subsidiary Guaranty. All parties hereto recognize and agree that, except for any right of contribution arising pursuant to this Section 2.03, each Subsidiary Guarantor who makes any payment in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations shall have no right of contribution or subrogation against any other Subsidiary Guarantor in respect of such payment. The Guarantor recognizes and acknowledges that the rights to contribution arising hereunder shall constitute an asset in favor of the party entitled to such contribution. In this connection, the Guarantor has the right to waive its contribution right against any other Subsidiary Guarantor to the extent that after giving effect to such waiver the Guarantor would remain solvent, in the determination of the Required Lenders.
Section 2.03 Limit of Liability
Contribution Percentage
provided
Subject to Section 4.06, the Guarantor's obligations under this Article II shall remain in full force and effect until the Commitments are terminated and the principal of and interest on the Loans and all other amounts payable by the Borrower under the Loan Documents shall have been paid in full. If at any time any payment of the principal of or interest on any Loan or any other amount payable by
Section 2.04 Discharge; Reinstatement in Certain Circumstances.
the Borrower under any Loan Document is rescinded or must be otherwise restored or returned upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of any other Obligor or otherwise, the Guarantor's obligations under this Article II with respect to such payment shall be reinstated at such time as though such payment had become due but had not been made at such time.
. The Guarantor irrevocably waives acceptance hereof, presentment, demand, protest and any notice not provided for herein, as well as any requirement that at any time any action be taken by any Person against any other Obligor or any other Person.
Section 2.05 Waiver
. (a) The Guarantor irrevocably waives any and all rights to which it may be entitled, by operation of law or otherwise, upon making any payment hereunder (i) to be subrogated to the rights of the payee against the Borrower with respect to such payment or otherwise to be reimbursed, indemnified or exonerated by any other Obligor in respect thereof or (ii) to receive any payment, in the nature of contribution or for any other reason, from any other Obligor with respect to such payment.
Section 2.06 Subrogation and Contribution
(b) Notwithstanding the provision of subsection (a) of this Section 2.06, the Guarantor shall have and be entitled to (i) all rights of subrogation or contribution otherwise provided by law in respect of any payment it may make or be obligated to make under this Subsidiary Guaranty and (ii) all claims (as defined under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended, or any successor statute (the "")) it would have against any Obligor or any other Subsidiary Guarantor (each an "") in the absence of subsection (a) of this Section 2.06 and to assert and enforce the same, in each case on and after, but at no time prior to, the date (the "") which is one year and five days after the Maturity Date if, but only if, (x) no Default or Event of Default of the type described in Article 6 of the Credit Agreement with respect to the relevant Other Party has existed at any time on and after the Subrogation Trigger Date and (y) the existence of the Guarantor's rights under this clause (b) would not make the Guarantor a creditor (as defined in the Bankruptcy Code) of such Other Party in any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding commenced on or prior to the Subrogation Trigger Date.
Bankruptcy Code
Other Party
Subrogation Trigger Date
. If acceleration of the time for payment of any amount payable by the Borrower under the Loan Documents is stayed upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Borrower, all such amounts otherwise subject to acceleration under the terms of the Loan Documents shall nonetheless be payable by the Guarantor hereunder forthwith on demand by the Administrative Agent made at the request of the Required Lenders.
Section 2.07 Stay of Acceleration
The Guarantor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
The Guarantor is a [corporation/limited liability company/limited partnership] duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of .
Section 3.01 Corporate Existence and Power.
                    
. The execution, delivery and performance by the Guarantor of this Subsidiary Guaranty:
Section 3.02 Corporate and Governmental Authorization; No Contravention
(a) are within the Guarantor's corporate or other organizational powers;
(b) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action on the part of the Guarantor;
(c) require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any Governmental Authority on the part of the Guarantor; and
(d) do not contravene, or constitute a default by the Guarantor under, any provision of (i) applicable law or regulation, except where such violation could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, (ii) the constitutional documents of the Guarantor, or (iii) any agreement or instrument evidencing or governing material Debt of the Guarantor or, except where such violation could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, any other agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other instrument binding upon the Guarantor.
. This Subsidiary Guaranty constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Guarantor.
Section 3.03 Binding Effect
. The Guarantor is not an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Section 3.04 Not an Investment Company
. All notices, requests and other communications to be made to or by the Guarantor hereunder shall be in writing (including, without limitation, bank wire, telex, facsimile transmission, email or similar writing) and shall be given: (a) if to the Guarantor, to it at its address, facsimile number or email address set forth on the signature pages hereof or such other address, facsimile number or email address as the Guarantor may hereafter specify for the purpose by notice to the Administrative Agent and (b) if to any party to the Credit Agreement, to it at its address, facsimile number or email address for notices specified in or pursuant to the Credit Agreement. Each such notice, request or other communication shall be effective (i) if given by facsimile, when such facsimile or email is transmitted to the facsimile transmission number or email address specified in this Section 4.01 and electronic, telephonic or other appropriate confirmation of receipt thereof is received by the sender, (ii) if given by mail, 72 hours after such communication is deposited in the mails with first class postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid or (ii) if given by any other means, when delivered at the address specified in this Section 4.01.
Section 4.01 Notices
. No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right, power or privilege under this Subsidiary Guaranty or any other Loan Document shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof
Section 4.02 No Waiver
preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein and therein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
. Any provision of this Subsidiary Guaranty may be amended or waived if, and only if, such amendment or waiver is entered into in accordance with Section 10.02 of the Credit Agreement.
Section 4.03 Amendments and Waivers
. This Subsidiary Guaranty is for the benefit of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective successors and assigns and in the event of an assignment of the Loans, the Notes or other amounts payable under the Loan Documents, the rights hereunder, to the extent applicable to the indebtedness so assigned, shall be transferred with such indebtedness. All the provisions of this Subsidiary Guaranty shall be binding upon the Guarantor and its successors and assigns.
Section 4.04 Successors and Assigns
. All payments by the Guarantor hereunder shall be made free and clear of Taxes and otherwise in accordance with Section 9.05 of the Credit Agreement (which Section, including but not limited to the indemnification provisions contained therein) is hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth herein, that each reference contained therein to an Obligor shall be a reference to the Guarantor).
Section 4.05 Taxes
provided
. (a) This Subsidiary Guaranty shall become effective when the Administrative Agent shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by the Guarantor.
Section 4.06 Effectiveness
(b) The Guarantor may at any time elect to terminate this Subsidiary Guaranty and its obligations hereunder if (i) after giving effect thereto, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (ii) at such time the Guarantor does not have in effect a guarantee the effect of which would require the Guarantor to be a Subsidiary Guarantor under the terms of Section 5.12 of the Credit Agreement. If the Guarantor so elects to terminate this Subsidiary Guaranty, it shall give the Administrative Agent notice to such effect, which notice shall be accompanied by a certificate of a Responsible Officer to the effect that, after giving effect to such termination, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing. The Administrative Agent may if it so elects conclusively rely on such certificate. Upon receipt of such notice and such certificate, unless the Administrative Agent determines that a Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Administrative Agent shall promptly deliver to the Guarantor the counterpart of this Subsidiary Guaranty delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 4.06(a), and upon such delivery this Subsidiary Guaranty shall terminate and the Guarantor shall have no further obligations hereunder. In addition to the foregoing, this Subsidiary Guaranty may be terminated and released in accordance with the terms of the penultimate paragraph of Article 7 of the Credit Agreement.
. (a) THIS SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. THE GUARANTOR HEREBY SUBMITS TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK AND OF THE
Section 4.07 GOVERNING LAW; SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, FOR PURPOSES OF ALL LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. THE GUARANTOR IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY OBJECTION WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT AND ANY CLAIM THAT ANY SUCH PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT HAS BEEN BROUGHT IN AN INCONVENIENT FORUM.
(b) If the Guarantor is not organized under the laws of the United States of America or a State thereof:
(i) . The Guarantor hereby irrevocably designates and appoints CT Corporation System having an office on the date hereof at 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011 as its authorized agent, to accept and acknowledge on its behalf, service or any and all process which may be served in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in subsection (a) above in any federal or New York State court sitting in New York City. The Guarantor represents and warrants that such agent has agreed in writing to accept such appointment and that a true copy of such designation and acceptance has been delivered to the Administrative Agent. Such designation and appointment shall be irrevocable until all principal and interest and all other amounts payable hereunder shall have been paid in full in accordance with the provisions hereof. If such agent shall cease so to act, the Guarantor covenants and agrees to designate irrevocably and appoint without delay another such agent satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and to deliver promptly to the Administrative Agent evidence in writing of such other agent's acceptance of such appointment.
Appointment of Agent for Service of Process
(ii) . The Guarantor hereby consents to process being served in any suit, action, or proceeding of the nature referred to in subsection (a) above in any federal or New York State court sitting in New York City by service of process upon the agent of the Guarantor, as the case may be, for service of process in such jurisdiction appointed as provided in subsection (b)(i) above; that, to the extent lawful and possible, written notice of said service upon such agent shall be mailed by registered airmail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Guarantor at its address specified on the signature pages hereof or to any other address of which the Guarantor shall have given written notice to the Administrative Agent. The Guarantor irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, all claim of error by reason of any such service and agrees that such service shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon the Guarantor in any such suit, action or proceeding and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be taken and held to be valid and personal service upon and personal delivery to the Guarantor.
Service of Process
provided
(iii) . Nothing in this Section 4.07 shall affect the right of the Administrative Agent or any Lender to serve process in any other manner
No Limitation on Service or Suit
permitted by law or limit the right of the Administrative Agent or any Lender to bring proceedings against the Guarantor in the courts of any jurisdiction or jurisdictions.
(iv) . To the extent permitted by applicable law, if the Guarantor has or hereafter may acquire any immunity (sovereign or otherwise) from any legal action, suit or proceeding, from jurisdiction of any court or from set-off or any legal process (whether service or notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution of judgment, execution of judgment or otherwise) with respect to itself or any of its property, the Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives and agrees not to plead or claim such immunity in respect of its obligations under this Subsidiary Guaranty. The Guarantor agrees that the waivers set forth above shall be to the fullest extent permitted under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976 of the United States of America and are intended to be irrevocable and not subject to withdrawal for purposes of such Act.
Waiver of Immunities
. THE GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Section 4.08 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
. If, under any applicable law and whether pursuant to a judgment being made or registered against the Guarantor or for any other reason, any payment under or in connection with this Subsidiary Guaranty, is made or satisfied in a currency (the "") other than that in which the relevant payment is due (the "") then, to the extent that the payment (when converted into the Required Currency at the rate of exchange on the date of payment or, if it is not practicable for the party entitled thereto (the "") to purchase the Required Currency with the other Currency on the date of payment, at the rate of exchange as soon thereafter as it is practicable for it to do so) actually received by the Payee falls short of the amount due under the terms of this Subsidiary Guaranty, the Guarantor shall, to the extent permitted by law, as a separate and independent obligation, indemnify and hold harmless the Payee against the amount of such shortfall. For the purpose of this Section, "rate of exchange" means the rate at which the Payee is able on the relevant date to purchase the Required Currency with the Other Currency and shall take into account any premium and other costs of exchange.
Section 4.09 Judgment Currency
Other Currency
Required Currency
Payee
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Guarantor has caused this instrument to be duly executed by its authorized officer as of the date first above written.
 


