FILE:COV/COV-8K-20110316080726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A copy of the press release regarding Mr. Meelia's retirement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Mr. Almeida, 48, has been a Senior Vice President since June 2007 and President, Medical Devices of Covidien since October 2006. From April 2004 to October 2006, Mr. Almeida was President of Covidien's International business.
In connection with his election as Chief Executive Officer and President, effective July 1, 2011, Mr. Almeida will receive an increase in his annual base salary from $782,000 to $1.1 million and his target bonus opportunity under our annual cash incentive plan will be increased to 120%. He will also receive a one-time equity grant consisting of $3.0 million in restricted stock units, all of which vest on July 1, 2014, and $792,000, in equal parts restricted stock units and stock options, which vest in equal installments on the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the date of grant.
A copy of the press release regarding Mr. Almeida's election is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 16, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
Dublin, Ireland  March 16, 2011  The Board of Directors of Covidien plc (NYSE: COV) today announced that Richard J. Meelia will retire as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, effective July 1. Mr. Meelia will serve as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board for a transition period of up to one year following his retirement as CEO.
The Board also announced that Jose (Joe) E. Almeida, President of Covidien's Medical Devices business segment, has been elected to succeed Mr. Meelia as President and Chief Executive Officer.
"Rich Meelia has been a strong and highly effective leader, and his service as CEO is deeply appreciated," said Timothy M. Donahue, lead director on the Company's Board. "Under his leadership, Covidien has introduced a record number of innovative new products, realigned and strengthened its portfolio, significantly reduced costs, developed a deep bench of management talent and created increased value for shareholders.
"We are very pleased that Covidien will continue to have the benefit of his invaluable counsel as we transition smoothly to Joe Almeida's leadership of our world-class management team," Mr. Donahue said.
Mr. Meelia, 62, was elected President and CEO of Covidien when the business, then known as Tyco Healthcare, spun off from parent company Tyco International in June 2007. He was elected Chairman of the Board of Covidien in October 2008.
"I am very proud of all that we have achieved in the four years that Covidien has been an independent company," said Mr. Meelia, under whose leadership Covidien delivered significant gains in operational sales, profit margin and earnings per share. "We have great vitality across our broad product range, strong growth momentum in new and established markets and an unrivaled commitment to innovation that offers us tremendous prospects for the future.
"Fortunately, I have been surrounded by a dedicated, talented and highly effective team for the past 20 years. It has been an honor to lead such an outstanding organization, and I look forward to continuing to serve on the Board," Mr. Meelia added.
Mr. Almeida, 48, joined Tyco Healthcare in 1995 and was appointed to his current position as head of Medical Devices in October 2006. The Medical Devices business accounts for about two-thirds of Covidien's total annual revenue and three-quarters of its operating profit.
ABOUT COVIDIEN
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in three segments: Medical Devices, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies. With 2010 revenue of $10.4 billion, Covidien has 42,000 employees worldwide in more than 65 countries, and its products are sold in over 140 countries. Please visit www.covidien.com to learn more about our business.
CONTACTS
 

Exhibit 99.2
Dublin, Ireland  March 16, 2011  The Board of Directors of Covidien plc (NYSE: COV) today announced that Jose (Joe) E. Almeida, President of Covidien's Medical Devices business segment, has been elected President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, effective with the planned retirement of CEO Richard J. Meelia on July 1. Mr. Almeida also was elected to the Company's Board of Directors, effective July 1.
Mr. Almeida, 48, has served since October 2006 as President of Medical Devices, which is Covidien's largest business, accounting for about two-thirds of the Company's total annual revenues and about three-quarters of its operating profit.
"Joe has an outstanding track record of achievement. His comprehensive knowledge of our business and his decisive management style make him uniquely qualified to lead Covidien into a new era of strong profitable growth," said Timothy M. Donahue, lead director on the Company's Board. "Under Joe's dynamic leadership, Covidien will accelerate its drive to the frontiers of innovation. We are delighted that Joe will be our new chief executive officer, and we know Covidien shareholders, customers and employees will share our enthusiasm and excitement."
Under Mr. Almeida's stewardship, the Medical Devices business has increased its sales at a 9% compounded annual growth rate; introduced more than 70 innovative products in fast-growing, high-margin categories; launched the Company's emerging markets growth initiative, while significantly expanding global sales and marketing functions; improved speed-to-market; and strengthened Covidien's focus on innovation and evidence-based medicine.
Mr. Almeida joined the Company, then known as Tyco Healthcare, in 1995 as Director of Manufacturing and Corporate Engineering. He later served as Vice President of Global Manufacturing and then President of International in 2004. Tyco Healthcare spun off from parent company Tyco International in June 2007. Mr. Almeida also held mid- and senior-level positions at Andersen Consulting, Johnson & Johnson, Acufex Medical and Greatbatch Inc.
A graduate of the Instituto Maua de Tecnologia in So Paulo, Brazil, with a Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering, Mr. Almeida serves on the executive committee of the Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed).
ABOUT COVIDIEN
Covidien is a leading global healthcare products company that creates innovative medical solutions for better patient outcomes and delivers value through clinical leadership and
excellence. Covidien manufactures, distributes and services a diverse range of industry-leading product lines in three segments: Medical Devices, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies. With 2010 revenue of $10.4 billion, Covidien has 42,000 employees worldwide in more than 65 countries, and its products are sold in over 140 countries. Please visit www.covidien.com to learn more about our business.
CONTACTS
 


