FILE:COV/COV-8K-20120822090244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 22, 2012
 
 
COVIDIEN PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
 
20 On Hatch, Lower Hatch Street
Dublin 2, Ireland
(Address of Principal Executive Offices, including Zip Code)
+353 (1) 438-1700
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 22, 2012, Covidien plc (Covidien or the Company) issued a press release announcing that it is conducting a voluntary recall of all production lots for the Duet TRS Universal Straight and Articulating Single-Use Loading Units. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Covidien currently expects that the loss of product sales, coupled with the implementation of the recall and other costs, will lower fourth quarter 2012 GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by several cents. For fiscal 2013, the Company expects the recall to reduce GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by five to ten cents. In the nine months ended June 29, 2012, Duet net sales were less than $50 million.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Any statements contained in this report that do not describe historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statements contained herein are based on our management's current beliefs and expectations, but are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results or Company actions to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. The factors that could cause actual future results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to, our ability to effectively introduce and market new products or keep pace with advances in technology, the reimbursement practices of a small number of large public and private insurers, cost-containment efforts of customers, purchasing groups, third-party payors and governmental organizations, intellectual property rights disputes, complex and costly regulation, including healthcare fraud and abuse regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, manufacturing or supply chain problems or disruptions, rising commodity costs, recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity relating to Covidien or its products, product liability losses and other litigation liability, divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines, our ability to execute strategic acquisitions of, investments in or alliances with other companies and businesses, competition, risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, foreign currency exchange rates and environmental remediation costs. These and other factors are identified and described in more detail in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, and in subsequent filings with the SEC. We disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements other than as required by law.
(d)    Exhibits
99.1    Press Release dated August 22, 2012.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 22, 2012
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Covidien Conducts Voluntary Recall and Discontinues Duet TRS
TM
Reload
MANSFIELD, Mass. - August 22, 2012 - Covidien today announced that it is conducting a voluntary recall of all production lots for the Duet TRS Universal Straight and Articulating Single-Use Loading Units (SULU). In addition, the Company has discontinued manufacturing the Duet TRS Universal Straight and Articulating SULU.
Covidien has received one report that links the Duet TRS tissue reinforcement material to a post-operative injury after abdominal surgery. The Company has concluded that Duet TRS may have the potential to injure adjacent anatomical structures, which may result in life threatening post-operative complications. This voluntary recall is in addition to the recall announced January 16, 2012, relating to the contraindication of the device in the thoracic cavity. At that time, Covidien received reports of 13 serious injuries and three fatalities following the application of Duet TRS in the thoracic cavity.
The affected product codes and descriptions are as follows:
Launched in 2009, the Duet TRS reload is a SULU with a fully integrated tissue reinforcement system to support staple lines in tissues. To date, the Company has sold more than 540,000 units worldwide.
Customers have been notified of this recall by letter on August 21, 2012. All Duet TRS product can be returned by contacting Customer Service at
feedback.customerservice@covidien.com
or 1-800-722-8772, option 1, to obtain a Return Goods Authorization (RGA) prior to returning the affected units.
Healthcare professionals and customers may report adverse events or quality problems experienced with the use of this product to the FDA's MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program either online, by fax or by phone.
 
CONTACTS
Bruce Farmer
Vice President
Public Relations
508-452-4372
bruce.farmer@covidien.com
John Jordan
Manager, Communications
Surgical Solutions
508-452-4891
john.jordan@covidien.com
 
Coleman Lannum, CFA
Vice President
Investor Relations
508-452-4343
cole.lannum@covidien.com
Todd Carpenter
Director
Investor Relations
508-452-4363
todd.carpenter@covidien.com


