FILE:COV/COV-8K-20120316162544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the Company's Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on March 13, 2012, the shareholders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shares were voted on these proposals as follows:
To re-elect ten (10) directors to hold office until the Company's next Annual General Meeting of Shareholders:
Proposals 1(a)-(j).
 
To appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the independent auditors of the Company for the fiscal year ending September 28, 2012 and authorize the Audit Committee to set the auditors' remuneration:
Proposal 2.
 
To approve, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's named executive officers described in the Proxy Statement:
Proposal 3.
 
To authorize the Company and/or any subsidiary of the Company to make market purchases of Company shares:
Proposal 4.
 
To authorize, via special resolution, the price range at which Covidien can reissue shares that it holds as treasury shares:
Proposal 5.
 
To amend, via special resolution, the Company's Articles of Association to provide for escheatment in accordance with U.S. laws:
Proposal 6.
 
To amend, via special resolution, the Company's Articles of Association to give the Board of Directors the authority to declare non-cash dividends:
Proposal 7.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 16, 2012
 

Exhibit 3.1
Cert. No.: 466385
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The objects set forth in any sub-clause of this clause shall be regarded as independent objects and shall not, except where the context expressly so requires, be in any way limited or restricted by reference to or inference from the terms of any other sub-clause, or by the name of the Company. None of such sub-clauses or the objects therein specified or the powers thereby conferred shall be deemed subsidiary or auxiliary merely to the objects mentioned in the first sub-clause of this clause, but the Company shall have full power to exercise all or any of the powers conferred by any part of this cause in any part of the world notwithstanding that the business, property or acts proposed to be transacted, acquired or performed do not fall within the objects of the first sub-clause of this clause.
 
 
 
 
 
We, the several persons whose names and addresses are subscribed, wish to be formed into a company in pursuance of this memorandum of association and we agree to take the number of shares in the capital of the company set opposite our respective names.
 
Dated the 14
th
day of January 2009
Witness to the above signatures:
Louise Gaffney, Arthur Cox Building,
Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin 2
 
 
 
"Act" means the Companies Act, 1963 (No. 33 of 1963) as amended by the Companies Acts 1977 to 2005 and Parts 2 and 3 of the Investment Funds, Companies and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 2006, and all statutory instruments which are to be read as one with, or construed, or to be read together with the Companies Acts.
"1983 Act" the Companies (Amendment) Act 1983.
"1990 Act" means the Companies Act 1990 (No. 33 of 1990).
"Acts" means the Companies Acts 1963 to 2005 and Parts 2 and 3 of the Investment Funds, Companies and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 2006, and all statutory instruments which are to be read as one with, or construed, or to be read together with the Companies Acts.
"address" includes any number or address used for the purposes of communication by way of electronic mail or other electronic communication.
"Assistant Secretary" means any person appointed by the Secretary from time to time to assist the Secretary.
"Clear Days" in relation to the period of notice, that period excluding the day when the notice is given or deemed to be given and the day for which it is given or on which it is to take effect.
"electronic communication" has the meaning given to those words in the Electronic Commerce Act 2000.
"electronic signature" has the meaning given to those words in the Electronic Commerce Act 2000.
"Ordinary Resolution" means an ordinary resolution of the Company's members within the meaning of section 141 of the Act.
"Redeemable Shares" means redeemable shares in accordance with section 206 of the 1990 Act.
"Register" means the register of members to be kept as required in accordance with section 116 of the Act,
"Special Resolution" means a special resolution of the Company's members within the meaning of section 141 of the Act
"the Company" means the company whose name appears in the heading to these articles.
 
"the Directors" or "the Board" means the directors from time to time and for the time being of the Company or the directors present at a meeting of the board of directors and includes any person occupying the position of director by whatever name called.
"the Group" means the Company and its subsidiaries from time to time and for the time being.
"the Holder" in relation to any share, the member whose name is entered in the Register as the holder of the share or, where the context permits, the members whose names are entered in the Register as the joint holders of shares.
"the Office" means the registered office from time to time and for the time being of the Company.
"the seal" means the common seal of the Company.
"the Secretary" means any person appointed to perform the duties of the secretary of the Company.
"these articles" means the articles of association of which this article 2 forms part, as the same may be amended and may be from time to time and for the time being in force.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares may be subject to the terms of issue of any series or class of preferred shares allotted by the Directors from time to time in accordance with article 3(c).
 
 
 
 
 
which rights and restrictions may be as stated in such resolution or resolutions of the Directors as determined by them in accordance with this article 3(c). The Board may at any time before the allotment of any preferred share by further resolution in any way amend the designations, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations or restrictions, or vary or revoke the designations of such preferred shares.
The rights conferred upon the Holder of any pre-existing shares in the share capital of the Company shall be deemed not to be varied by the creation, issue and allotment of preferred shares in accordance with this article 3.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless a poll is so demanded, a declaration by the Chairman that a resolution has, on a show of hands, been carried or carried unanimously, or by a particular majority, or lost, and an entry to that effect in
 
the book containing the minutes of the proceedings of the Company, shall be conclusive evidence of the fact without proof of the number or proportion of the notes recorded in favour of or against such resolution.
The demand for a poll may be withdrawn.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Directors have elected a Director to be the Chairman, the Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board and at general meetings of the Company.
 
One of the senior executives shall be appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Company by the Board. The Chief Executive Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be conferred upon him or her by the Board.
 
The President shall be appointed by the Directors and shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board may assign.
 
Each Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be conferred upon him or her by the Board or determined by the Chief Executive Officer.
 
The Treasurer shall have the oversight and control of the funds of the Company and shall have the power and authority to make and endorse notes, drafts and checks and other obligations necessary for the transaction of the business of the Company except as otherwise provided in these articles.
 
The Controller shall have the oversight and control of the accounting records of the Company and shall prepare such accounting reports and recommendations as shall be appropriate for the operation of the Company.
 
It shall be the duty of the Secretary to make and keep records of the votes, doings and proceedings of all meetings of the members and Board of the Company, and of its Committees, and to authenticate records of the Company. The Secretary shall be appointed by the Directors for such term, at such remuneration and upon such conditions as they may think fit; and any Secretary so appointed may be removed by them.
A provision of the Acts or these articles requiring or authorising a thing to be done by or to a Director and the Secretary shall not be satisfied by its being done by or to the same person acting both as Director and as, or in place of, the Secretary.
 
The Assistant Treasurers shall have such duties as the Treasurer shall determine.
 
The Assistant Secretaries shall have such duties as the Secretary shall determine.
 
The powers and duties of all other officers are at all times subject to the control of the Directors, and any other officer may be removed at any time at the pleasure of the Board.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Books of account shall be kept on a continuous and consistent basis and entries therein shall be made in a timely manner and be consistent from year to year. Proper books of account shall not be deemed to be kept if there are not kept such books of account as are necessary to give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs and to explain its transactions.
The Company may send by post, electronic mail or any other means of electronic communication a summary financial statement to its members or persons nominated by any member. The Company may meet, but shall be under no obligation to meet, any request from any of its members to be sent additional copies of its full report and accounts or summary financial statement or other communications with its members.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses as the court shall deem proper. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, this section shall not extend to any matter which would render it void pursuant to the Acts or to any person holding the office of auditor in relation to the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and it shall be presumed conclusively in favour of the Company that every share certificate (if any) so destroyed was a valid certificate duly and properly sealed and that every instrument of transfer so destroyed was a valid and effective instrument duly and properly registered and that every other document destroyed hereunder was a valid and effective document in accordance with the recorded particulars thereof in the books or records of the Company provided always that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Names, addresses and descriptions of subscribers
For and on behalf of Fand Limited
Arthur Cox Building Earlsfort Terrace
Dublin 2
For and on behalf of
Attleborough Limited
Arthur Cox Building
Earlsfort Terrace
Dublin 2
For and on behalf of
AC Administration Services Limited
Arthur Cox Building
Earlsfort Terrace
Dublin 2
Jacqueline McGowan-Smyth
Arthur Cox Building
Earlsfort Terrace
Dublin 2
Chartered Secretary
James Heary
Arthur Cox Building
Earlsfort Terrace
Dublin 2
Chartered Accountant
Richard Steen
Arthur Cox Building
Earlsfort Terrace
Dublin 2
Solicitor
Karol Corcoran
Arthur Cox Building
Earlsfort Terrace
Dublin 2
Solicitor
Dated the 14th day of January 2009
Witness to the above signatures:
 
 
 


