ITEM 7MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSOur Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) includes the following sections:Executive Overview that discusses at a high level our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business.Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments underlying our financial statements.Results of Operations that includes a more detailed discussion of our revenue and expenses.Liquidity and Capital Resources which discusses key aspects of our statements of cash flows, changes in our balance sheets and our financial commitments.You should note that this MD&A discussion contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see the section entitled Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors at the beginning of Item 1A for important information to consider when evaluating such statements.You should read this MD&A in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Report. In fiscal 2010 we acquired Mint Software Inc. and Medfusion, Inc. and in fiscal 2012 we acquired Demandforce, Inc. We have included the results of operations for each of them in our consolidated results of operations from their respective dates of acquisition.We have reclassified our financial statements for all periods presented to reflect our Intuit Real Estate Solutions and Intuit Websites businesses as discontinued operations. See Results of Operations Discontinued Operations later in this Item 7 for more information. Unless otherwise noted, the following discussion pertains only to our continuing operations.Executive OverviewThis overview provides a high level discussion of our operating results and some of the trends that affect our business. We believe that an understanding of these trends is important in order to understand our financial results for fiscal 2012 as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Overview of Financial ResultsTotal net revenue for fiscal 2012 was $4.2 billion, an increase of 10% compared with fiscal 2011. Our Small Business Group and our Consumer Tax segment were the key drivers of revenue growth. Revenue from our Small Business Group increased 14% compared with fiscal 2011 due to growth in connected services offerings and improved offering mix. Revenue from our Consumer Tax segment increased 11% compared with fiscal 2011 due to 6% growth in paid federal units and favorable offering mix. Operating income from continuing operations increased 14% in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011 due to higher revenue partially offset by higher costs and expenses. Operating expenses were higher due to increases in staffing expenses and, to a lesser extent, increases in share based compensation expenses. Net income from continuing operations increased 18% 32Tables of Contentsin fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011 due to the increase in operating income, lower interest expense and a slightly lower effective tax rate. Diluted net income per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2012 increased 22% to $2.52 as a result of the increase in net income and the decline in weighted average diluted shares compared with fiscal 2011.We ended fiscal 2012 with cash, cash equivalents and investments totaling $744 million. In fiscal 2012 we generated cash from operations, from net sales of investments, and from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. During the same period we used cash for the repurchase of shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, the repayment of debt, the acquisition of Demandforce, Inc., the payment of cash dividends, and capital expenditures. At July 31, 2012, we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $1.7 billion for stock repurchases through August 15, 2014. SeasonalityOur QuickBooks, Consumer Tax and Accounting Professionals offerings are highly seasonal. Revenue from our QuickBooks software products tends to be highest during our second and third fiscal quarters. Sales of income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. In our Consumer Tax business, a greater proportion of our revenue has been occurring later in this seasonal period due in part to the growth in sales of TurboTax Online, for which revenue is recognized upon printing or electronic filing of a tax return. The seasonality of our Consumer Tax and Accounting Professionals revenue is also affected by the timing of the availability of tax forms from taxing agencies and the ability of those agencies to receive electronic tax return submissions. Delays in the availability of tax forms or the ability of taxing agencies to receive submissions can cause revenue to shift between our fiscal quarters. These seasonal patterns mean that our total net revenue is usually highest during our second quarter ending January 31 and third quarter ending April 30. We typically report losses in our first quarter ending October 31 and fourth quarter ending July 31, when revenue from our tax businesses is minimal while core operating expenses such as research and development continue at relatively consistent levels. We believe the seasonality of our revenue and profitability is likely to continue in the future.Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesIn preparing our financial statements, we make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on our net revenue, operating income or loss and net income or loss, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our balance sheet. We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described below have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Senior management has reviewed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and their disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10 K with the Audit and Risk Committee of our Board of Directors.Revenue RecognitionWe derive revenue from the sale of packaged software products, software subscriptions, hosted services, technical support plans, financial supplies, implementation services, transaction fees, merchant services hardware, and multiple element arrangements that may include a combination of these items. We follow the appropriate revenue recognition rules for each type of revenue. For additional information, see Revenue Recognition in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this report. We generally recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, we have delivered the product or performed the service, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectibility is probable. However, determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves exercising judgment and using estimates that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. For example, for multiple element arrangements containing only software and software related elements, we must exercise judgment and use estimates in order to (1) allocate the total price among the various elements we must deliver; (2) determine whether undelivered services are essential to the functionality of the delivered products and services; (3) determine whether vendor specific evidence of fair value exists for each undelivered element; and (4) determine whether and when each element has been delivered. For multiple element arrangements containing non software elements, we must exercise judgment and use estimates in order to (1) determine whether and when each element has been delivered; (2) determine the fair value of each element using the selling price hierarchy of vendor specific evidence of fair value (VSOE) of fair value if available, third party evidence (TPE) if VSOE is not available, and estimated selling price (ESP) if neither VSOE nor TPE is available; and (3) allocate the total price among the various elements based on the relative selling price method. If we were to change any of these judgments or estimates, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. Amounts for fees collected or invoiced and due relating to arrangements where revenue cannot be recognized are reflected on our balance sheet as deferred revenue and recognized when the applicable revenue recognition criteria are satisfied.33Tables of ContentsIn connection with the sale of certain products, we provide a limited amount of free technical support assistance to customers. We do not defer the recognition of any revenue associated with sales of these products since the cost of providing this free technical support is insignificant. The technical support is generally provided within one year after the associated revenue is recognized and free product enhancements are minimal and infrequent. We accrue the estimated cost of providing this free support upon product shipment.Return and Rebate ReservesAs part of our revenue recognition policy, we estimate future product returns and rebate payments and establish reserves against revenue at the time of sale based on these estimates. Our return policy allows distributors and retailers, subject to contractual limitations, to return purchased products. Product returns by distributors and retailers relate primarily to the return of excess and obsolete products. In determining our product returns reserves, we consider the volume and price mix of products in the retail channel, historical return rates for prior releases of the product, trends in retailer inventory and economic trends that might impact customer demand for our products (including the competitive environment and the timing of new releases of our products). We fully reserve for excess and obsolete products in the distribution channels.Our rebate reserves include distributor and retailer sales incentive rebates and end user rebates. Our estimated reserves for distributor and retailer incentive rebates are based on distributors and retailers actual performance against the terms and conditions of rebate programs, which we typically establish annually. Our reserves for end user rebates are estimated based on the terms and conditions of the specific promotional rebate program, actual sales during the promotion and historical redemption trends by product and by type of promotional program.In the past, actual returns and rebates have not differed significantly from the reserves that we have established. However, actual returns and rebates in any future period are inherently uncertain. If we were to change our assumptions and estimates, our revenue reserves would change, which would impact the net revenue we report. If actual returns and rebates are significantly greater than the reserves we have established, the actual results would decrease our future reported revenue. Conversely, if actual returns and rebates are significantly less than our reserves, this would increase our future reported revenue. For example, if we had increased our fiscal 2012 returns reserves by 1% of non consignment sales to retailers for QuickBooks, TurboTax and Quicken, our total net revenue for fiscal 2012 would have been approximately $3 million lower.Allowance for Doubtful AccountsWe make ongoing assumptions relating to the collectibility of our accounts receivable. The accounts receivable amounts presented on our balance sheets include reserves for accounts that might not be paid. In determining the amount of these reserves, we consider our historical level of credit losses. We also make judgments about the creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations, and we assess current economic trends that might impact the level of credit losses in the future. Our reserves have generally been adequate to cover our actual credit losses. However, since we cannot reliably predict future changes in the financial stability of our customers, we cannot guarantee that our reserves will continue to be adequate. If actual credit losses are significantly greater than the reserve we have established, that would increase our general and administrative expenses and reduce our reported net income. Conversely, if actual credit losses are significantly less than our reserve, this would eventually decrease our general and administrative expenses and increase our reported net income. We had a total of $229 million in gross accounts receivable and an allowance for doubtful accounts of $46 million on our balance sheet at July 31, 2012.Fair Value of Investments and Other Than Temporary ImpairmentsAs described in Note 2 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report, we estimate the fair value of our available for sale debt securities each quarter. These investments consist of cash equivalents, municipal bonds, U.S. treasury securities, U.S. agency securities, corporate notes and municipal auction rate securities. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. When identical or similar assets are traded in active markets, the level of judgment required to estimate their fair value is relatively low. This is generally true for our cash equivalents, which we consider to be Level 1 assets, and our municipal bonds, U.S. agency securities and corporate notes, which we consider to be Level 2 assets. We measure the fair values of our Level 2 investments with the help of a pricing service that either provides quoted market prices in active markets for identical or similar securities or uses observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure that we record appropriate fair values for our Level 2 investments. These controls include comparison to pricing provided by a secondary pricing service or investment manager, validation of pricing sources and models, review of key model inputs, analysis of period over period price fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. 34Tables of ContentsSignificant judgment is required to estimate the fair value of assets and liabilities when observable inputs are not available (Level 3). For example, we use a discounted cash flow model to estimate the fair value of our municipal auction rate securities because we have determined that the market for those securities is inactive. Some of the key inputs to our discounted cash flow model are inherently uncertain. The key inputs include projected future interest rates; the likely timing of principal repayments; the probability of full repayment; publicly available pricing data for recently issued similar securities that are not subject to auctions; and the impact of the reduced liquidity for auction rate securities. At July 31, 2012, we held a total of $41 million in municipal auction rate securities, which was not significant compared with total available for sale debt securities of $567 million at that date.We record unrealized gains and losses on our available for sale securities, net of income taxes, in other comprehensive income in the equity section of our balance sheet until the security is sold or we determine that the decrease in fair value is other than temporary. We consider a number of factors in determining whether to recognize an impairment charge, including the reason for the decrease in fair value, the severity of the decrease in fair value, the length of time that the fair value has been less than the cost basis of the security, the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, and whether we intend to sell or may be required to sell the security before anticipated recovery of our cost basis. Changes in our estimates of the fair values of our available for sale securities may result in material increases or decreases in our net income in the period in which the change occurs.Business CombinationsAs described in Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Business Combinations, in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report, under the acquisition method of accounting we generally recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in an acquiree at their fair values as of the date of acquisition. We measure goodwill as the excess of consideration transferred, which we also measure at fair value, over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The acquisition method of accounting requires us to exercise judgment and make significant estimates and assumptions regarding the fair values of the elements of a business combination as of the date of acquisition, including the fair values of identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax asset valuation allowances, liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, and contingencies. This method also requires us to refine these estimates over a one year measurement period to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. If we are required to retroactively adjust provisional amounts that we have recorded for the fair values of assets and liabilities in connection with acquisitions, these adjustments could materially decrease our operating income and net income and result in lower asset values on our balance sheet.Significant estimates and assumptions that we must make in estimating the fair value of acquired technology, customer lists, and other identifiable intangible assets include future cash flows that we expect to generate from the acquired assets. If the subsequent actual results and updated projections of the underlying business activity change compared with the assumptions and projections used to develop these values, we could record impairment charges. In addition, we have estimated the economic lives of certain acquired assets and these lives are used to calculate depreciation and amortization expense. If our estimates of the economic lives change, depreciation or amortization expenses could be accelerated or slowed.Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long Lived Assets Impairment AssessmentsWe estimate the fair value of acquired intangible assets and other long lived assets that have finite useful lives whenever an event or change in circumstances indicates that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. We test for potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or whenever indicators of impairment arise. The timing of the annual test may result in charges to our statement of operations in our fourth fiscal quarter that could not have been reasonably foreseen in prior periods.As described in Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long Lived Assets, in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report, in order to estimate the fair value of goodwill we use a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow model (known as the income approach) and comparisons to publicly traded companies engaged in similar businesses (known as the market approach). The income approach requires us to use a number of assumptions, including market factors specific to the business, the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the business over an extended period of time, long term growth rates for the business, and a rate of return that considers the relative risk of achieving the cash flows and the time value of money. We evaluate cash flows at the reporting unit level and the number of reporting units that we have identified may make impairment more probable than it would be at a company with fewer reporting units and more integrated operations following acquisitions. Although the assumptions we use in our discounted cash flow model are consistent with the assumptions we use to generate our 35Tables of Contentsinternal strategic plans and forecasts, significant judgment is required to estimate the amount and timing of future cash flows from each reporting unit and the relative risk of achieving those cash flows. When using the market approach, we make judgments about the comparability of publicly traded companies engaged in similar businesses. We base our judgments on factors such as size, growth rates, profitability, risk, and return on investment. We also make judgments when adjusting market multiples of revenue, operating income, and earnings for these companies to reflect their relative similarity to our own businesses. We had a total of $2.2 billion in goodwill on our balance sheet at July 31, 2012. See Note 5 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report for a summary of goodwill by reportable segment.We estimate the recoverability of acquired intangible assets and other long lived assets that have finite useful lives by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows that we expect the asset to generate. In order to estimate the fair value of those assets, we estimate the present value of future cash flows from those assets. The key assumptions that we use in our discounted cash flow model are the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the asset over an extended period of time and a rate of return that considers the relative risk of achieving the cash flows and the time value of money. Significant judgment is required to estimate the amount and timing of future cash flows and the relative risk of achieving those cash flows. We also make judgments about the remaining useful lives of acquired intangible assets and other long lived assets that have finite lives. We had a total of $213 million in net acquired intangible assets on our balance sheet at July 31, 2012.Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives are complex and often subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. For example, if our future operating results do not meet current forecasts or if we experience a sustained decline in our market capitalization that is determined to be indicative of a reduction in fair value of one or more of our reporting units, we may be required to record future impairment charges for goodwill and acquired intangible assets. Impairment charges could materially decrease our future net income and result in lower asset values on our balance sheet.During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 we performed our annual goodwill impairment test. Using the methodology described in Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets and Other Long Lived Assets, in Note 1 to the financial statements in Part 8 of this Report, we determined that the estimated fair values of all of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values and that they were not impaired. In addition, during this analysis we concluded that the estimated fair values of all of our reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values.During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 we performed our annual goodwill impairment test. As described in Note 1, in step one of that test we compared the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The estimated fair values of all of our reporting units except Intuit Health exceeded their carrying values and we concluded that they were not impaired. During this analysis we also concluded that the estimated fair values of all of our reporting units except Intuit Health substantially exceeded their carrying values. We completed step two of the test for our Intuit Health reporting unit and determined that the goodwill and acquired intangible assets associated with it were impaired. Consequently, we recorded a goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge of approximately $30 million in fiscal 2011. See "Fair Value Measurements Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non Recurring Basis," in Note 2 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report for more information.As discussed above, estimates of fair value for all of our reporting units can be affected by a variety of external and internal factors. The market for online patient to provider communication solutions is dynamic and competition is intense. Circumstances that negatively affected our estimate of the fair value of our Intuit Health reporting unit included unforeseen delays in developing high quality, timely offerings and marketing them effectively. If we experience further delays the fair value of our Intuit Health reporting unit could decline further and we may be required to record additional goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges in the future. Accounting for Share Based Compensation PlansAt July 31, 2012, there was $347 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non vested share based compensation arrangements granted under all equity compensation plans which we will amortize to expense in the future. Total unrecognized compensation cost will be adjusted for future changes in estimated forfeitures. We expect to recognize that cost over a weighted average vesting period of 2.4 years.We use a lattice binomial model and the assumptions described in Note 12 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report to estimate the fair value of stock options granted. We estimate the expected term of options granted based on implied exercise patterns using a binomial model. We estimate the volatility of our common stock at the date of grant based on the implied 36Tables of Contentsvolatility of publicly traded one year and two year options on our common stock. Our decision to use implied volatility is based upon the availability of actively traded options on our common stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. We base the risk free interest rate that we use in our option valuation model on the implied yield in effect at the time of option grant on constant maturity U.S. Treasury issues with equivalent remaining terms. In fiscal 2012 we began paying quarterly cash dividends and as a result we began using an annualized expected dividend yield in our option valuation model. We estimate forfeitures at the time of grant and revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We use historical data to estimate pre vesting option forfeitures and record share based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. We amortize the fair value of options on a straight line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which are generally the vesting periods. We may elect to use different assumptions under our option valuation model in the future, which could materially affect our net income or loss and net income or loss per share.Restricted stock units (RSUs) granted typically vest based on continued service. We value these time based RSUs at the date of grant using the intrinsic value method, adjusted for estimated forfeitures. We amortize the fair value of time based RSUs on a straight line basis adjusted for estimated forfeitures over the service period. Certain RSUs granted to senior management vest based on the achievement of pre established performance or market goals. We estimate the fair value of performance based RSUs at the date of grant using the intrinsic value method and the probability that the specified performance criteria will be met, adjusted for estimated forfeitures. Each quarter we update our assessment of the probability that the specified performance criteria will be achieved and adjust our estimate of the fair value of the performance based RSUs if necessary. We amortize the fair values of performance based RSUs over the requisite service period adjusted for estimated forfeitures for each separately vesting tranche of the award. We estimate the fair value of market based RSUs at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo valuation methodology and amortize those fair values over the requisite service period adjusted for estimated forfeitures for each separately vesting tranche of the award. The Monte Carlo methodology that we use to estimate the fair value of market based RSUs at the date of grant incorporates into the valuation the possibility that the market condition may not be satisfied. Provided that the requisite service is rendered, the total fair value of the market based RSUs at the date of grant must be recognized as compensation expense even if the market condition is not achieved. However, the number of shares that ultimately vest can vary significantly with the performance of the specified market criteria. Beginning in July 2012, all of the RSUs we grant have dividend rights that are subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying equity awards, so we do not adjust the intrinsic (market) value of our RSUs for dividends. See Note 12 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report for more information.Legal ContingenciesWe are subject to certain legal proceedings, as well as demands, claims and threatened litigation that arise in the normal course of our business. We review the status of each significant matter quarterly and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability and an expense for the estimated loss. If we determine that a loss is possible and the range of the loss can be reasonably determined, then we disclose the range of the possible loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination of whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Our accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to our pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates. Potential legal liabilities and the revision of estimates of potential legal liabilities could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations.Income Taxes Estimates of Deferred Taxes, Valuation Allowances and Uncertain Tax PositionsWe estimate our income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax rules and the potential for future adjustment of our uncertain tax positions by the United States Internal Revenue Service or other taxing jurisdictions. We estimate our current tax liability and assess temporary differences that result from differing treatments of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which we show on our balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be realized. To the extent we believe that realization is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in an accounting period, we record a corresponding tax expense in our statement of operations.At July 31, 2012, we had net deferred tax assets of $190 million which included a valuation allowance of $8 million for certain state net operating loss and state tax credit carryforwards. We recorded the valuation allowance to reflect uncertainties about whether we will be able to utilize some of our deferred tax assets before they expire. The valuation allowance is based on our estimates of taxable income for the jurisdictions in which we operate and the period over which our deferred tax assets will be 37Tables of Contentsrealizable. While we have considered future taxable income in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we could in the future be required to increase the valuation allowance to take into account additional deferred tax assets that we may be unable to realize. An increase in the valuation allowance would have an adverse impact, which could be material, on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which we record the increase.We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two step approach. The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions. We evaluate our uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. Our evaluations are based upon a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits and effective settlement of audit issues. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in our income tax expense in the period in which we make the change, which could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and operating results.Results of OperationsFinancial Overview(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)Fiscal2012 Fiscal2011 Fiscal2010 2012 2011% Change 2011 2010% Change Total net revenue$4,151 $3,772 $3,403 10% 11%Operating income from continuing operations1,177 1,037 904 14% 15%Net income from continuing operations767 652 564 18% 16%Diluted net income per share from continuing operations$2.52 $2.06 $1.74 22% 18%Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011Total net revenue increased $379 million or 10% in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011, driven by revenue growth in our Small Business Group and our Consumer Tax segment. In our Small Business Group, revenue was up 14%. Financial Management Solutions segment revenue increased 11% due to growth in QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions revenue and, to a lesser extent, to higher financial supplies revenue. Employee Management Solutions segment revenue increased 12% due to favorable offering mix, improved customer adoption of payroll direct deposit services, and price increases for desktop payroll customers. Payment Solutions segment revenue increased 20% due to fee structure changes, higher total card transaction volume, and growth in the merchant customer base. In our Tax businesses, Consumer Tax segment revenue increased 11% due to 6% growth in paid federal units and favorable offering mix. Accounting Professionals segment revenue increased 6% due to price increases in our professional tax business and higher QuickBooks Premier Accountant Edition and ProAdvisor Program revenue. Financial Services segment revenue increased 5%, or 9% when adjusted for the March 2012 sale of that segments corporate banking business, due to higher mobile banking and bill pay revenue. Other Businesses segment revenue increased 1% due to 7% growth in global revenue offset by lower Quicken revenue.Operating income from continuing operations increased 14% in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011 due to the increase in revenue described above partially offset by higher costs and operating expenses. Excluding the $30 million fiscal 2011 goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge, total operating expenses were $159 million higher in the fiscal 2012 period, including about $144 million for higher staffing expenses and about $16 million for higher share based compensation expenses. See Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses later in this Item 7 for more information.Net income from continuing operations increased 18% in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011 due to the increase in operating income, lower interest expense due to the repayment of debt during the year, and a slightly lower effective tax rate. Diluted net income per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2012 increased 22% to $2.52 as a result of the increase in net income and the decline in weighted average diluted shares compared with fiscal 2011.38Tables of ContentsFiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010Total net revenue increased $369 million or 11% in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010, driven by revenue growth in our Small Business Group and our Consumer Tax segment. In our Small Business Group, revenue was up 11%. Financial Management Solutions segment revenue increased 11% due to growth in QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions revenue and, to a lesser extent, to higher QuickBooks desktop revenue. Employee Management Solutions segment revenue increased 10% due to favorable offering mix, improved customer adoption of payroll direct deposit services, and price increases for desktop payroll customers. Payment Solutions segment revenue increased 11% due to growth in the merchant customer base and slightly higher transaction volume per merchant. In our Tax businesses, Consumer Tax segment revenue increased 13% due to 12% growth in total TurboTax federal units that was driven by 20% higher TurboTax Online federal units. Accounting Professionals segment revenue increased 7% due to price increases, increased pay per return usage, and new offerings. Financial Services segment revenue increased 4% due to growth in bill pay revenue partially offset by the effect of the sale of that segments lending business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Other Businesses segment revenue increased 15% due to strong performance in our Canadian and United Kingdom small business offerings and our fiscal 2010 acquisitions of Mint and Medfusion.Operating income from continuing operations increased 15% in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010. Total cost of revenue as a percent of revenue decreased slightly due to growth in TurboTax Online units and $31 million lower expense for amortization of acquired intangible assets. Total operating expenses were $220 million higher in the fiscal 2011 period, including about $64 million for higher staffing expenses, about $47 million for higher marketing program expenses in our Small Business Group and our Consumer Tax segment, about $70 million due to operating expenses for Mint and Medfusion, and about $20 million for higher share based compensation expenses. We also recorded a $30 million goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge for our Intuit Health reporting unit during fiscal 2011. See Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses later in this Item 7 for more information.Net income from continuing operations increased 16% in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010, in line with the increase in operating income for that period. Diluted net income per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2011 increased 18% to $2.06 as a result of the increase in net income and the decline in weighted average diluted shares compared with fiscal 2010. Business Segment ResultsThe information below is organized in accordance with our seven reportable business segments. Results for our Financial Management Solutions segment have been adjusted for all periods presented to exclude results for our Intuit Websites business, which we classified as discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. Fiscal 2010 results for our Other Businesses segment have been adjusted to exclude results for our Intuit Real Estate Solutions business, which we classified as discontinued operations in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. See Note 8 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report for more information. Segment operating income is segment net revenue less segment cost of revenue and operating expenses. Segment expenses do not include certain costs, such as corporate selling and marketing, product development, and general and administrative expenses and share based compensation expenses, which are not allocated to specific segments. These unallocated costs totaled $745 million in fiscal 2012, $684 million in fiscal 2011 and $610 million in fiscal 2010. Unallocated costs increased in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011 and in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010 due to increases in corporate selling and marketing expenses in support of the growth of our businesses, and to a lesser extent to increases in share based compensation expenses. Segment expenses also do not include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. See Note 15 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report for reconciliations of total segment operating income to consolidated operating income from continuing operations for each fiscal year presented.We calculate revenue growth rates and segment operating margin figures using dollars in thousands. Those results may vary slightly from figures calculated using the dollars in millions presented.39Tables of ContentsFinancial Management Solutions(Dollars in millions)Fiscal2012 Fiscal2011 Fiscal2010 2012 2011% Change 2011 2010% ChangeProduct revenue$418 $405 $382 Service and other revenue273 217 177 Total segment revenue$691 $622 $559 11% 11%% of total revenue17% 17% 16% Segment operating income$265 $243 $188 9% 30%% of related revenue38% 39% 34% Financial Management Solutions (FMS) product revenue is derived primarily from QuickBooks desktop software products, including QuickBooks Pro, QuickBooks Premier, and QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions, and from financial supplies such as paper checks, envelopes, invoices, business cards and business stationery. FMS service and other revenue is derived primarily from QuickBooks Online; QuickBooks technical support plans; Demandforce, which provides online marketing and customer communication solutions for small businesses; QuickBase; and royalties from small business online services.Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011FMS total net revenue increased $69 million or 11% in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. Total QuickBooks units, including desktop and online units, were flat in fiscal 2012. Overall FMS revenue growth was driven by strong unit growth in our higher priced QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions offerings. Higher revenue from financial supplies also contributed to the increase in FMS revenue, fueled by sales of our new Secure Plus checks with ChecklockTM fraud protection.FMS segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased slightly to 38% in fiscal 2012 from 39% in fiscal 2011. Segment operating income declined in fiscal 2012 due to about $38 million in higher staffing expenses associated with higher headcount, partially offset by about $11 million in lower expenses for advertising and other marketing programs.Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010FMS total net revenue increased $63 million or 11% in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010. Higher FMS revenue in fiscal 2011 was driven by strong growth in QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Enterprise Solutions revenue and, to a lesser extent, by growth in QuickBooks desktop revenue. Higher average selling prices for QuickBooks offerings more than offset flat total QuickBooks software units for fiscal 2011. FMS segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue increased to 39% in fiscal 2011 from 34% in fiscal 2010. Segment operating income improved in fiscal 2011 due to the increase in revenue described above, about $23 million in lower staffing expenses, and cost of product revenue efficiencies, partially offset by about $11 million in higher expenses for advertising and other marketing programs.Employee Management Solutions(Dollars in millions)Fiscal2012 Fiscal2011 Fiscal2010 2012 2011% Change 2011 2010% ChangeProduct revenue$280 $261 $249 Service and other revenue232 196 169 Total segment revenue$512 $457 $418 12% 10%% of total revenue12% 12% 12% Segment operating income$314 $271 $253 16% 7%% of related revenue61% 59% 60% 40Tables of ContentsEmployee Management Solutions (EMS) product revenue is derived primarily from QuickBooks Basic Payroll and QuickBooks Enhanced Payroll, which are products sold on a subscription basis that offer payroll tax tables, payroll reports, federal and state payroll tax forms, and electronic tax payment and filing to small businesses that prepare their own payrolls. EMS service and other revenue is derived primarily from QuickBooks Online Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll, Intuit Online Payroll, Intuit Full Service Payroll, fees for direct deposit services, and fees for other small business payroll and employee management services. Service and other revenue for this segment also includes interest earned on funds held for customers.Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011EMS total net revenue increased $55 million or 12% in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. Revenue was higher in fiscal 2012 due to customer growth in our Enhanced desktop payroll and online payroll solutions, improved customer adoption of payroll direct deposit services, and price increases for desktop payroll customers. At July 31, 2012 total payroll customers were up 2% while online payroll customers were up 19% compared with July 31, 2011.EMS segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue increased to 61% in fiscal 2012 from 59% in fiscal 2011. Segment operating income was higher in fiscal 2012 due to the increases in revenue described above, partially offset by higher staffing expenses associated with growing our online payroll business.Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010EMS total net revenue increased $39 million or 10% in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010. Revenue was higher in fiscal 2011 due to more customers choosing our Enhanced desktop payroll and online payroll solutions, improved customer adoption of payroll direct deposit services, and price increases for desktop payroll customers. At July 31, 2011 total payroll customers were up 2% while online payroll customers were up 13% compared with July 31, 2010.EMS segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased slightly to 59% in fiscal 2011 from 60% in fiscal 2010. Revenue growth as described above was partially offset by higher cost of revenue associated with offering mix.Payment Solutions(Dollars in millions)Fiscal2012 Fiscal2011 Fiscal2010 2012 2011% Change 2011 2010% ChangeProduct revenue$26 $31 $31 Service and other revenue391 317 282 Total segment revenue$417 $348 $313 20% 11%% of total revenue10% 9% 9% Segment operating income$107 $64 $67 66% (3%)% of related revenue26% 19% 21% Payment Solutions product revenue is derived primarily from QuickBooks Point of Sale solutions. Payment Solutions service revenue is derived primarily from merchant services for small businesses that include credit card, debit card, electronic benefits, and gift card processing services; check verification, check guarantee and electronic check conversion, including automated clearing house (ACH) and Check 21 capabilities; from Web based transaction processing services for online merchants; and from GoPayment mobile payment processing services. Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011Payment Solutions total net revenue increased $69 million or 20% in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011, driven by fee structure changes, higher total card transaction volume, and 13% growth in the merchant customer base. Payment Solutions segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue increased to 26% in fiscal 2012 from 19% in fiscal 2011 due to the increases in revenue described above and lower agent fees in cost of revenue, partially offset by higher data center hosting expenses.41Tables of ContentsFiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010Payment Solutions total net revenue increased $35 million or 11% in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010, driven by 11% growth in the merchant customer base. Transaction volume per merchant increased 1% in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010.Payment Solutions segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased to 19% in fiscal 2011 from 21% in fiscal 2010 due to higher interchange fees in cost of revenue and higher expenses for staffing and advertising and other marketing programs, which more than offset the increase in revenue described above.Consumer Tax(Dollars in millions)Fiscal2012 Fiscal2011 Fiscal2010 2012 2011% Change 2011 2010% ChangeProduct revenue$218 $261 $275 Service and other revenue1,223 1,037 871 Total segment revenue$1,441 $1,298 $1,146 11% 13%% of total revenue35% 34% 34% Segment operating income$886 $850 $746 4% 14%% of related revenue61% 65% 65% Consumer Tax product revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax federal and state consumer and small business desktop tax return preparation software. Consumer Tax service and other revenue is derived primarily from TurboTax Online tax return preparation services and electronic tax filing services.Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011Consumer Tax total net revenue increased $143 million or 11% in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011 due to 6% growth in paid federal units and favorable offering mix, including improved conversion from free to paid offerings. Revenue from our debit card program was higher in fiscal 2012 because customer card usage was higher and because we managed the program internally rather than offering it through a partner and sharing the revenue, as we did in fiscal 2011. Total online federal units grew 9% and represented approximately 77% of total federal TurboTax units for the 2011 consumer tax season, up from approximately 75% for the 2010 tax season.Consumer Tax segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased to 61% in fiscal 2012 from 65% in fiscal 2011. Segment cost of service revenue as a percentage of service revenue was higher in fiscal 2012 due to costs associated with our new Free Tax Advice and debit card programs and to higher data center hosting costs. Segment operating expenses also increased about $43 million for staffing expenses and about $15 million for advertising and other marketing programs compared with the fiscal 2011 period. Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010Consumer Tax total net revenue increased $152 million or 13% in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010. Total TurboTax federal units were up 12% in that period, driven by TurboTax Online federal unit growth of 20%. Online federal units represented approximately 75% of total federal TurboTax units for the 2010 consumer tax season, up from approximately 70% for the 2009 tax season.Consumer Tax segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue was flat at 65% in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010. The revenue increase described above was partially offset by higher costs and expenses, including about $29 million in higher expenses for advertising and other marketing programs.42Tables of ContentsAccounting Professionals(Dollars in millions)Fiscal2012 Fiscal2011 Fiscal2010 2012 2011% Change 2011 2010% ChangeProduct revenue$370 $340 $303 Service and other revenue53 59 70 Total segment revenue$423 $399 $373 6% 7%% of total revenue10% 11% 11% Segment operating income$249 $228 $210 9% 9%% of related revenue59% 57% 56% Accounting Professionals product revenue is derived primarily from ProSeries and Lacerte professional tax preparation software products and from QuickBooks Premier Accountant Edition and ProAdvisor Program subscriptions for professional accountants. Accounting Professionals service and other revenue is derived primarily from Intuit Tax Online tax return preparation services, electronic tax filing services, bank product transmission services, and training services.Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011Accounting Professionals total net revenue increased $24 million or 6% in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011 due to price increases in our professional tax business and higher QuickBooks Premier Accountant Edition and ProAdvisor Program revenue.Accounting Professionals segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue increased to 59% in fiscal 2012 from 57% in fiscal 2011 due to the increases in revenue described above and relatively stable operating expenses.Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010Accounting Professionals total net revenue increased $26 million or 7% in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010 due to price increases, increased pay per return usage, and new offerings such as Intuit Tax Online.Accounting Professionals segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue increased slightly to 57% in fiscal 2011 from 56% in fiscal 2010. Higher revenue for the fiscal 2011 period was partially offset by modestly higher staffing and other operating expenses.Financial Services(Dollars in millions)Fiscal2012 Fiscal2011 Fiscal2010 2012 2011% Change 2011 2010% ChangeProduct revenue$ $ $ Service and other revenue362 346 332 Total segment revenue$362 $346 $332 5% 4%% of total revenue9% 9% 10% Segment operating income$86 $83 $71 4% 17%% of related revenue24% 24% 21% Financial Services service and other revenue is derived primarily from online and mobile banking solutions that are hosted in our data centers and delivered as software as a service to financial institutions. Financial Services service and other revenue also includes fees for implementation services.Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011Financial Services total net revenue increased $16 million or 5% in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. Revenue for fiscal 2012 grew 9% when adjusted for the March 2012 sale of our corporate banking business. Revenue growth for fiscal 2012 was 43Tables of Contentsprimarily due to higher mobile banking revenue and, to a lesser extent, to higher bill pay revenue. Mobile banking revenue grew due to an increase in mobile banking end users and usage. Bill pay revenue grew due to a 12% increase in bill pay end users and higher transaction volumes during fiscal 2012.Financial Services segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue was flat at 24% in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011. Higher revenue as described above and slightly lower staffing expenses associated with lower headcount was partially offset by higher data center hosting expenses.Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010Financial Services total net revenue increased $14 million or 4% in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010. Revenue growth in fiscal 2011 was driven by higher bill pay revenue, partially offset by the effect of the sale of this segments lending business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Revenue from the lending business was less than $10 million for all of fiscal 2010. Bill pay revenue grew due to a 15% increase in bill pay end users and higher transaction volumes for fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010. Continuing downward price pressure that resulted in lower revenue per user partially offset the effect of growth in the bill pay end user customer base.Financial Services segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue increased to 24% in fiscal 2011 from 21% in fiscal 2010 due to higher revenue partially offset by higher staffing expenses.Other Businesses(Dollars in millions)Fiscal2012 Fiscal2011 Fiscal2010 2012 2011% Change 2011 2010% ChangeProduct revenue$167 $183 $172 Service and other revenue138 119 90 Total segment revenue$305 $302 $262 1% 15%% of total revenue7% 8% 8% Segment operating income$68 $67 $64 1% 4%% of related revenue22% 22% 25% Other Businesses consist primarily of our personal finance offerings, Quicken and Mint; Intuit Health; and our global businesses, primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom, and Singapore. Quicken product revenue is derived primarily from Quicken desktop software products. Quicken service and other revenue is derived primarily from fees from consumer online transactions and Quicken Loans trademark royalties. Mint service and other revenue consists primarily of online lead generation fees. Intuit Health service and other revenue consists primarily of online patient to provider communication services and fees for implementation services. In Canada, product revenue is derived primarily from localized versions of QuickBooks and Quicken as well as consumer desktop tax return preparation software and professional tax preparation products. Service and other revenue in Canada consists primarily of revenue from QuickBooks support plans, payroll services, and merchant payment processing services. In the United Kingdom, product revenue is derived primarily from localized versions of QuickBooks and QuickBooks Payroll. In Singapore and other international locations, service and other revenue is derived from QuickBooks Online.Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011Other Businesses total net revenue increased $3 million or 1% in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. Global revenue grew 7% in fiscal 2012, or 9% when adjusted for unfavorable currency impacts, while Quicken revenue was lower due to lower Quicken unit sales. Other Businesses segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue was flat at 22% in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011. Higher fiscal 2012 revenue as described above was partially offset by higher costs and expenses associated with continued investment in our healthcare business and global market opportunities.44Tables of ContentsFiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010Other Businesses total net revenue increased $40 million or 15% in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010 due to strong performance in our Canadian and United Kingdom small business offerings and our fiscal 2010 acquisitions of Mint and Medfusion, which became our Intuit Health business. In addition, favorable currency impacts in our Canadian and United Kingdom businesses accounted for approximately three percentage points of Other Businesses revenue growth in fiscal 2011. Other Businesses segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased to 22% in fiscal 2011 from 25% in fiscal 2010. Higher fiscal 2011 revenue as described above was offset by higher costs and expenses associated with our fiscal 2010 acquisitions of Mint and Medfusion and by our continued investment in emerging market opportunities.Cost of Revenue(Dollars in millions)Fiscal2012 % of RelatedRevenue Fiscal2011 % of RelatedRevenue Fiscal2010 % of RelatedRevenue Cost of product revenue$145 10% $143 10% $144 10%Cost of service and other revenue601 22% 495 22% 447 22%Amortization of acquired technology14 n/a 12 n/a 43 n/aTotal cost of revenue$760 18% $650 17% $634 19%Our cost of revenue has three components: (1) cost of product revenue, which includes the direct costs of manufacturing and shipping or electronically downloading our desktop software products; (2) cost of service and other revenue, which reflects direct costs associated with providing services, including data center costs related to delivering online services; and (3) amortization of acquired technology, which represents the cost of amortizing developed technologies that we have obtained through acquisitions over their useful lives.Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue was stable in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2012 we incurred higher costs associated with the new Free Tax Advice and debit card programs in our Consumer Tax segment. Partially offsetting the impact of these higher costs, agent fees in our Payment Solutions business were lower and online tax return preparation and electronic filing service revenue grew slightly faster than total service revenue. Online tax revenues have relatively lower costs of revenue compared with our other service offerings. Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue was stable in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2011 interchange fees in our Payment Solutions business were higher. Unit growth in TurboTax Online, which has relatively lower costs of revenue compared with our other service offering, partially offset the impact of these higher costs. Amortization of acquired technology decreased in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010 due to the completion of the amortization for certain Intuit Financial Services intangible assets that we acquired in fiscal 2007.45Tables of ContentsOperating Expenses(Dollars in millions)Fiscal2012 % ofTotalNet Revenue Fiscal2011 % ofTotalNet Revenue Fiscal2010 % ofTotalNet Revenue Selling and marketing$1,118 27% $1,040 28% $913 27%Research and development669 16% 620 16% 564 17%General and administrative388 9% 352 9% 346 10%Amortization of other purchased intangible assets39 1% 43 1% 42 1%Goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge % 30 1% %Total operating expenses$2,214 53% $2,085 55% $1,865 55%Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue decreased to 53% in fiscal 2012 from 55% in fiscal 2011. Revenue grew $379 million while total operating expenses excluding the $30 million fiscal 2011 impairment charge increased $159 million in fiscal 2012. Total operating expenses increased about $144 million for higher staffing expenses due to higher headcount and about $16 million for higher share based compensation expenses. Share based compensation expenses increased because the market price of our common stock was higher at the time of our broad based July 2011 grants of stock options and restricted stock units compared with the prior fiscal year. This increased the total fair value of these awards at the time of grant, which is being recognized as expense over the related service periods.Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010Total operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenue were flat at 55% in fiscal 2011 and in fiscal 2010. Revenue grew $369 million while total operating expenses increased $220 million in fiscal 2011. Total operating expenses increased about $64 million for staffing expenses, about $47 million for higher marketing program expenses in our Small Business Group and in our Consumer Tax segment, about $70 million for the operating expenses of acquired businesses, and about $20 million for higher share based compensation expenses. Share based compensation expenses increased because the market price of our common stock was higher at the time of our broad based July 2010 grants of stock options and restricted stock units compared with the prior fiscal year. This increased the total fair value of these awards at the time of grant, which is being recognized as expense over the related service periods. In fiscal 2011 we also recorded a $30 million goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge for our Intuit Health reporting unit. See "Fair Value Measurements Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non Recurring Basis," in Note 2 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report for more information.Non Operating Income and ExpensesInterest ExpenseIn March 2007 we issued five year and ten year senior unsecured notes totaling $1 billion. In March 2012 we repaid $500 million of those senior notes when they became due using cash from operations. Interest expense of $50 million in fiscal 2012, $60 million in fiscal 2011, and $61 million in fiscal 2010 consisted primarily of interest on these senior notes. See Note 10 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report for more information. 46Tables of ContentsInterest and Other Income(In millions)Fiscal2012 Fiscal2011 Fiscal2010Interest income$9 $10 $9Net gains on executive deferred compensation plan assets 6 4Gain on disposition of stock warrants10 Net foreign exchange (loss) gain (1) 1Other5 4 (1)Total interest and other income$24 $19 $13Interest and other income consists primarily of interest income and net gains and losses on executive deferred compensation plan assets. Lower average invested balances and lower interest rates resulted in slightly lower interest income in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011. Higher average invested balances and higher interest rates resulted in slightly higher interest income in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010. In accordance with authoritative guidance, we record gains and losses associated with executive deferred compensation plan assets in interest and other income and gains and losses associated with the related liabilities in operating expenses. The total amounts recorded in operating expenses generally offset the total amounts recorded in interest and other income. In connection with our acquisition of Digital Insight Corporation in fiscal 2007, we acquired stock warrants for a privately held company. During fiscal 2012 that company was acquired and we recorded a gain of approximately $10 million on the disposition of the warrants in interest and other income.In fiscal 2012 we sold our Financial Services segments corporate banking business for approximately $20 million and recorded a pretax gain of approximately $4 million in interest and other income.Income TaxesEffective Tax RateOur effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 was approximately 33% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35%. The tax benefit we received from the domestic production activities deduction was partially offset by state income taxes. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was approximately 35%. In that year we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $9 million related to the reinstatement of the federal research and experimentation credit through December 31, 2011 that was retroactive to January 1, 2010. That benefit was offset almost entirely by the impact of a non deductible charge related to the impairment of goodwill. Excluding those discrete items, our effective tax rate for that period was approximately 35% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35%. State income taxes were substantially offset by the tax benefit we received from the domestic production activities deduction and the federal research and experimentation credit. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 was approximately 34%. In that year we recorded discrete tax benefits of approximately $20 million that were related to foreign tax credit benefits associated with the distribution of profits from certain of our non U.S. subsidiaries and our plans to indefinitely reinvest substantially all remaining non U.S. earnings in support of our international expansion plans. Excluding those discrete tax benefits, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 was approximately 36% and did not differ significantly from the federal statutory rate of 35%. State income taxes were substantially offset by the tax benefit we received from the domestic production activities deduction and the federal research and experimentation credit.See Note 11 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report for more information about our effective tax rates.Net Deferred Tax AssetsAt July 31, 2012, we had net deferred tax assets of $190 million which included a valuation allowance of $8 million for certain state net operating loss and state tax credit carryforwards. We recorded the valuation allowance to reflect uncertainties about whether we will be able to utilize some of our deferred tax assets before they expire. While we believe our current valuation allowance is sufficient, we could in the future be required to increase the valuation allowance to take into account additional deferred tax assets that we may be unable to realize. We assess the need for an adjustment to the valuation allowance on a 47Tables of Contentsquarterly basis. The assessment is based on our estimates of future sources of taxable income for the jurisdictions in which we operate and the periods over which our deferred tax assets will be realizable. See Note 11 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report for more information.We provide U.S. federal income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in our international operations. To the extent that foreign earnings previously treated as indefinitely reinvested are repatriated, the related U.S. tax liability may, subject to certain limitations, be reduced by any foreign income taxes paid on these earnings. At July 31, 2012, the cumulative amount of earnings upon which U.S. income taxes had not been provided was approximately $43 million. The unrecognized deferred tax liability for these earnings was approximately $12 million. Discontinued Operations During fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2010 we sold or decided to sell the businesses described below. See Note 8 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report for a more complete description of these discontinued operations and the impact that they have had on our statements of operations for the fiscal periods presented.Intuit WebsitesIn July 2012 management approved a plan to sell our Intuit Websites business, which was a component of our Financial Management Solutions reporting segment. On August 10, 2012 we signed a definitive agreement to sell our Intuit Websites business, subject to closing conditions. We expect the sale to be completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and we do not expect to record a loss on the transaction. We determined that our Intuit Websites business became a long lived asset held for sale in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. A long lived asset classified as held for sale is measured at the lower of its carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Since the carrying value of Intuit Websites at July 31, 2012 was less than the estimated fair value less cost to sell, no adjustment to the carrying value of this long lived asset was necessary at that date. We also classified our Intuit Websites business as discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and have segregated its operating results in our statements of operations for all periods presented. Net revenue from Intuit Websites was $76 million for the twelve months ended July 31, 2012; $79 million for the twelve months ended July 31, 2011; and $52 million for the twelve months ended July 31, 2010. Net income from discontinued operations for the twelve months ended July 31, 2012 included a net loss from Intuit Websites discontinued operations of $11 million and $36 million in tax benefits from the anticipated sale of this business. We recorded net losses from Intuit Websites discontinued operations of $18 million for the twelve months ended July 31, 2011 and $25 million for the twelve months ended July 31, 2010. Intuit Real Estate SolutionsIn January 2010 we sold our Intuit Real Estate Solutions (IRES) business for $128 million in cash and recorded a net gain on disposal of $35 million. IRES was part of our Other Businesses segment. We have accounted for IRES as discontinued operations and segregated its operating results from continuing operations in our statements of operations for all periods prior to the sale. Net revenue from IRES was $33 million and net income excluding the net gain on disposal was less than $1 million for fiscal 2010. Liquidity and Capital ResourcesOverviewAt July 31, 2012, our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $744 million, a decrease of $677 million from July 31, 2011 due to the factors described in Statements of Cash Flows below. Our primary source of liquidity has been cash from operations, which entails the collection of accounts receivable for products and services. Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends. In March 2007 we issued five year and ten year senior unsecured notes totaling $1 billion. We repaid the five year notes when they became due in March 2012 using cash from operations. We also have a $500 million unsecured revolving line of credit 48Tables of Contentsfacility. To date we have not borrowed under the facility. The senior notes and the revolving line of credit are described later in this Item 7.The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at the dates indicated:(Dollars in millions)July 31, 2012 July 31, 2011 $Change %ChangeCash, cash equivalents and investments$744 $1,421 $(677) (48)%Long term investments75 63 12 19 %Current portion of long term debt 500 (500) N/ALong term debt499 499 %Working capital258 449 (191) (43)%Ratio of current assets to current liabilities1.2 : 1 1.2 : 1 Auction Rate SecuritiesAt July 31, 2012, we held a total of $41 million in municipal auction rate securities which we classified as long term investments on our balance sheet based on the maturities of the underlying securities. All of these securities are rated A or better by the major credit rating agencies. Due to a decrease in liquidity in the global credit markets, in February 2008 auctions began failing for the municipal auction rate securities we held and in accordance with authoritative guidance we began estimating their fair value based on a discounted cash flow model that we prepare. See Note 2 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report for more information. Based on our expected operating cash flows and our other sources of cash, we do not believe that the reduction in liquidity of the municipal auction rate securities we held at July 31, 2012 will have a material impact on our overall ability to meet our liquidity needs.Statements of Cash FlowsThe following table summarizes selected items from our statements of cash flows for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010. See the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report for complete statements of cash flows for those periods. Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal(Dollars in millions)2012 2011 2010Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities$1,246 $1,013 $998Investing activities(225) 497 (997)Financing activities(1,344) (1,006) (467)Effect of exchange rate changes on cash(6) 4 1Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(329) $508 $(465)Operating ActivitiesDuring fiscal 2012 we generated $1.2 billion in cash from our continuing operations. This included net income from continuing operations of $767 million, and adjustments for depreciation and amortization of $242 million and share based compensation expense of $169 million. Share based compensation increased in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011 because the market price of our common stock was higher at the time of our broad based July 2011 grants of stock options and restricted stock units compared with the prior fiscal year.During fiscal 2011 we generated $1.0 billion in cash from our continuing operations. This included net income from continuing operations of $652 million, and adjustments for depreciation and amortization of $241 million and share based compensation of $153 million. Amortization expense was lower in fiscal 2011 compared with 2010 due to the completion of the amortization for certain Intuit Financial Services intangible assets that we acquired in fiscal 2007. Share based compensation increased in fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010 because the market price of our common stock was higher at the time of our broad based July 2010 grants of stock options and restricted stock units compared with the prior fiscal year.During fiscal 2010 we generated $998 million in cash from our continuing operations. This included net income from continuing operations of $564 million, and adjustments for depreciation and amortization of $256 million and share based 49Tables of Contentscompensation of $135 million. Amortization expense was lower in fiscal 2010 compared with 2009 due to the completion of the amortization for certain Intuit Financial Services intangible assets that we acquired in fiscal 2007. Investing ActivitiesWe used $225 million in cash for investing activities during fiscal 2012. We received $349 million in cash from net sales of investments and we used $392 million in cash for acquisitions of businesses (primarily Demandforce) and $186 million in cash for capital expenditures.We generated $497 million in cash from investing activities during fiscal 2011. We received $697 million in cash from net sales of investments and we used $213 million in cash for capital expenditures.We used $997 million in cash for investing activities during fiscal 2010. We received a net $122 million in cash from the sale of our Intuit Real Estate Solutions business. We used $895 million in cash for net purchases of investments, $218 million in cash for acquisitions of businesses (primarily Mint and Medfusion), and $130 million in cash for capital expenditures.Financing ActivitiesWe used $1.3 billion in cash for financing activities during fiscal 2012. We used $500 million in cash to repay senior notes when they became due in March 2012. We also used $900 million for the repurchase of common stock under our stock repurchase programs and $178 million for the payment of cash dividends on our common stock, partially offset by the receipt of $164 million in cash from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans.We used $1.0 billion in cash for financing activities during fiscal 2011, including $1.4 billion for the repurchase of common stock under our stock repurchase programs partially offset by the receipt of $283 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans.We used $467 million in cash for financing activities during fiscal 2010, including $900 million for the repurchase of common stock under our stock repurchase programs partially offset by receipt of $416 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans.Stock Repurchase ProgramsOur Board of Directors has authorized a series of common stock repurchase programs. Shares of common stock repurchased under these programs become treasury shares. During fiscal 2012 we repurchased 16.9 million shares of our common stock under these programs for $900 million; during fiscal 2011 we repurchased 28.2 million shares for $1.4 billion; and during fiscal 2010 we repurchased 28.7 million shares for $900 million. At July 31, 2012, we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $1.7 billion for stock repurchases through August 15, 2014. We currently expect to continue repurchasing our common stock on a quarterly basis; however, future stock repurchases under the current program are at the discretion of management, and authorization of future stock repurchase programs is subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.Dividends on Common StockDuring fiscal 2012 we declared and paid cash dividends that totaled $0.60 per share of outstanding common stock or approximately $178 million. In August 2012 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.17 per share of outstanding common stock payable on October 18, 2012 to stockholders of records at the close of business on October 10, 2012. We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record dates and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors.Business CombinationsWe completed the business combinations described below during the three fiscal years ended July 31, 2012. We have included the results of operations for each of them in our consolidated results of operations from their respective dates of acquisition. Their results of operations for periods prior to the dates of acquisition were not material, individually or in the aggregate, when compared with our consolidated results of operations.On May 18, 2012 we acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of Demandforce, Inc. for total cash and other consideration of approximately $449 million. The $449 million included approximately $44 million for the fair value of assumed equity 50Tables of Contentsawards that is being charged to expense over service periods of up to four years. Demandforce is a provider of online marketing and customer communication solutions for small businesses and became part of our Financial Management Solutions segment. On May 21, 2010 we acquired privately held Medfusion, Inc. for total consideration of approximately $89 million. The total consideration included approximately $10 million for the fair value of cash retention bonuses that is being charged to expense over a three year service period. Medfusion is a provider of online patient to provider communication solutions and became part of our Other Businesses segment.On November 2, 2009 we acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of Mint Software Inc. for total consideration of approximately $170 million. The total consideration included approximately $24 million for cash retention bonuses and the fair value of assumed equity awards and Intuit common stock issued to the holder of Mint Series D Preferred Stock. The total of $24 million is being charged to expense over a three year service period. Mint is a provider of online personal finance services and became part of our Other Businesses segment.Commitments for Senior Unsecured NotesOn March 12, 2007 we issued $500 million of 5.40% senior unsecured notes due on March 15, 2012 (the 2012 Notes) and $500 million of 5.75% senior unsecured notes due on March 15, 2017 (the 2017 Notes). We repaid the 2012 Notes when they became due using cash from operations. The 2017 Notes are redeemable by Intuit at any time, subject to a make whole premium. Interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15. At July 31, 2012, our maximum commitment for interest payments under the 2017 Notes was $144 million.Unsecured Revolving Credit FacilityOn February 17, 2012 we entered into an agreement with certain institutional lenders for a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire on February 17, 2017. Advances under the credit facility will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either JP Morgans alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.5% or the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.9% to 1.5%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. The agreement includes customer affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of total debt to annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00 as of any date and a ratio of annual EBITDA to interest payable of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. We remained in compliance with these covenants at all times during the quarter ended July 31, 2012. We may use amounts borrowed under this credit facility for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions. To date we have not borrowed under the credit facility. We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility. We currently believe that the credit facility will be available to us should we choose to borrow under it.Liquidity and Capital Resource RequirementsOur cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $744 million at July 31, 2012. Of this amount, less than 20% was held by our foreign subsidiaries and subject to repatriation tax considerations. We intend to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and we currently do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. In the event that funds from foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the United States, if U.S. taxes have not been previously provided on the related earnings we would provide for and pay additional U.S. taxes at the time we change our intention with regard to the reinvestment of those earnings.We evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with and investing in other companies. We may decide to use cash and cash equivalents, investments, and our revolving line of credit facility to fund such activities in the future.Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months. We expect to return excess cash generated by operations to our stockholders through repurchases of our common stock and payment of cash dividends, after taking into account these operating and strategic cash needs.51Tables of ContentsOff Balance Sheet ArrangementsAt July 31, 2012, we did not have any significant off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S K.Contractual ObligationsThe following table summarizes our known contractual obligations to make future payments at July 31, 2012: Payments Due by Period Less than 1 3 3 5 More than (In millions)1 year years years 5 years TotalAmounts due under executive deferred compensation plan$56 $ $ $ $56Senior unsecured notes 500 500Interest and fees due on long term obligations29 59 59 147License fee payable (1)10 20 20 20 70Operating leases57 109 87 174 427Purchase obligations (2)89 130 78 297Total contractual obligations (3)$241 $318 $744 $194 $1,497 (1)In May 2009 we entered into an agreement to license certain technology for $20 million in cash and $100 million payable over ten fiscal years. See Note 10 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this report for more information.(2)Represents agreements to purchase products and services that are enforceable, legally binding and specify terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the payments. The largest of these commitments relates to future outsourced electronic payment fulfillment and bill management services for our Financial Services segment.(3)Other long term obligations on our balance sheet at July 31, 2012 included non current income tax liabilities of $41 million which related primarily to unrecognized tax benefits. We have not included this amount in the table above because we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate regarding the timing of settlements with taxing authorities, if any.Recent Accounting PronouncementsFor a description of recent accounting pronouncements and the potential impact of these pronouncements on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, see "Recent Accounting Pronouncements" in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report.52Tables of ContentsITEM 7AQUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKInvestment PortfolioThere has been significant deterioration and instability in the financial markets during the last four fiscal years. This period of extraordinary disruption and readjustment in the financial markets exposes us to additional investment risk. The value and liquidity of the securities in which we invest could deteriorate rapidly and the issuers of these securities could be subject to credit rating downgrades. In light of the current market conditions and these additional risks, we actively monitor market conditions and developments specific to the securities in which we invest. We believe that we take a conservative approach to investing our funds in that we invest only in highly rated securities and diversify our portfolio of investments. While we believe we take prudent measures to mitigate investment related risks, such risks cannot be fully eliminated because of market circumstances that are outside our control.Our investments consist of instruments that meet quality standards that are consistent with our investment policy. This policy specifies that, except for direct obligations of the United States government, securities issued by agencies of the United States government, and money market funds, we diversify our investments by limiting our holdings with any individual issuer. We do not hold derivative financial instruments in our portfolio of investments. See Note 3 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report for a summary of the amortized cost and fair value of our investments by type of issue.The following table presents our portfolio of cash equivalents and available for sale debt securities as of July 31, 2012 by stated maturity. The table is classified by the original maturity date listed on the security and includes cash equivalents, which consist primarily of money market funds. At July 31, 2012, the weighted average tax adjusted interest rate earned on our money market accounts was 0.06% and the weighted average tax adjusted interest rate earned on our investments was 1.22%. Years Ending July 31, (In millions)2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 andThereafter TotalCash equivalents$333 $ $ $ $ $ $333Investments218 135 132 3 38 526Long term investments 41 41Total$551 $135 $132 $ $3 $79 $900Interest Rate RiskOur cash equivalents and investments are subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates. Interest rate movements affect the interest income we earn on cash equivalents and investments and the value of those investments. Should the Federal Reserve Target Rate increase by 25 basis points from the level of July 31, 2012, the value of our investments would decrease by approximately $1 million. Should the Federal Reserve Target Rate increase by 100 basis points from the level of July 31, 2012, the value of our investments would decrease by approximately $6 million.We are also exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates as they affect our $500 million revolving credit facility. Advances under the credit facility accrue interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either JP Morgans alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.0% to 0.5% or the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin that ranges from 0.9% to 1.5%. Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings. Consequently, our interest expense would fluctuate with changes in the general level of these interest rates if we were to borrow any amounts under the credit facility. At July 31, 2012, no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility.On March 12, 2007 we issued $500 million of 5.75% senior unsecured notes due on March 15, 2017. We carry these senior notes at face value less unamortized discount on our balance sheets. Since these senior notes bear interest at fixed rates, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. However, the fair value of these notes fluctuates when interest rates change. See Note 2 and Note 10 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Report for more information.53Tables of ContentsImpact of Foreign Currency Rate ChangesThe functional currencies of our international operating subsidiaries are generally the local currencies. We translate the assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries at the exchange rates in effect on the balance sheet date. We translate their revenue, costs and expenses at the average rates of exchange in effect during the period. We include translation gains and losses in the stockholders equity section of our balance sheets. We include net gains and losses resulting from foreign exchange transactions in interest and other income in our statements of operations.Since we translate foreign currencies (primarily Canadian dollars, British pounds, Indian rupees and Singapore dollars) into U.S dollars for financial reporting purposes, currency fluctuations can have an impact on our financial results. The historical impact of currency fluctuations has generally been immaterial. We believe that our exposure to currency exchange fluctuation risk is not significant primarily because our global subsidiaries invoice customers and satisfy their financial obligations almost exclusively in their local currencies. Although the impact of currency fluctuations on our financial results has generally been immaterial in the past and we believe that for the reasons cited above currency fluctuations will not be significant in the future, there can be no guarantee that the impact of currency fluctuations will not be material in the future. As of July 31, 2012 we did not engage in foreign currency hedging activities.54Tables of Contents
 
