FILE:MAR/MAR-8K-20031107155113.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Changes in registrant's certifying accountant	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Changes in registrant's certifying accountant
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 4.  Changes in Registrant's Certifying Accountant
 
This filing is made to reflect a change in the independent auditor of Marriott International, Inc. Employees' Profit Sharing, Retirement and Savings Plan and Trust (the "Plan"). KPMG LLP ("KPMG") was previously the principal accountant for the Plan. On November 5, 2003, that firm's appointment as principal accountant was terminated, and Ernst & Young LLP ("Ernst & Young") was appointed as principal accountant. Ernst & Young currently serves as the independent auditor of the Company. The change was approved by the Audit Committee of the board of directors of Marriott International, Inc. (the "Company"). The audit reports of KPMG LLP on the Plan's financial statements for the two fiscal years ended December 31, 2002 and December 28, 2001 did not contain any adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, nor were such reports qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles.
 
In connection with the audits of the two fiscal years ended December 31, 2002 and December 28, 2001, and the period through the date of this report, there were no disagreements with KPMG on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedures, which disagreements if not resolved to KPMG's satisfaction, would have caused them to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement in connection with their report on the Plan's financial statements for such years.
 
We have provided KPMG with a copy of the foregoing disclosures. Attached as an exhibit hereto is a copy of KPMG's letter, dated November 7, 2003.
 
During each of the Plan's two most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2002 and December 28, 2001, and through the date of this report, the Plan did not consult Ernst & Young with respect to the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed, or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on the Plan's financial statements or any other matters or reportable events as set forth in Items 304(a)(2)(i) and (ii) of Regulation S-K.
 
Item 7.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
Exhibit 16  Letter from KPMG LLP, to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission dated November 7, 2003.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 7, 2003
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 16
 
 
November 7, 2003
 
Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We were previously principal accountants for the Marriott International, Inc. Employees' Profit Sharing, Retirement and Savings Plan and Trust (the Plan) and, under the date of June 2, 2003, we reported on the financial statements of the Marriott International, Inc. Employees' Profit Sharing, Retirement and Savings Plan and Trust as of and for the years ended December 31, 2002 and December 28, 2001. On November 5, 2003, our appointment as principal accountants was terminated. We have read the Marriott International, Inc. Employees' Profit Sharing, Retirement and Savings Plan and Trust's statements included under Item 4 of its Form 8-K dated November 5, 2003, and we agree with such statements, except that we are not in a position to agree or disagree with the Plan's statements that (i) Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as principal accountants, (ii) the change was approved by the Audit Committee of the board of directors of Marriott International, Inc. (the "Company"), or (iii) that during each of the Plan's two most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2002 and December 28, 2001, and through the date of this report, the Plan did not consult Ernst & Young LLP with respect to the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed, or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on the Plan's financial statements, or any other matters or reportable events as set forth in Items 304(a)(2)(i) and (ii) of Regulation S-K.
 
 
Very truly yours,
 
 
/s/ KPMG LLP


