FILE:MAR/MAR-8K-20040715084755.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
Financial Results for the Quarter Ended June 18, 2004
 
On July 15, 2004 Marriott International, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for the quarter ended June 18, 2004.
 
A copy of Marriott's press release is attached as Exhibit 99 and incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed with this report:
 
Exhibit 99 - Press release issued on July 15, 2004.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
Page 1
 
 
NEWS
 
Tom Marder
CONTACT:
                      (301) 380-2553
                      thomas.marder@marriott.com
 
MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL REPORTS EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS OF $0.67 FOR THE 2004 SECOND QUARTER, UP 29 PERCENT FROM 2003
 
- Worldwide, company-operated comparable revenue per available room (REVPAR) was up 15 percent (16 percent using actual exchange rates) for the second quarter ended June 18, 2004.
 
Washington, D.C.  July 15, 2004  Marriott International, Inc. (NYSE:MAR) today reported income from continuing operations of $160 million, up 27 percent, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.67, up 29 percent for the quarter ended June 18, 2004. Highlights for the quarter were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 99
Page 2
 
J.W. Marriott, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of Marriott International, said, "After three difficult years, strong demand returned to the markets most impacted by the downturn.
 
"We were particularly pleased to welcome back international visitors to the U.S. The number of international guests visiting our U.S. hotels increased 34 percent during the quarter, benefiting from favorable exchange rates, and was particularly evident in New York and San Francisco.
 
"Properties in Asia and the Middle East generated significantly higher sales and profits due to higher traveler demand from around the world. A year ago, in the 2003 second quarter, these regions were hurt by the war in Iraq and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS).
 
"Owner and franchisee interest in our brands remains robust and we converted over 3,000 rooms to our brands during the quarter. Since 2000, we have grown our room base by over one-third and we are well positioned to benefit from worldwide demand growth. Marriott's incentive fees during the quarter surged 29 percent reflecting an approximately 200 basis point improvement in the company's worldwide house profit margins. Our incentive fee performance reflects the considerable upside our hotels enjoy in this improving demand environment. Clearly, our prospects remain extremely bright," said Mr. Marriott.
 
In the second fiscal quarter (12 week period from March 27, 2004 to June 18, 2004), REVPAR for our 1,888 comparable systemwide North American properties rose 9.3 percent, driven by a 3.5 percent increase in average daily rate and a 3.9 percentage point increase in occupancy to nearly 74 percent. REVPAR at our 344 comparable systemwide North American full-service hotels (including and ) increased 9.9 percent, including 4.7 percentage points of improved occupancy to 73 percent. Demand for luxury lodging increased dramatically. Comparable systemwide North American REVPAR increased 16.4 percent with strength in both resort and downtown locations. REVPAR at comparable systemwide North American select-service and extended-stay brands (including and ) increased 8.5 percent, with 3.3 percentage points improvement in occupancy to 75 percent. The Courtyard brand, benefiting from an increase in business traveler demand as well as continued property reinventions and renovations, posted an
Marriott Hotels & Resorts, The Ritz-Carlton,
Renaissance Hotels & Resorts
Ritz-Carlton
Courtyard, Fairfield Inn, Residence Inn, TownePlace Suites,
SpringHill Suites
 
Exhibit 99
Page 3
 
11.2 percent REVPAR increase for systemwide comparable North American properties during the quarter. Sixteen percent of the Courtyard system in North America is non-comparable as a result of new hotels coming into the system in 2003 or 2004 and existing properties that were under renovation during those years.
 
International REVPAR at comparable systemwide properties increased 24.6 percent (33.1 percent using actual exchange rates) benefiting from strong demand in the 2004 quarter compared to the impact of SARS and the war in Iraq on the 2003 quarter. Constant dollar systemwide REVPAR increased nearly 55 percent in Asia and more than 15 percent in the Caribbean and Mexico.
 
The West India Quay Marriott in London's Canary Wharf opened during the quarter and included our 500,000
th
room. Overall during the quarter, we added 53 properties (7,745 rooms), including new timeshare resorts in Las Vegas and Hilton Head (both of which will be ready for occupancy in 2005) bringing the total number of hotels in the system to 2,791 (502,575 rooms). Fifteen properties (2,090 rooms) exited the system during the quarter. Owners continue to be attracted to the strength of our brands, converting 17 hotels (2,665 rooms) to Marriott's brands in the second quarter (excluding five hotels converted to the Ramada International brand).
 
Bulgari Hotels & Resorts, a joint venture company formed by Bulgari, the contemporary Italian Jeweler, and Marriott's Luxury Group, opened its first hotel, the 58-room Bulgari Hotel in Milan during the second quarter. The Bulgari Hotel in Milan is characterized by luxury, contemporary Italian design and impeccable service. The second Bulgari hotel has begun development in Bali and is expected to open mid-2005. The Marriott Luxury Group includes The Ritz-Carlton and Bulgari Hotels & Resorts.
 
Nearly 2,200 hotels in the Marriott system offered high-speed internet access as of the end of the second quarter, more than any other hotel system in the world, a significant competitive advantage for all of the company's brands. We also have wireless internet access in lobbies, meeting rooms, and public spaces in over 1,700 hotels throughout the U.S. We expect the roll out of high-speed internet access to our U.S. properties will be completed by the end of the year and that 2,000 hotels will have wireless internet access.
 
Exhibit 99
Page 4
 
MARRIOTT REVENUES for the second quarter totaled $2.4 billion, up 19 percent over the prior year. Base management fees increased 20 percent over the year ago quarter as a result of growth in managed units and a 16 percent increase in managed hotel REVPAR worldwide (using actual exchange rates).  Franchise fees increased 29 percent over the year ago quarter reflecting unit expansion, a nearly 11 percent increase in worldwide franchised comparable REVPAR (using actual exchange rates), as well as the impact of units added last year that continue to ramp up. Incentive fees also increased 29 percent. Roughly one-third of the improvement in our incentive fees was attributable to properties in North America. The remainder of the improvement came from properties outside the U.S., particularly in Asia and the Middle East.
 
Owned, leased, corporate housing and other revenues increased 26 percent, primarily driven by higher REVPAR and the addition of four new leased full-service properties in Berlin, London and Dublin.
 
Revenues from timeshare interval sales and services increased 20 percent. Similar to the first quarter, leisure demand was very strong. Including results at our three joint ventures, contract sales increased 39 percent.
 
MARRIOTT'S OPERATING INCOME increased 74 percent in the 2004 second quarter from $68 million to $118 million, as a result of the 24 percent increase in combined base, franchise and incentive fees, robust timeshare interval sales, and lower operating losses from our synthetic fuel joint venture, slightly offset by higher general and administrative expenses. Marriott's general and administrative expenses increased 19 percent, to $127 million, driven primarily by higher litigation expenses, lower foreign exchange gains and increased overhead costs related to the company's unit growth.
 
Exhibit 99
Page 5
 
LODGING SEGMENT RESULTS. Full-service lodging results were $113 million, up $26 million over prior year, as a result of higher fees, slightly offset by higher administrative expenses. Select-service and extended-stay lodging results were $57 million, up $13 million over prior year, driven by higher fees. Timeshare results rose 16 percent, to $51 million, including a $27 million note sale gain. Results also included a $7 million charge to reflect an increase in the discount rate used to value our timeshare interest-only strips, in light of the increasing interest rate environment. The note sale gain was $5 million lower than in the 2003 second quarter, primarily due to higher interest rates, partially offset by higher volume. Profits were also helped by improving margins, especially due to lower marketing and selling costs as a percentage of sales and a greater proportion of higher priced intervals sold.
 
INTEREST INCOME increased $12 million as a result of slightly higher average interest rates and interest earned on the note receivable in connection with the sale of our interest in the Two Flags joint venture, which took place early in the quarter. We expect to receive the proceeds from that approximately $200 million note in September of this year.
 
SYNTHETIC FUEL. During the quarter our synthetic fuel joint ventures generated net income of $31 million, including $38 million of tax benefits and credits, compared to $26 million of net income, including $68 million of tax benefits and credits in the year ago quarter. The increase in the net income from the synthetic fuel operations reflected higher production volume, partially offset by the impact of the change in ownership. In the second quarter of 2003, we were the sole owner of the synthetic fuel business. In the 2003 third quarter, we sold an approximately 50 percent interest and we currently consolidate the joint ventures.
 
Recently, we were informed by the previous owners of the synthetic fuel facilities that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) field auditors issued a notice of proposed adjustment challenging the placed-in-service dates of three of the four synthetic fuel facilities now owned by our synthetic fuel joint ventures. One of the conditions to qualify for tax credits under Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code is that the facility must have been placed-in-service before July 1, 1998. We strongly believe that all the facilities meet the placed-in-service requirement and we are confident this issue will be resolved in our favor. We are examining various procedural alternatives for pursuing this issue to resolution.
 
Exhibit 99
Page 6
 
At the end of the second quarter, total debt was $1.4 billion and cash balances totaled $164 million compared to $1.7 billion in debt and $203 million of cash at March 26, 2004. Ninety-three percent of our total debt carries fixed rates. Depreciation and amortization totaled $37 million during the quarter compared to $34 million in the 2003 second quarter.
 
In the second quarter we sold 10 land parcels for $18 million and we recognized a gain of $3 million on the sales.
 
We repurchased 1.2 million shares of our stock in the second quarter and 7.8 million year-to-date through June 18, 2004. Our remaining share authorization totals 24.7 million shares.
 
OUTLOOK
 
We expect continued strong group and transient demand for the remainder of 2004. Based on the strong results to date, we now estimate 2004 systemwide comparable North American REVPAR growth of 7 to 9 percent.
 
We expect house profit margins to improve modestly in 2004, particularly as room rates have begun to improve. We also expect to complete a timeshare mortgage note sale transaction in the fourth quarter, open approximately 25,000 to 30,000 new rooms during 2004, and earn roughly $0.40 to $0.42 of after-tax earnings per share this year from our synthetic fuel business. Under these assumptions, our lodging operating income is expected to increase to a range of $600 million to $615 million for full year 2004. We expect full year timeshare segment results to total $190 million to $200 million, including a timeshare mortgage note gain of roughly $25 million in the fourth quarter. Overall, we estimate our 2004 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to total $2.32 to $2.40.
 
For the third quarter, assuming North American systemwide comparable REVPAR growth of between 7 to 9 percent, we currently estimate lodging operating income of $115 million to $125 million, compared to $93 million in the 2003 third quarter. We expect that timeshare segment results will total roughly $30 million. No timeshare note sale is planned for the third quarter. We estimate third quarter EPS from continuing operations to range from $0.52 to $0.56, including $0.11 to $0.13 of earnings from synthetic fuel.
 
Exhibit 99
Page 7
 
In 2004, we continue to estimate total investment spending levels to be roughly $500 million.
 
Marriott International, Inc. (NYSE:MAR) will conduct its quarterly earnings review for the investment community and news media on Thursday, July 15, 2004 at 10 a.m. Eastern Time (ET). Individual investors and the news media are invited to listen to the review on the Internet at . A replay will be available on the Internet until August 15, 2004 at (click on "recent investor news"). A recording of the call will also be available by telephone from 1 p.m. ET, Thursday, July 15, 2004 until Thursday, July 22, 2004 at 8 p.m. ET. To access the recording, call 719-457-0820. The reservation number for the recording is 333460.
http://www.marriott.com/investor
http://www.marriott.com/investor
 
Note: This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities laws, including REVPAR, profit margin and earning trends; statements concerning the number of lodging properties we expect to add in future years; our expected investment spending; our anticipated results from synthetic fuel operations and the anticipated favorable resolution of the IRS's placed-in-service challenge; and similar statements concerning anticipated future events and expectations that are not historical facts. We caution you that these statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the pace and extent of the current recovery in both the economy and the lodging industry; supply and demand changes for hotel rooms, vacation ownership intervals, and corporate housing; competitive conditions in the lodging industry; relationships with clients and property owners; the availability of capital to finance hotel growth and refurbishment; and the uncertainties inherent in the IRS audit and appeals process; any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements herein. These statements are made as of the date of this press release, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Exhibit 99
Page 8
 
MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. (NYSE:MAR) is a leading lodging company with nearly 2,800 lodging properties in the United States and 69 other countries and territories. Marriott International operates and franchises hotels under the , and brand names; develops and operates vacation ownership resorts under the and brands; operates ; provides furnished corporate housing through itsdivision; and operates conference centers. Marriott is also in the synthetic fuel business The company is headquartered in Washington, D.C., and has approximately 128,000 employees. In fiscal year 2003, Marriott International reported sales from continuing operations of $9 billion. For more information or reservations, please visit our web site at .
Marriott, JW Marriott, The Ritz-Carlton, Renaissance, Residence Inn, Courtyard, TownePlace Suites, Fairfield Inn, SpringHill Suites
Ramada International
Bulgari
Marriott Vacation Club International, Horizons, The Ritz-Carlton Club
Marriott Grand Residence Club
Marriott Executive Apartments
Marriott
ExecuStay
.
www.marriott.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We consider income from continuing operations excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations, earnings per share excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations, and the effective tax rate excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations, to be meaningful performance indicators because they reflect that portion of our income from continuing operations, earnings per share, and the effective tax rate that relates to our lodging business and enables investors to compare the results of our operations and effective tax rate to that of other lodging companies. However, income from continuing operations excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations, earnings per share excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations, and the effective tax rate excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations are all non-GAAP financial measures, and are not alternatives to income from continuing operations, earnings per share, effective tax rate or any other operating measure prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
 
The reconciliation of income from continuing operations, earnings per share, and the effective income tax rate as reported to income from continuing operations excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations, earnings per share excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations, and the effective income tax rate excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We consider income from continuing operations excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations, earnings per share excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations, and the effective tax rate excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations, to be meaningful performance indicators because they reflect that portion of our income from continuing operations, earnings per share, and the effective tax rate that relates to our lodging business and enables investors to compare the results of our operations and effective tax rate to that of other lodging companies. However, income from continuing operations excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations, earnings per share excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations, and the effective tax rate excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations are all non-GAAP financial measures, and are not alternatives to income from continuing operations, earnings per share, effective tax rate or any other operating measure prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
 
The reconciliation of income from continuing operations, earnings per share, and the effective income tax rate as reported to income from continuing operations excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations, earnings per share excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations, and the effective income tax rate excluding the impact of the synthetic fuel operations is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
We consider lodging operating income to be a meaningful indicator of our performance because it measures our growth in profitability as a lodging company and enables investors to compare the operating income related to our lodging segments to the operating income of other lodging companies. However, lodging operating income is a non-GAAP financial measure and is not an alternative to operating income or any other operating measure prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
 
The reconciliation of operating income to lodging operating income is as follows:
 
 
 


