FILE:MAR/MAR-8K-20040708092539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS
 
Marriott International, Inc. ("Marriott") issued a press release dated July 7, 2004 discussing an Internal Revenue Service challenge to the placed-in-service date of three of the four facilities in Marriott's synthetic fuel ventures.
 
A copy of Marriott's press release is attached as Exhibit 99 and incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed with this report:
 
Exhibit 99 - Press release issued on July 7, 2004.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
MARRIOTT STATEMENT REGARDING SYNTHETIC FUEL VENTURE
 
- Marriott International (NYSE:MAR) announced today that it has been informed by PacifiCorp Financial Services that Internal Revenue Service (IRS) field auditors have issued a notice of proposed adjustment challenging the placed-in-service date of three of the four synthetic fuel facilities owned by Marriott's synthetic fuel joint ventures. One of the conditions to qualify for tax credits under Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code is that the production facility must have been placed-in-service before July 1, 1998. Marriott purchased four synthetic fuel facilities from PacifiCorp Financial Services in October 2001 and completed the sale of approximately 50% of Marriott's ownership interest in June 2003.
WASHINGTON, DC - July 7, 2004
 
Marriott strongly believes that all the facilities meet the placed-in-service requirement. IRS field audit teams have previously raised questions about the synthetic fuel industry, including the issue of chemical change, but those questions were ultimately resolved in the industry's favor. We are confident this issue will also be resolved in our favor. We are examining various procedural alternatives for pursuing this issue to resolution.
 
Our synthetic fuel production plans have not changed. As such, Marriott continues to estimate after-tax earnings per share from its synthetic fuel business will total $0.38 to $0.42 for 2004. Since acquiring the plants, Marriott has recognized approximately $300 million of tax credits from all four plants through January 2, 2004.
 
Note: This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities laws, including our anticipated results from synthetic fuel operations; and similar
 
statements concerning anticipated future events and expectations that are not historical facts. We caution you that these statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the ultimate resolution of the IRS audit described above; any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements herein. These statements are made as of the date of this press release, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. (NYSE:MAR) is a leading worldwide hospitality company with over 2,700 lodging properties in the United States and 68 other countries and territories. Marriott International operates and franchises hotels under the and brand names; develops and operates vacation ownership resorts under the and brands; operates ; provides furnished corporate housing through itsdivision; and operates conference centers. Marriott is also in the synthetic fuel business The company is headquartered in Washington, D.C., and has approximately 128,000 employees and was ranked as the lodging industry's most admired company and one of the best places to work for by FORTUNE. In fiscal year 2003, Marriott International reported sales from continuing operations of $9 billion. For more information or reservations,
Marriott, JW Marriott, The Ritz-Carlton, Renaissance, Residence Inn, Courtyard, TownePlace Suites, Fairfield Inn, SpringHill Suites
Ramada International
Marriott Vacation Club International, Horizons, The Ritz-Carlton Club
Marriott Grand Residence Club
Marriott Executive Apartments
Marriott
ExecuStay
.
please visit our web site at .
marriott.com
 


