FILE:MAR/MAR-8K-20060209081714.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Financial Results for the Quarter and Fiscal Year Ended December 30, 2005
 
Marriott International, Inc. ("Marriott") today issued a press release reporting financial results for the quarter and fiscal year ended December 30, 2005.
 
A copy of Marriott's press release is attached as Exhibit 99 and incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Exhibit 99 - Press release issued on February 9, 2006.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL REPORTS RECORD 2005 FOURTH QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS OF $1.07; UP 35 PERCENT FROM THE 2004 FOURTH QUARTER
 
Full Year Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
WASHINGTON, D.C.  February 9, 2006  Marriott International, Inc. (NYSE:MAR) today reported record diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (EPS) of $1.07 in the fourth quarter of 2005, up 35 percent from the fourth quarter of 2004. Income from continuing operations, net of taxes, for the quarter was $237 million, a 26 percent increase over the prior year. Excluding the impact of our synthetic fuel business, income from continuing operations increased 32 percent to $204 million and diluted earnings per share increased 42 percent to $0.92 during the quarter.
 
 
J.W. Marriott, Jr., Marriott International chairman and chief executive officer, said, "Strong worldwide economic expansion and impressive lodging industry strength continued in the fourth quarter, and Marriott International capitalized on those trends through increasingly favorable financial performance.
 
"Across all travel segments, group, business transient and leisure, revenues remained strong in the quarter. Meeting attendance was solid and group spending was robust. Catering revenues rose 13 percent during the quarter with particularly impressive demand from financial services and pharmaceutical businesses. Business guests continued to fill hotels. Manhattan REVPAR rose 16 percent largely due to a greater mix of corporate rated business and higher room rates. Technology rebounded, driving demand higher in San Francisco and the suburbs of Boston. Business travel to and especially within Asia continues to thrive. In China alone, Marriott currently operates 32 hotels, with 14 properties under construction, and additional projects in the development pipeline.
 
"The resort business in the Caribbean exceeded expectations, as leisure travel continues to boom. Our Ritz-Carlton brand just opened a spectacular resort on Grand Cayman Island, and we anticipate significant additional expansion opportunities in the region. In total, 16 Ritz-Carlton hotels, many in resort destinations, are currently in the development pipeline, including 11 which are under construction.
 
"Marriott and its owners invested record amounts in product improvements and renovations throughout our system in 2005, including new bedding for over 600,000 beds. Guest satisfaction scores and REVPAR improved dramatically in 2005, reflecting renovations over the past three years, including 129 Courtyard hotels and 95 Residence Inns. An additional 43 Courtyards and 24 Residence Inns are scheduled for renovation in 2006.
 
"We expect to deliver another year of outstanding results in 2006. U.S. industry supply growth is expected to remain modest while lodging demand continues to strengthen. Given the strength of the industry and the outstanding quality of our products, we believe our North American company-operated REVPAR should increase 8 to 10 percent in 2006."
 
 
In the 2005 fourth quarter (16 week period from September 10, 2005 to December 30, 2005), REVPAR for the company's comparable worldwide systemwide properties increased 11.2 percent (11.0 percent using constant dollars). Systemwide North American REVPAR increased by 11.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005, driven by a 7.8 percent increase in average daily rate and a 2 percentage point increase in occupancy to 70.7 percent. REVPAR at the company's comparable systemwide North American full-service hotels (includingand) increased by 11.3 percent during the quarter. North American systemwide REVPAR for the company's comparable select-service and extended-stay brands (including , , and) increased 10.6 percent.
Marriott Hotels & Resorts, The Ritz-Carlton,
Renaissance Hotels & Resorts
Courtyard
Fairfield Inn
Residence Inn, TownePlace Suites,
SpringHill Suites
 
In the fourth quarter, international systemwide comparable REVPAR increased 11.9 percent (11.0 percent using constant dollars) including a 9.9 percent increase in average daily rates and a 1.3 percentage point improvement in occupancy to nearly 75 percent. REVPAR showed dramatic improvements in Hong Kong, China and Dubai.
 
The company added 38 hotels and timeshare resorts (5,980 rooms) to our worldwide lodging portfolio during the fourth quarter of 2005, while four properties (679 rooms) exited the system. At year-end, the company's lodging group encompassed 2,741 hotels and timeshare resorts (499,165 rooms).
 
MARRIOTT REVENUES totaled $3.6 billion in the 2005 fourth quarter, a 16 percent increase from the same period in 2004. Base and franchise fees also rose 16 percent. Incentive management fees soared 33 percent as a result of robust growth in REVPAR and higher property level house profit margins. In the prior year's quarter, Marriott recognized $7 million in incentive fees that were calculated based on prior period results, but not earned and due until the fourth quarter of 2004. Comparable company-operated house profit margins increased 210 basis points during the quarter, both worldwide and in North America, despite dramatically higher energy costs. Property level EBITDA margins for comparable North American company-operated properties, calculated as if wholly owned, increased 250 basis points.
 
 
Timeshare interval sales and services revenue increased 18 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005. Timeshare contract sales, including sales made by joint venture projects, increased 6 percent, reflecting strong sales at our timeshare resorts in St. Thomas, Las Vegas and Paris, as well as strong whole-ownership sales at our Grand Residences by Marriott in Panama City, Florida. Contract sales were lower at Ritz-Carlton Club resorts in St. Thomas and Bachelor Gulch, Colorado. These resorts continue to experience strong demand but offer limited inventory as they near sell-out. Seven new resorts offering timeshare, fractional or whole ownership products are expected to begin sales in 2006 including the Ritz-Carlton projects in San Francisco, Miami Beach, Kapalua and Kauai.
 
LODGING OPERATING INCOME for the fourth quarter of 2005 was $250 million, up from $146 million a year ago. Marriott's 2005 fourth quarter lodging operating income benefited from strong fee growth as well as increased profits from owned and leased properties the company acquired in 2005. The company's results included a $7 million charge in connection with the write-off of previously capitalized costs for one timeshare project. General and administrative expenses were also lower. The 2004 quarter included a $13 million charge associated with the Courtyard joint venture transaction.
 
SYNTHETIC FUEL operations contributed approximately $0.15 per share of after-tax earnings during the 2005 fourth quarter compared to $0.14 in the year ago quarter. Excluding the impact of our synthetic fuel operations, our tax rate for continuing operations was approximately 35 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005.
 
GAINS AND OTHER INCOME (excluding $12 million from synthetic fuel) totaled $72 million and included a $40 million gain from a fourth quarter timeshare mortgage note sale, a $17 million gain on the Courtyard land sale, $5 million of gains from the sale of other real estate, $6 million of preferred returns from joint venture investments and a $4 million gain on the sale of an equity interest in an international joint venture. Prior year gains of $69 million included a $36 million gain from a timeshare mortgage note sale, a $5 million gain associated with the repayment of a note, and $28 million of gains primarily related to the sale of real estate, our interest in an international joint venture and the disposition of the Ramada International business.
 
 
INTEREST EXPENSE increased $7 million primarily due to higher commercial paper balances, partially offset by changes in the company's senior debt in 2005.
 
INTEREST INCOME totaled $14 million during the quarter, down from $48 million in the year ago quarter, primarily driven by loan repayments in 2005 and in the fourth quarter of 2004.
 
EQUITY IN (LOSSES)/EARNINGS  OTHER reflects Marriott's share of income or losses from joint venture investments. During the fourth quarter 2005, the company earned a $15 million profit associated with the disposition of a hotel by a joint venture in which Marriott had an equity interest. Results also reflected improved profitability of joint venture hotels benefiting from higher property REVPAR. The company also benefited from the recapitalization of the Courtyard joint venture.
 
FULL YEAR 2005 RESULTS
 
For the full year 2005 EPS totaled $2.89, up 17 percent from 2004. Income from continuing operations, net of taxes, for the year was $668 million, a 12 percent increase over 2004 levels. Synthetic fuel operations contributed approximately $125 million ($0.54 per share) in 2005 versus $107 million ($0.44 per share) in the prior year. The guidance provided by the company on October 6, 2005, for fiscal year 2005 excluded the $94 million pre-tax ($0.27 per share) one-time charge associated with the CTF transaction, recorded in the 2005 second quarter, and the $17 million ($0.05 per share) pre-tax charge related to an impairment in a Delta Airlines leveraged aircraft lease, recorded in the 2005 third quarter. Excluding these items, 2005 EPS was $3.21, up 30 percent, and income from continuing operations, net of taxes, was $741 million, up 25 percent over 2004 levels.
 
LODGING OPERATING INCOME increased 22 percent from 2004 levels to $699 million, largely as a result of higher base and franchise fees, growth in incentive fees, favorable timeshare profits and strong results from our owned and leased properties, partially offset by higher general and administrative expenses. Marriott's general and administrative expenses increased 24 percent to $753 million, driven by $94 million of pre-tax charges associated with the CTF transaction, primarily due to the non-cash write-off of management agreements, $30 million for bedding incentives, a $12 million payment made in the second quarter to retain a management agreement and a $6 million charge recorded in the third quarter associated with the settlement of a litigation matter from 1998, partially offset by an overall decline in litigation costs.
 
 
GAINS AND OTHER INCOME of $149 million in 2005 (excluding $32 million for synthetic fuel) included $69 million from timeshare mortgage note sales, $34 million from the sale of real estate, $25 million of gains from the sale or refinancing of real estate loans, $14 million of preferred returns from several joint venture investments and $7 million of gains on the sale of the company's interests in two joint ventures. Prior year gains of $136 million (excluding $28 million for synthetic fuel) included $64 million from the sale of timeshare mortgage notes, $50 million related to the sale of real estate and our interest in an international joint venture, a $17 million gain on the disposition of Marriott's interest in the Two Flags joint venture and the Ramada International business, and a $5 million gain associated with the repayment of principal and interest of a mezzanine loan to a joint venture.
 
INTEREST INCOME declined $67 million in 2005 to $79 million as the company reduced its notes receivable balance in 2005, excluding timeshare notes, by $609 million. The provision for loan losses reflected a $17 million non-cash pre-tax charge associated with the impairment of a Delta Airline leveraged lease receivable and an $11 million reserve for a loan at one property.
 
BALANCE SHEET
 
With record earnings, loan repayments and asset sales, Marriott generated significant cash flow in 2005. At the end of 2005, total debt was $1,737 million and cash balances totaled $203 million compared to $1,325 million in debt and $770 million of cash at the end of 2004. The company also repurchased a record 26 million shares of common stock in 2005 at a cost of $1.65 billion. The remaining share repurchase authorization, as of year-end 2005, totaled approximately 17.9 million shares.
 
OUTLOOK
 
The company expects North American company-operated REVPAR to increase 8 to 10 percent in 2006, roughly 80 percent of which should be rate driven. Assuming a 150 to 200 percentage point improvement in house profit margins, and approximately 25,000 new room openings (gross), the company expects total fee revenue of $1,165 million to $1,185 million, an increase of 13 to 15 percent.
 
 
Given the recent rise in oil prices and the uncertainty surrounding the availability of 2006 tax credits, the company suspended production at its four synthetic fuel facilities in mid-January 2006. The company has not yet determined the duration of the temporary shut down and as such is unable to provide guidance for 2006 earnings from the synthetic fuel business. The current net book value of the four facilities is $19 million.
 
New accounting rules for the timeshare industry take effect in 2006. The new rules change the timing of the recognition of timeshare revenues, selling and product costs, reacquired timeshare inventory and maintenance fees for unsold timeshare inventory. At the same time, the attractive cash flow characteristics of the timeshare business will remain unchanged. The company's estimate of the one-time non-cash impact to 2006 first quarter earnings will be an after-tax charge of approximately $110 million to $115 million ($0.50 to $0.53 per share). Since this charge is a one-time item, and will be presented in the financial statements below income from continuing operations, it is not included in the 2006 earnings guidance.
 
Timeshare interval sales and services revenues, net of expenses are expected to decline approximately 2 percent in 2006, reflecting soft contract sales in 2005 resulting from limited inventory. Contract sales (including joint venture sales) are expected to increase over 40 percent in 2006, as the company continues to experience strong sales from highly successful projects in Aruba, Newport Coast, Las Vegas and Hawaii and begins sales in 2006 at seven new resorts offering timeshare, fractional or whole ownership products.
 
General, administrative and other expenses are expected to decline approximately 12 to 14 percent in 2006 to $650 million to $660 million from $753 million in 2005. The comparison reflects the impact of the $94 million charge associated with the CTF transaction in the second quarter of 2005 and $30 million in bedding incentives also recorded in 2005. This 2006 guidance includes the $44 million pre-tax impact of the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Statement (FAS) No. 123(R), requiring the expensing of all share-based compensation (including stock options).
 
 
Given these above items, the company estimates that lodging operating income will total $910 million to $940 million in 2006, an increase of 30 to 34 percent over 2005 (20 to 24 percent excluding the $94 million charge associated with the CTF transaction in 2005 and the expected $44 million impact of FAS No. 123(R) in 2006).
 
The company expects lodging gains and other income to total approximately $130 million in 2006 (including approximately $70 million in timeshare mortgage note sale gains), compared to $149 million in 2005.
 
Net interest expense is expected to total $75 million, an increase of $20 million, primarily driven by loan repayments in 2005 resulting in reduced interest income.
 
The company estimates North American company-operated REVPAR growth of 8 to 10 percent in the first quarter of 2006, with house profit margin growth of 150 to 200 basis points.
 
 
Under the above assumptions, the company currently estimates the following results for the first quarter and full year 2006:
 
 
 
 
The company expects investment spending in 2006 to total approximately $900 million, including $50 million for maintenance capital spending, $500 million for capital expenditures, acquisitions and timeshare development, $30 million in new mezzanine financing and mortgage loans for hotels developed by owners and franchisees, and approximately $320 million in equity and other investments (including timeshare equity investments).
 
Marriott International, Inc. (NYSE:MAR) will conduct its quarterly earnings review for the investment community and news media on Thursday, February 9, 2006 at 10 a.m. Eastern Time (ET). The conference call will be webcast simultaneously via Marriott's investor relations website at , click the "Recent Investor News" tab and click on the quarterly conference call link. A replay will be available on the Internet until March 9, 2006.
http://www.marriott.com/investor
 
 
The telephone dial-in number for the conference call is 913-981-4910. A telephone replay of the conference call will also be available by telephone from 1 p.m. ET, Thursday, February 9, 2006 until Thursday, February 16, 2006 at 8 p.m. ET. To access the recording, call 719-457-0820. The reservation number for the recording is 8301413.
 
Note: This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities laws, including REVPAR, profit margin and earning trends; statements concerning the number of lodging properties we expect to add in future years; our expected investment spending; and similar statements concerning anticipated future events and expectations that are not historical facts. We caution you that these statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the duration and full extent of the current growth environment in both the economy and the lodging industry; supply and demand changes for hotel rooms, vacation ownership intervals, and corporate housing; competitive conditions in the lodging industry; relationships with clients and property owners; the availability of capital to finance hotel growth and refurbishment; any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements herein. These statements are made as of the date of this press release, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. (NYSE:MAR) is a leading lodging company with over 2,700 lodging properties in the United States and 66 other countries and territories. Marriott International operates and franchises hotels under the and brand names; develops and operates vacation ownership resorts under the and brands; operates ; provides furnished corporate housing through itsdivision; and operates conference centers. Marriott is also in the synthetic fuel business The company is headquartered in Washington, D.C., and has approximately 143,000 employees. In fiscal year 2005, Marriott International reported sales from continuing operations of $11.6 billion. For more information or reservations, please visit our web site at .
Marriott, JW Marriott, The Ritz-Carlton, Renaissance, Residence Inn, Courtyard, TownePlace Suites, Fairfield Inn, SpringHill Suites
Bulgari
Marriott Vacation Club International, Horizons, The Ritz-Carlton Club
Grand Residences by Marriott
Marriott Executive Apartments
Marriott ExecuStay
.
www.marriott.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We consider lodging operating income to be a meaningful indicator of our performance because it measures our growth in profitability as a lodging company and enables investors to compare the operating income related to our lodging segments to the operating income of other lodging companies. However, lodging operating income is a non-GAAP financial measure and is not an alternative to operating income or any other operating measure prescribed by United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
The reconciliation of operating income to lodging operating income is as follows:
 
 
 
 
The table below details the impact on our continuing operations of our Synthetic Fuel segment for the 2005 and 2004 fourth quarters. Our management evaluates the figures presented in the "Excluding Synthetic Fuel" columns because management expects the Synthetic Fuel segment will no longer have a material impact on our business after the Internal Revenue Code Section 29 synthetic fuel tax credits expire at the end of 2007 or earlier if the company elects to make permanent its present synthetic fuel production shut down and because the presentation reflects the results of our core lodging operations. Management also believes that these presentations facilitate the comparison of our results with the results of other lodging companies.
 
However, the figures presented in the "Excluding Synthetic Fuel" columns are all non-GAAP financial measures, may be calculated and/or presented differently than presentations of other companies and are not alternatives to operating income, income from continuing operations, net income, earnings per share or any other operating measure prescribed by United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
 
 
The table below details the impact on our continuing operations of our Synthetic Fuel segment for the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004. Our management evaluates the figures presented in the "Excluding Synthetic Fuel" columns because management expects the Synthetic Fuel segment will no longer have a material impact on our business after the Internal Revenue Code Section 29 synthetic fuel tax credits expire at the end of 2007 or earlier if the company elects to make permanent its present synthetic fuel production shut down and because the presentation reflects the results of our core lodging operations. Management also believes that these presentations facilitate the comparison of our results with the results of other lodging companies.
 
However, the figures presented in the "Excluding Synthetic Fuel" columns are all non-GAAP financial measures, may be calculated and/or presented differently than presentations of other companies and are not alternatives to operating income, income from continuing operations, net income, earnings per share or any other operating measure prescribed by United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
 
 
The table below details the impact on our continuing operations of the $94 million charge (2005 second quarter) associated with the agreements we entered into with CTF Holdings Ltd. (the "CTF transaction") and the $17 million leveraged lease impairment charge (2005 third quarter). The $94 million charge recorded in connection with the CTF transaction was primarily non-cash and primarily due to the write-off of deferred contract acquisition costs associated with the termination of management agreements. In addition, we incurred a material charge of $17 million associated with the impairment of our one investment in an aircraft leveraged lease. We do not consider the leveraged lease investment to be related to our core business.
 
Our management evaluates the figures in the "Excluding CTF and Leveraged Lease Charges" column because they allow for year-over-year comparisons relative to our on-going operations before material charges and believes that this presentation facilitates the comparison of our results with the results of other lodging companies. Management evaluates income-related financial measures that exclude the leveraged lease impairment charge in order to better assess the period-over-period performance of our core operating businesses. Management evaluates income-related financial measures that exclude the CTF transaction charge in order to better assess the Company's period-over-period performance of our lodging operations in light of the fact that the CTF transaction charge does not reflect the fact that new management agreements, entered into as part of the CTF transaction, substantially replaced the old management agreements the termination of which make up the bulk of the CTF transaction charge.
 
However, the figures presented in the "Excluding CTF and Leveraged Lease Charges" column are all non-GAAP financial measures, may be calculated and/or presented differently than presentations of other companies, and are not alternatives to operating income, income from continuing operations, net income, earnings per share or any other operating measure prescribed by United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
 
 
We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment ("FAS No. 123R") at the beginning of our 2006 fiscal year. We estimate the adoption of FAS No. 123R, using the modified prospective method, will result in incremental pre-tax expense in the 2006 first quarter of $9 million and total incremental pre-tax expense for the entire 2006 fiscal year of $44 million.
 
Our management evaluates diluted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding the impact of the Synthetic Fuel segment and the adoption of FAS 123R because it allows for year-over-year comparisons relative to our on-going lodging operations before material charges and because management expects the Synthetic Fuel segment will no longer have a material impact on our business after the Internal Revenue Code Section 29 synthetic fuel tax credits expire at the end of 2007 or earlier if the company elects to make permanent its present synthetic fuel production shut down. Management believes that this presentation facilitates the comparison of our results with the results of other lodging companies.
 
However, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding the impact of the Synthetic Fuel segment and the adoption of FAS 123R is a non-GAAP financial measure, may be calculated and/or presented differently than presentations of other companies and are not alternatives to operating income, income from continuing operations, net income, earnings per share or any other operating measure prescribed by United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
 
 
Our management considers earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) to be an indicator of operating performance because it can be used to measure our ability to service debt, fund capital expenditures, and expand our business.
 
In the 2005 second quarter we recorded a $94 million charge associated with the agreements we entered into with CTF Holdings Ltd. (the "CTF transaction"). The $94 million charge was primarily non-cash and due to the write-off of deferred contract acquisition costs associated with the termination of management agreements. In addition, we incurred a material charge of $17 million in the 2005 third quarter associated with the impairment of our one investment in an aircraft leveraged lease. We do not consider the leveraged lease investment to be related to our core business. Management expects the Synthetic Fuel segment will no longer have a material impact on our business after the Internal Revenue Code Section 29 synthetic fuel tax credits expire at the end of 2007 or earlier if the company elects to make permanent its present synthetic fuel production shut down.
 
Management evaluates Adjusted EBITDA which excludes the aircraft leveraged lease impairment charge, discontinued operations and the impact of our Synthetic Fuel segment in order to better assess the period-over-period performance of our on-going core operating businesses. Management evaluates Adjusted EBITDA which also excludes the CTF transaction charge in order to better assess the Company's period-over-period performance of our lodging operations in light of the fact that the CTF transaction charge does not reflect the fact that new management agreements, entered into as part of the CTF transaction, substantially replaced the old management agreements the termination of which makes up the bulk of the CTF transaction charge. Management also believes that these presentations facilitate the comparison of our results with the results of other lodging companies.
 
However, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures, may be calculated and/or presented differently than presentations of other companies, and are not alternatives to operating income, income from continuing operations, net income, cash flow from operations, or any other operating measure prescribed by United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
 


