FILE:MAR/MAR-8K-20080910134908.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
(b)        James M. Sullivan, the Executive Vice President of Lodging Development of Marriott International, Inc. (the "Company"), announced to the Company on September 4, 2008 his intention to retire effective April 1, 2009.
 
 
Item 7.01.    Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On September 10, 2008, the Company announced (i) Mr. Sullivan's intention to retire effective April 1, 2009, and (ii) that Anthony G. Capuano, who is currently the Company's Executive Vice President Development, The Americas (which includes the Caribbean and Latin America), will assume the position of Executive Vice President of Lodging Development upon Mr. Sullivan's retirement. Mr. Capuano will transition to his new responsibilities over the next seven months.
        
A copy of the Company's press release announcing the matters described under Item 5.02 above and this Item 7.01 is attached hereto and furnished as Exhibit 99.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
        Exhibit 99 -   Press release issued on September 10, 2008.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
Marriott International, Inc.
Corporate Headquarters
NEWS
JIM SULLIVAN, LODGING DEVELOPMENT CHIEF AT MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, TO RETIRE
Leaves Legacy of Expansive Global Growth
Tony Capuano to Become Development Head
BETHESDA, MD, September 10, 2008 - Marriott International, Inc. (NYSE: MAR) today announced that James M. "Jim" Sullivan, executive vice president lodging development, will retire April 1, 2009. Capping an illustrious twenty-five year career at the company, Sullivan has been pivotal in growing Marriott's brands and expanding its hotel portfolio from 539 to more than 3,000 today.
Sullivan spearheaded the addition to Marriott's growth platform of key brands such as The Ritz-Carlton, Residence Inn and Renaissance, and the launch of Bvlgari, Edition and Nickelodeon by Marriott. Central to Sullivan's legacy and the company's ongoing success was his intense focus on expansion outside of North America. Establishing Marriott development offices in Asia and Europe during the early 1990s, Sullivan led Marriott's unparalleled industry growth from 14 hotels outside the U.S. in 1990 to nearly 400 hotels today. Emblematic of the company's global march, Marriott opened its 3,000 hotel in 2007 with the JW Marriott Beijing.
th
Sullivan will be succeeded in his role by Tony Capuano, a 13-year Marriott veteran who will become executive vice president global development, reporting to Arne Sorenson, executive vice president, chief financial officer and president continental European lodging.
J.W. "Bill" Marriott, chairman and chief executive officer of Marriott International, said, "It is certainly with very mixed emotions that I announce Jim's retirement. He has been instrumental to our incredible growth and success, and it's hard to imagine him not here. But I understand his desire to slow down his famous breakneck pace and spend more time with his children and grandchildren. He deserves, and has, my tremendous gratitude."
"Thanks to the hard work of our development team under Jim's leadership, our worldwide pipeline of hotels under construction, awaiting conversion or approved for development exceeds 130,000 rooms. And with about 60 percent of our full service pipeline located outside the United States, we're poised for great new growth.
Sullivan joined Marriott in 1980 as vice president of finance and planning for Marriott's restaurant and theme park operations. After leaving the company to assume the presidency of a privately owned chain of fast food restaurants, Sullivan returned, and in 1990, was appointed head of development. Prior to joining Marriott, Sullivan held a series of positions with well-known brand companies.
Capuano is currently responsible for full service hotel development across North America, the Caribbean and Latin America, where the company recently announced an unprecedented growth trajectory, doubling its plans for hotels in Mexico over the next three years. He will transition to his new responsibilities over the next seven months.
Mr. Marriott said, "I am delighted that Tony Capuano will assume global development duties for our company. Tony is intent on growth, is an astute and skilled developer, and he has the great respect of both his team and our development partners."
For the better part of a decade, Capuano headed Marriott's full service hotel development in the Western United States and Canada. He began his career with the company in 1995 in the market planning and feasibility area.
Earlier, Capuano began his professional career in Laventhol & Horwath's Leisure Time Advisory Group in Boston and then joined Kenneth Leventhal & Company's hospitality consulting group in Los Angeles.
Visit Marriott International, Inc. (NYSE:MAR
)
for company information.
 


