FILE:MAR/MAR-8K-20080710073047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Results for the Quarter Ended June 13, 2008
Marriott International, Inc. ("Marriott") today issued a press release reporting financial results for the quarter ended June13, 2008.
A copy of Marriott's press release is attached as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

NEWS
 
MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL REPORTS SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
Second Quarter Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
BETHESDA, MD  July 10, 2008  Marriott International, Inc. (NYSE:MAR) today reported second quarter 2008 adjusted income from continuing operations of $189 million, a decline of 17 percent, and adjusted diluted earnings per share ("EPS") from continuing operations of $0.51, down 11 percent. The company's EPS guidance for the second quarter, disclosed on April 17, 2008, totaled $0.48 to $0.52.
Adjusted results exclude the $36 million ($0.10 per diluted share) impact of non-cash items included in the tax provision in the 2008 quarter. These included a $24 million tax reserve related to the treatment of funds received from foreign subsidiaries that is in ongoing discussions with the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") with the remaining $12 million expense due primarily to prior years' tax adjustments, including a settlement with the IRS that resulted in a lower than
 
expected refund of taxes associated with a 1995 leasing transaction. Adjusted results for the 2007 second quarter exclude the $54 million after-tax charge ($0.14 per diluted share) impact of the Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") settlement agreement reached with the IRS and the Department of Labor in the 2007 second quarter.
Reported income from continuing operations was $153 million in the second quarter of 2008 compared to $175 million in the year-ago quarter. Reported diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.41 in the second quarter of 2008 compared to $0.43 in the second quarter of 2007.
J.W. Marriott, Jr., Marriott International's chairman and chief executive officer, said, "Our second quarter saw higher year-over-year REVPAR for our global lodging business, despite weaker economic conditions in the U.S. International demand for our products remains high. Our hotels outside the U.S. had strong revenue growth in the quarter. Europeans continue to visit U.S. gateway cities and customers from Asia and Latin America show growing demand for Marriott's timeshare products. But while our hotels outside the U.S. continue to benefit from solid global demand, business conditions have deteriorated in the U.S. While there is much uncertainty, we expect weak economic growth and soft U.S. lodging demand to persist into 2009.
"During the second quarter, we achieved flat house profit margins worldwide, a notable accomplishment given cost increases in many sectors of the economy. Our hotels remain focused on controlling costs and improving efficiency while delivering outstanding service to our guests.
"We added over 9,000 rooms to our lodging portfolio during the quarter, including over 2,500 rooms outside North America, and we retain 130,000 rooms in our worldwide development pipeline. We are on-track to achieve room growth targets for 2008."
In the 2008 second quarter (12-week period from March 22, 2008 to June 13, 2008), REVPAR for the company's comparable worldwide company-operated properties increased 5.6 percent (3.2 percent using constant dollars) and average daily rates increased 6.3 percent (3.9 percent using constant dollars). REVPAR at comparable worldwide systemwide properties rose 4.2 percent (2.6 percent using constant dollars) over the year-ago quarter.
 
Second quarter international company-operated comparable REVPAR increased 15.5 percent (7.2 percent using constant dollars), including a 15.4 percent increase in average daily rate (7.1 percent using constant dollars). REVPAR growth was particularly strong in the Middle East, Central and Southeast Asia, and Latin America.
In North America, comparable company-operated REVPAR rose 1.4 percent in the second quarter of 2008. REVPAR at the company's comparable company-operated North American full-service and luxury hotels (including , and ) increased 2.3 percent driven by a 2.5 percent increase in average daily rates. Manhattan, Houston, Los Angeles and Orlando were particularly strong markets.
Marriott Hotels & Resorts
The Ritz-Carlton
Renaissance Hotels & Resorts
In the second quarter, Marriott added 61 new properties (9,482 rooms) to its worldwide lodging portfolio. Eleven hotels (23 percent of new rooms) were converted from competitor brands and 11 properties (2,392 rooms) exited the system during the quarter. At quarter-end, the company's lodging group encompassed 3,069 properties and timeshare resorts for a total of nearly 545,000 rooms.
MARRIOTT REVENUES totaled $3.2 billion in the 2008 second quarter, a 2 percent increase from the same period in 2007. Base management and franchise fees rose 9 percent to $271 million as a result of REVPAR improvement primarily driven by rate increases and unit expansion. Incentive management fees declined $13 million to $103 million. The 2007 second quarter included $15 million of incentive fees that were calculated based on prior periods' results, but not earned and due until that quarter. Prior year incentive fees also included $3 million associated with business interruption insurance proceeds for two New Orleans properties.
Worldwide company-operated comparable house profit margins were flat. House profit margins for comparable company-operated properties outside North America grew 120 basis points and house profit per available room ("HP-PAR") increased over 9 percent. North American comparable company-operated house profit margins declined 70 basis points from the year-ago quarter and HP-PAR increased nearly 1 percent.
 
In the second quarter, owned, leased, corporate housing and other revenue, net of direct expenses, decreased $9 million, to $46 million, reflecting the conversion of owned hotels to managed properties and the impact of properties under renovation.
Timeshare sales and services revenue decreased 14 percent to $388 million and, net of expenses, declined 37 percent to $77 million in the 2008 second quarter. Results reflected lower fractional and residential volumes, reduced year-over-year reportability at several timeshare projects and lower financing profit in the 2008 quarter, partially offset by favorable product costs. In the second quarter of 2008, investors purchased $246 million of timeshare mortgage notes. The company recognized a gain of $29 million in the 2008 quarter as compared to a $45 million gain in the prior year quarter.
Timeshare segment results, which includes timeshare sales and services revenue, net of direct expenses, as well as base management fees, equity earnings, minority interest and general, administrative and other expenses associated with the timeshare business, totaled $70 million as compared to $107 million in the prior year.
Second quarter timeshare contract sales declined 7 percent to $334 million largely due to lower sales of fractional and residential products, partially offset by stronger timeshare sales to customers in Asia and Latin America.
GENERAL, ADMINISTRATIVE and OTHER expenses for the 2008 second quarter totaled $184 million, compared to $207 million in the year-ago quarter, and included higher costs associated with development efforts. The 2007 second quarter included $35 million of expenses associated with the ESOP tax settlement.
GAINS AND OTHER INCOME totaled $9 million and included $5 million of gains on the sale of real estate, a $1 million gain from the sale of the company's interest in a joint venture and $3 million of preferred returns from joint venture investments. The prior year's second quarter gains totaled $12 million and included $5 million of gains on the sale of real estate and $7 million of preferred returns from joint venture investments and other gains and income.
 
INTEREST EXPENSE decreased $14 million to $38 million. The 2007 second quarter included $13 million of interest expense related to the ESOP settlement.
EQUITY IN EARNINGS totaled a loss of $3 million in the second quarter and included an unfavorable $9 million impact associated with the revaluation of assets by two international joint ventures.
INCOME TAXES
During the quarter, the company recorded a $24 million non-cash tax reserve related to the treatment of certain funds received from foreign subsidiaries. Marriott remains in ongoing discussions with the IRS regarding this matter and believes the company's position should prevail.
In addition, the company recorded a non-cash charge of $12 million, largely due to a settlement reached in May 2008 with the IRS regarding a 1995 leasing transaction. The company received $26 million in cash as part of the settlement.
BALANCE SHEET
At the end of second quarter 2008, total debt was $3,048 million and cash balances totaled $125 million, compared to $2,965 million in debt and $332 million of cash at year-end 2007. The company repurchased 2.4 million shares of common stock during the second quarter at a cost of $75 million. Weighted average fully diluted shares outstanding totaled 370.0 million at the end of the 2008 second quarter compared to 403.8 million at the end of the year-ago quarter. The remaining share repurchase authorization, as of June 13, 2008, totaled 24.6 million shares.
OUTLOOK
The company expects worldwide systemwide comparable REVPAR to be flat to up 2 percent (in constant dollars) in 2008 reflecting a continued challenging demand environment in North America. Compared to the prior year, North American company-operated comparable REVPAR is expected to range from growth of 1 percent to a decline of 1 percent for the full year, with a roughly 100 basis point decline in North American house profit margins. The company expects roughly 30,000 new room openings worldwide in 2008.
For the full year 2008, the company expects timeshare sales and services revenue, net of direct expenses, to total $265 million to $285 million reflecting approximately $50 million of timeshare note sale gains. Timeshare Segment results in 2008 are expected to be $230 million to $250 million with contract sales flat to up 5 percent.
 
Assuming $500 million to $600 million of share repurchases during the year, the company believes that net interest expense will approximate $135 million for the full year.
For the third quarter of 2008, the company expects worldwide systemwide comparable REVPAR to be flat to up 2 percent (in constant dollars) and North American company-operated comparable REVPAR to be flat to down 2 percent. Comparable North American house profit margins are expected to decline 50 to 150 basis points in the third quarter.
In the third quarter, the company expects timeshare sales and services revenue, net of direct expenses, to total $60 million to $70 million. The company expects Timeshare Segment results of $50 million to $60 million in the quarter. Third quarter contract sales are expected to decline 5 percent to 10 percent compared to the year-ago quarter.
 
 
The company expects investment spending in 2008 to total approximately $1.0 billion to $1.1 billion, including $75 million for maintenance capital spending, $400 million to $415 million for capital expenditures and acquisitions, $200 million to $250 million for timeshare development,
 
$40 million to $50 million in new mezzanine financing and mortgage loans for hotels developed by owners and franchisees, and $270 million to $290 million in equity and other investments (including timeshare equity investments).
Marriott International, Inc. (NYSE:MAR) will conduct its quarterly earnings review for the investment community and news media on Thursday, July 10, 2008 at 10 a.m. Eastern Time (ET). The conference call will be webcast simultaneously via Marriott's investor relations website at , click the "Recent Investor News" tab and click on the quarterly conference call link. A replay will be available at that same website until July 10, 2009. The webcast will also be available as a podcast from the same site.
http://www.marriott.com/investor
The telephone dial-in number for the conference call is 719-325-4765. A telephone replay of the conference call will be available from 1 p.m. ET, Thursday, July 10, 2008 until 8 p.m. ET, Thursday, July 17, 2008. To access the replay, call 719-457-0820. The reservation number for the recording is 7544017.
Note: This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of federal securities laws, including REVPAR, profit margin and earnings trends; statements concerning the number of lodging properties we expect to add in the future; our expected share repurchases and investment spending; and similar statements concerning anticipated future events and expectations that are not historical facts. We caution you that these statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the present U.S. economic slowdown and the uncertain environment in the lodging industry; supply and demand changes for hotel rooms, vacation ownership, condominiums, and corporate housing, including the impact of recent increases in transportation fuel costs on demand for our products; competitive conditions in the lodging industry; relationships with clients and property owners; the availability of capital to finance hotel growth and refurbishment; and other risk factors identified in our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q; any of which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements herein. These statements are made as of the date of this press release, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, Inc. (NYSE:MAR) is a leading lodging company with over 3,000 lodging properties in the United States and 66 other countries and territories. Marriott International operates and franchises hotels under the and brand names; develops and operates vacation ownership resorts under the , , and brands; operates ; provides furnished corporate housing through its division; and
Marriott, JW Marriott, The Ritz-Carlton, Renaissance, Residence Inn, Courtyard, TownePlace Suites, Fairfield Inn, SpringHill Suites
Bulgari
Marriott Vacation Club
Horizons by Marriott Vacation Club
The Ritz-Carlton Club
Grand Residences by Marriott
Marriott Executive Apartments
Marriott
ExecuStay
 
operates conference centers. The company is headquartered in Bethesda, Md., and had approximately 151,000 employees at 2007 year-end. It is ranked as the lodging industry's most admired company and one of the best companies to work for by FORTUNE, and has been recognized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) with the 2007 Sustained Excellence Award and Partner of the Year since 2004. In fiscal year 2007, Marriott International reported sales from continuing operations of $13 billion. For more information or reservations, please visit our web site at .
www.marriott.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In our press release and schedules, and related conference call, we report certain financial measures that are not prescribed or authorized by United States generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). We discuss management's reasons for reporting these non-GAAP measures below, and the tables on the following pages reconcile the most directly comparable GAAP measures to the non-GAAP measures (identified by a double asterisk on the following pages) that we refer to in our press release and related conference call. Although management evaluates and presents these non-GAAP measures for the reasons described below, please be aware that these non-GAAP measures are not alternatives to revenue, operating income, income from continuing operations, net income, earnings per share or any other comparable operating measure prescribed by GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may be calculated and/or presented differently than measures with the same or similar names that are reported by other companies, and as a result, the non-GAAP measures we report may not be comparable to those reported by others.
. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) reflects earnings excluding the impact of interest expense, tax expense, depreciation and amortization. Our management considers EBITDA to be an indicator of operating performance because it can be used to measure our ability to service debt, fund capital expenditures, and expand our business. EBITDA is used by analysts, lenders, investors and others, as well as by us, to evaluate companies because it excludes certain items that can vary widely across different industries or among companies within the same industry. For example, interest expense can be dependent on a company's capital structure, debt levels and credit ratings. Accordingly, the impact of interest expense on earnings can vary significantly among companies. Additionally, the tax positions of companies can vary because of their differing abilities to take advantage of tax benefits and because of the tax policies of the jurisdictions in which they operate. As a result, effective tax rates and tax expense can vary considerably among companies. EBITDA also excludes depreciation and amortization because companies utilize productive assets of different ages and use different methods of both acquiring and depreciating productive assets. These differences can result in considerable variability in the relative costs of productive assets and the depreciation and amortization expense among companies.
Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization
. Management evaluates non-GAAP measures that exclude the charge associated with the 2007 settlement of issues raised during the IRS' and Department of Labor's examination of the employee stock ownership plan ("ESOP") feature of our Employees' Profit Sharing, Retirement and Savings Plan and Trust, including adjusted earnings per share and adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, because these measures allow for period-over-period comparisons relative to our on-going operations before material charges. Additionally, these non-GAAP measures facilitate management's comparison of our results relative to on-going operations before material charges with that of other lodging companies. The settlement resulted in an after-tax charge of $54 million in the second quarter 2007 reflecting $35 million of excise taxes (impacting General, Administrative, and Other Expenses), $13 million of interest expense on those excise taxes and $6 million of income tax expense primarily reflecting additional interest.
ESOP Settlement Charge
. Our management also evaluates adjusted EBITDA which excludes the synthetic fuel business for 2007, as well as the $35 million charge in 2007 for excise taxes associated with the ESOP settlement. The synthetic fuel operations, discontinued in 2007, are not related to our core business, which is lodging. Accordingly, our management evaluates non-GAAP measures which exclude the impact of the synthetic fuel business because those measures allow for period-over-period comparisons of our on-going core lodging operations. In addition, these non-GAAP measures facilitate management's comparison of our results with the results of other lodging companies. Our management excludes the excise taxes associated with the ESOP settlement for the reasons noted above in the "ESOP Settlement Charge" caption.
Adjusted EBITDA
. Management evaluates non-GAAP measures including adjusted earnings per share and adjusted taxes that exclude: 1) income tax expense in the 2008 second quarter totaling $12 million primarily due to prior years' tax adjustments, including a settlement with the IRS that resulted in a lower than expected refund of taxes associated with a 1995 leasing transaction; and 2) income tax expense in the 2008 second quarter totaling $24 million related to the tax treatment of funds received from foreign subsidiaries that is in on-going discussions with the IRS. We evaluate these non-GAAP measures because these measures allow for period-over-period comparisons relative to our on-going operations before material charges. Additionally, these non-GAAP measures facilitate management's comparison of our results relative to on-going operations before material charges with the results of other lodging companies.
Prior Years' Tax Adjustments and Foreign Subsidiaries Related Income Tax Charges
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


