FILE:MAR/MAR-8K-20090109143824.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On January 7, 2009, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Marriott International, Inc. (the "Company"), upon recommendation of the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, increased the size of the Board to eleven (11) members and appointed W. Mitt Romney to the Board. The Board also established a new Finance Committee of the Board and appointed Governor (Gov.) Romney as Chairman of that committee. There is no arrangement or understanding between Gov. Romney and any other persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director. Since the beginning of the Company's last fiscal year through the present, there have been no transactions with the Company, and there are currently no proposed transactions with the Company in which the amount involved exceeds $120,000 and in which Gov. Romney had or will have a direct or indirect material interest within the meaning of Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Gov. Romney will receive compensation as a non-employee director in accordance with the Company's director compensation practices described in its most recent Proxy Statement, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 26, 2008.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
        Exhibit 99 - Press release issued on January 7, 2009.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
MITT ROMNEY JOINS MARRIOTT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
BETHESDA, MD - January 7, 2009 - Mitt Romney has been reappointed to the board of directors of Marriott International, Inc. (NYSE: MAR) the company said today. 
 
Gov. Romney previously served on the Marriott International board from 1992 to 2002, when he resigned to run for governor of Massachusetts.
 
"Marriott will get tremendous benefit from the unique combination of strengths Gov. Romney brings," said J.W. "Bill" Marriott, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of the company.  "We are delighted to again have access to his superlative business acumen and tremendous management expertise," he said.  
 
"Gov. Romney has repeatedly demonstrated leadership and courage in successfully taking on difficult and complex issues in business, government and the non-profit sector," said Mr. Marriott.  "He will provide strong guidance as our company navigates the challenges of the dynamic global financial system and economy." 
 
Gov. Romney said, "It is a great privilege to be asked to rejoin the Marriott board and I look forward to serving once again in that capacity. Marriott became one of the world's leading hotel companies because of its emphasis on service, quality and innovation. That same spirit will keep the company thriving, even during challenging economic times." 
 
On the board, Gov. Romney, 61, will chair the newly formed finance committee, which will assist in the oversight of the company's financial performance and capital deployment.
 
 
 
Gov. Romney was elected the 70 governor of Massachusetts, serving from 2003 until his term ended in early 2007, and was a candidate for the Republican nomination for president of the United States in the 2008 elections.  From 1999 to 2002 Gov. Romney was the chief executive officer of the Salt Lake Winter Olympics Organizing Committee.
th
 
Earlier, Gov. Romney was chief executive officer of Bain Capital, a private equity company, from 1984 to 1999, and took a leave to serve as chief executive officer at Bain & Co., a management consulting firm, from 1990 to 1991. He was vice president at Bain & Co. from 1978 to 1984.  
 
Active in community and civic affairs, Gov. Romney has served on the boards of such organizations as City Year and the Points of Light Foundation.  He received a B.A. from Brigham Young University in 1971, and received both an MBA from Harvard Business School and a J.D., cum laude, from Harvard Law School, in 1975.
 
Visit for company information.
http://www.marriott.com/corporateinfo/boilerplate.mi
 


