FILE:MAR/MAR-8K-20120213141757.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors: Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 9, 2012, the Compensation Policy Committee of the Marriott International, Inc. Board of Directors approved a new form of MI Shares award agreement available for grants to named executive officers, under the Marriott International, Inc. Stock and Cash Incentive Plan, as amended and restated as of May 1, 2009, and amended as of May 7, 2010 (the "Plan"). The form of award agreement provides that vesting of shares under the award, in addition to generally being subject to pro-rata annual vesting conditioned on continued service with the Company, consistent with the standard form of award agreement, also will be subject to satisfaction of a performance condition, expressed as an EBITDA goal, for a fiscal year during the applicable service vesting period (the "Applicable Vesting Period"). The EBITDA goal for awards will be established by the Committee under Section 11.1 of the Plan for each of the Company's fiscal years during the Applicable Vesting Period and is intended to allow awards to qualify as performance-based compensation that may satisfy the conditions for deductibility under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
A copy of the form of award agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and the foregoing description is qualified by reference to the terms of the award agreement.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
THIS AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made on (the "Grant Date") by MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. (the "Company") and ("Employee").
<<GRANT DATE>>
<<PARTICIPANT NAME>>
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the Company maintains the Marriott International, Inc. Stock and Cash Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"); and
WHEREAS, the Company wishes to award to designated employees certain MI Share awards as provided in Article 9A of the Plan; and
WHEREAS, Employee has been approved by the Compensation Policy Committee (the "Committee") of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") to receive an award of MI Shares under the Plan;
NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows:
1.. Employee has been provided with, and hereby acknowledges receipt of, a Prospectus for the Plan dated February 17, 2011, which contains, among other things, a detailed description of the MI Share award provisions of the Plan. Employee further acknowledges that he has read the Prospectus and this Agreement, and that Employee understands the provisions thereof.
Prospectus
2.. The provisions of the Plan are incorporated herein by reference and form an integral part of this Agreement. Except as otherwise set forth herein, capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Plan. In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. A copy of the Plan is available from the Compensation Department of the Company upon request. All decisions and interpretations made by the Committee or its delegate with regard to any question arising hereunder or under the Plan shall be binding and conclusive.
Interpretation
3.. Subject to the terms of the Plan, Employee's acceptance of this Agreement, and subject to satisfaction of the tax provisions of the Company's International Assignment Policy ("IAP"), if applicable, this award (the "Award") of MI Shares is made as of the Grant Date.
Grant of MI Shares
<<QTY GRANTED>>
4.. The MI Shares awarded under this Agreement shall be recorded in a Company book-keeping account and shall represent Employee's unsecured right to receive from the Company the transfer of title to shares of Common Stock of the Company ("Common Shares") in accordance with the schedule of Vesting Dates set forth in paragraph 5 below, provided that Employee has satisfied the Conditions of Transfer set forth in paragraph 6 below and subject to the satisfaction of the provision on withholding taxes set forth in paragraph 9 below. On each such Vesting Date, if it occurs, the Company shall reverse the book-keeping entry for all such related MI Shares and transfer a corresponding number of Common Shares (which may be reduced by the number of shares withheld to satisfy withholding taxes as set forth in paragraph 9 below, if share reduction is the method utilized for satisfying the tax withholding obligation) to an individual brokerage account (the "Account") established and maintained in Employee's name. Employee shall have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to such Common Shares transferred to the Account, including but not limited to the right to vote the Common Shares, to sell, transfer, liquidate or otherwise dispose of the Common Shares, and to receive all dividends or other distributions paid or made with respect to the Common Shares from the time they are deposited in the Account. Employee shall have no voting, transfer, liquidation, dividend or other rights of a Common Share stockholder with respect to MI Shares prior to such time that the corresponding Common Shares are transferred, if at all, to Employee's Account.
MI Share and Common Share Rights
5.. The MI Shares shall vest pro rata with respect to an additional 25 percent of the MI Shares granted hereunder on the 15
Vesting in MI Shares
th
day of the month in which occurs the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the Grant Date, respectively. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any such 15
th
day of the month is a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which stock of the Company is not traded on the New York Stock Exchange or another national exchange, then the Vesting Date shall be the next following day on which the stock of the Company is traded on the New York Stock Exchange or another national exchange ("Trading Day").
Notwithstanding this paragraph 5 and paragraph 8(b), the MI Shares shall remain unvested until February 15
th
(or the next Trading Day if the stock of the Company is not traded on February 15
th
) following the first year during the four-year vesting period described above ("Applicable Vesting Period") for which the EBITDA Goal is determined by the Committee to have been achieved. The "EBITDA Goal" is the EBITDA performance objective established in writing by the Committee under Section 11.1 of the Plan for each of the Company's fiscal years during the Applicable Vesting Period.
6.. With respect to any MI Shares awarded to Employee, as a condition of Employee receiving a transfer of corresponding Common Shares in accordance with paragraph 4 above, Employee shall meet all of the following conditions during the entire period from the Grant Date hereof through the Vesting Date relating to such MI Shares:
Conditions of Transfer
 
 
 
If Employee should fail to meet the requirements relating to (i) Continuous Employment, (ii) Non-competition, or (iii) No Improper Conduct, then Employee shall forfeit the right to vest in any MI Shares that have not already vested as of the time such failure is determined, and Employee shall accordingly forfeit the right to receive the transfer of title to any corresponding Common Shares. The forfeiture of rights with respect to unvested MI Shares (and corresponding Common Shares) shall not affect the rights of Employee with respect to any MI Shares that already have vested nor with respect to any Common Shares the title of which has already been transferred to Employee's Account.
7. . The MI Shares shall not be assignable or transferable by Employee except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. During Employee's lifetime, the MI Shares may be exercised only by Employee or, in the event of incompetence, by Employee's legally appointed guardian.
Non-Assignability
8..
Effect of Termination of Employment
 
 
Except as set forth in this paragraph 8 above, no other transfer of rights with respect to MI Shares shall be permitted pursuant to this Agreement.
8A. . In consideration of good and valuable consideration in the form of the MI Share Awards granted herein to which Employee is not otherwise entitled, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and in recognition of the Company's legitimate purpose of avoiding for limited times competition from persons whom Marriott has trained and/or given experience, Employee agrees that during the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending one year following his termination of employment with the Company, whether such termination of employment is voluntary or involuntary or with or without cause, he will not, on his own behalf or as a partner, officer, director, employee, agent, or consultant of any other person or entity, directly or indirectly contact, solicit or induce (or attempt to solicit or induce) any employee of the Company to leave their employment with the Company or consider employment with any other person or entity. Employee and the Company agree that any breach by Employee of the non-solicitation obligation under this paragraph
Non-Solicitation
 
will cause the Company immediate, material and irreparable injury and damage, and there is no adequate remedy at law for such breach. Accordingly, in the event of such breach, in addition to any other remedies it may have at law or in equity, the Company shall be entitled immediately to seek enforcement of this Agreement in a court of competent jurisdiction by means of a decree of specific performance, an injunction without the posting of a bond or the requirement of any other guarantee, any other form of equitable relief, liquidated damages in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the Fair Market Value of the Awards granted hereunder as of the Grant Date, and the Company is entitled to recover from Employee the costs and attorneys' fees it incurs to recover under or enforce this Agreement. This provision is not a waiver of any other rights that the Company may have under this Agreement, including the right to receive money damages.
9.. The transfer of Common Shares upon each Vesting Date, pursuant to paragraphs 4 and 6 above, shall be subject to the further condition that the Company shall provide for the withholding of any taxes required by federal, state, or local law in respect of that Vesting Date by reducing the number of MI Shares to be transferred to Employee's Account or by such other manner as the Committee shall determine in its discretion.
Taxes
10. . By executing this Agreement, Employee consents to the collection, maintenance and processing of Employee's personal information (such as Employee's name, home address, home telephone number and email address, social security number, assets and income information, birth date, hire date, termination date, other employment information, citizenship, marital status) by the Company and the Company's service providers for the purposes of (i) administering the Plan (including ensuring that the conditions of transfer are satisfied from the Grant Date through the Vesting Date), (ii) providing Employee with services in connection with Employee's participation in the Plan, (iii) meeting legal and regulatory requirements and (iv) for any other purpose to which Employee may consent ("Permitted Purposes"). Employee's personal information will not be processed for longer than is necessary for such Permitted Purposes. Employee's personal information is collected from the following sources:
Consent
 
 
 
 
In addition, Employee further consents to the Company disclosing Employee's personal information to the Company's third party service providers and affiliates and other entities in connection with the services the Company provides related to Employee's participation in the Plan, including:
 
 
 
 
Where Employee's personal information is provided to such third parties, the Company requires (to the extent permitted by applicable law) that such parties agree to process Employee's personal information in accordance with the Company's instructions.
Employee's personal information is maintained on the Company's networks and the networks of the Company's service providers, which may be in the United States or other countries other than the country in which this Award was granted. Employee acknowledges and agrees that the transfer of Employee's personal information to the United States or other countries other than the country in which this Award was granted is necessary for the Permitted Purposes. To the extent (if any) that the provisions of the European Union's Data Protection Directive (Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council) and/or applicable national legislation derived from such Directive apply, then by executing this Agreement Employee expressly consents to the transfer of Employee's personal information outside of the European Economic Area. Employee may access Employee's personal information to verify its accuracy, update Employee's personal information and/or request a copy of Employee's personal information by contacting Employee's local Human Resources representative. Employee may obtain account transaction information online or by contacting the Plan record keeper as described in the Plan enrollment materials. By accepting the terms of this Agreement, Employee further agrees to the same terms with respect to other Awards Employee received in any prior year under the Plan.
 
11. . Benefits under this Plan are not guaranteed. The grant of Awards is a one-time benefit and does not create any contractual or other right or claim to any future grants of Awards under the Plan, nor does a grant of Awards guarantee future participation in the Plan. The value of Employee's Awards is an extraordinary item outside the scope of Employee's employment contract, if any. Employee's Awards are not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-term service awards, pension or retirement benefits (except as otherwise provided by the terms of any U.S.-qualified retirement or pension plan maintained by the Company), or similar payments. By accepting the terms of this Agreement, Employee further agrees to these same terms and conditions with respect to any other Awards Employee received in any prior year under the Plan.
No Additional Rights
12.. The Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or terminate the Plan; provided, however, that no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan or the Award shall adversely affect the Award in any material way without written consent of Employee.
Amendment of This Agreement
13. . Notices hereunder shall be in writing, and if to the Company, may be delivered personally to the Compensation Department or such other party as designated by the Company or mailed to its principal office at 10400 Fernwood Road, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, addressed to the attention of the Stock Option Administrator (Department 935.40), and if to Employee, may be delivered personally or mailed to Employee at his or her address on the records of the Company.
Notices
14.. This Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and the successors and assigns of the Company and, to the extent provided in paragraph 8 above and in the Plan, to the personal representatives, legatees and heirs of Employee.
Successors and Assigns
15.. This agreement is not a contract of employment or otherwise a limitation on the right of the Company to terminate the employment of Employee or to increase or decrease Employee's compensation from the rate of compensation in existence at the time this Agreement is executed.
No Effect on Employment
16. . MI Shares awarded under this Agreement shall be subject to additional terms and conditions, as applicable, set forth in the Company's Policies for Global Compliance of Equity Compensation Awards, which are attached in the Appendix hereto and shall be incorporated herein fully by reference.
Additional (Non-U.S.) Terms and Conditions
, MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. has caused this Agreement to be signed by its Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources, effective the day and year first hereinabove written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
This document (the "Policies") sets forth policies of Marriott International, Inc. ("Marriott") for the administration of equity compensation awards (the "Awards") granted to employees (the "Employees") of Marriott and its subsidiaries (together, the "Company") under the Marriott International, Inc. Stock and Cash Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2008, and as subsequently amended from time to time (the "Plan"). The Policies apply to certain Employees who have received or held Awards under the Plan while working for the Company outside of the United States.
The Policies, as may be amended by the Company from time to time for changes in law, are an integral part of the terms of each agreement (the "Agreement") under which Awards are granted to Employees under the Plan. As such, the Policies set forth additional requirements or conditions in the non-U.S. jurisdictions indicated below that certain Employees to receive the intended benefits under their Awards. These requirements or conditions are established to ensure that the Company and the Employees comply with applicable legal requirements pertaining to the Awards in those jurisdictions. In addition, the Policies are established to assist the Employees in complying with other legal requirements which may not implicate the Company. These requirements, some carrying civil or criminal penalties for noncompliance, may apply with respect to Employees' Awards or shares of Marriott stock obtained pursuant to the Awards because of such Employees' presence (which may or may not require citizenship or legal residency) in a particular jurisdiction at some time during the term of the Awards.
must satisfy
Legal requirements are often complex and may change frequently. Therefore, the Policies provide general information only and may not be relied upon by Employees as their only source of information relating to the consequences of participation in the Plan, nor may they serve as the basis for recovery against the Company for financial or other penalties incurred by Employees as a result of their noncompliance. Employees should seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws may apply to them individually.
Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in the Policies have the meanings set forth in the Plan or in the Agreements. To the extent the Policies appear to conflict with the terms of the Plan or the Agreements, the Plan and the Agreement shall control.
INDIA
. If an Employee is a "Person Resident in India," the Employee must repatriate to India any proceeds from the sale of shares acquired under the Plan and any dividends received in relation to the shares and convert the proceeds into local currency within 90 days of receipt. In addition, such Employee must obtain a foreign inward remittance certificate ("FIRC") from the Indian foreign exchange bank where the Employee deposits the foreign currency upon repatriation, and the Employee must maintain the FIRC as evidence of the repatriation of funds in the event the Reserve Bank of India or the Employee's employer requests proof of repatriation.
Exchange Control Notice
For this purpose, "Person Resident in India" means:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THAILAND
. An Employees who is resident in Thailand (with the exception of an Employee who is a foreigner permitted to reside or work in Thailand for a period not exceeding three months) must repatriate to Thailand the proceeds from the sale of shares acquired under the Plan and any cash dividends received in relation to the shares and convert the funds to Thai Baht within 360 days of receipt. If the repatriated amount is U.S. $20,000 or more, the Employee must report the inward remittance by submitting the Foreign Exchange Transaction Form, which can be obtained from any commercial bank in Thailand, to an authorized agent, a commercial bank authorized by the Bank of Thailand to engage in the purchase, exchange and withdrawal of foreign currency.
Exchange Control Notice
i.e.,

Exhibit 10.3
THIS AMENDMENT to the Marriott International, Inc. Stock and Cash Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2008, and as subsequently amended (the "Plan"), is made this 7th day of May, 2010, by the addition of Article 22 of the Plan to read as follows:
 
To the extent that Code Section 409A may apply to any Awards under the Plan, it is intended that the terms of the Plan and such Awards meet the applicable requirements of Code Section 409A so that a Participant is not taxed under Code Section 409A with respect to such Awards until such time as Shares or other amounts are distributed to the Participant in accordance with the Plan's and the Awards' terms. For this purpose, the Plan and the Awards will be administered and interpreted to comply with Code Section 409A and any applicable Treasury or IRS guidance.
22.1 General.
To the extent that any Awards under the Plan may be subject to Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), distributions of Shares or other amounts pursuant to such Awards on account of a Termination of Service of a Participant who is a Specified Employee (as defined as follows) shall be made or commence not before the date which is six (6) months following the Termination of Service, except in the event of the Participant's death. Any distribution that is delayed under this Section 22.2 shall be distributed on the first day of the seventh month following the Specified Employee's Termination of Service (without affecting the timing of any subsequent installment that is not within the six-month period following Termination of Service). For this purpose, a Specified Employee is a person described under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-1(i), applying the default rules thereunder, except that the definition of compensation for purposes of identifying Specified Employees shall be the same definition as used for determining who are Specified Employees under the Marriott International, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan for the same determination period.
22.2 Delay for Specified Employees.


