FILE:MAR/MAR-8K-20120227155733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 22, 2012, Marriott International, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Terms Agreement with J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, and the other Underwriters listed on Schedule I thereto (the "Terms Agreement," which incorporates by reference the Underwriting Agreement General Terms and Provisions, dated June 9, 2006 (the "Underwriting Agreement") (which the Company previously filed on June 14, 2006 as Exhibit 1.1 to its Current Report on Form 8-K)) to issue $400 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.000% Series K Notes due 2019 (the "Notes"). The Company received net proceeds of approximately $392.5 million from this offering, after deducting the underwriting discount and estimated expenses of the offering. The Company expects to use these proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, stock repurchases or repayment of commercial paper borrowings as they become due.
The Company will pay interest on the Notes on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing on September 1, 2012. The Notes will mature on March 1, 2019, and are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the Company's option, under the terms provided in the form of Note.
The Notes were issued under an indenture dated as of November 16, 1998 with The Bank of New York Mellon, as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank, as trustee (the "Indenture") (which the Company previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1999).
The Terms Agreement, the Indenture Officer's Certificate pursuant to Section 301 of the Indenture and the form of Note are filed as exhibits to this report. In connection with the issuance of the Notes, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP provided a legal opinion, which also is filed as an exhibit to this report.
We have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Prospectus dated February 16, 2012 and a Prospectus Supplement dated February 22, 2012, each of which forms a part of our Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-179554) (the "Registration Statement"), in connection with the public offering of the Notes. We are filing the items listed below as exhibits to this report for the purpose of incorporating them as exhibits to the Registration Statement.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
J.P. M S LLC
ORGAN
ECURITIES
M L, P, F & S
ERRILL
YNCH
IERCE
ENNER
MITH
                          I
NCORPORATED
As Representatives of the
several Underwriters listed in Schedule I hereto
c/o J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
383 Madison Avenue, 40th Floor
New York, New York 10179
and
c/o Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
                            Incorporated
One Bryant Park
New York, NY 10036
February 22, 2012
Dear Ladies and Gentlemen:
Marriott International, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein and in the Underwriting Agreement General Terms and Provisions (the "Terms and Provisions") attached hereto, to issue and sell to each of the Underwriters named in hereto (the "Underwriters"), and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at the time and place and at the purchase price to the Underwriters set forth in hereto, the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite the name of such Underwriter in hereto. Each of the provisions of the Terms and Provisions is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, and shall be deemed to be a part of this Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein; and each of the representations and warranties set forth therein shall be deemed to have been made at and as of the date of this Terms Agreement. Each reference to the Representatives herein and in the provisions of the Terms and Provisions so incorporated by reference shall be deemed to refer to you. Terms defined in the Terms and Provisions and the address of the Representatives referred to in Section 11 of the Terms and Provisions and the address of the Representatives referred to in such Section 11 are set forth in hereto. For the avoidance of doubt, the Company and the Underwriters acknowledge and agree that the phrase "since the date of this Agreement" in Section 6(j) of the Terms and Provisions shall refer to the date of this Terms Agreement.
Schedule I
Schedule II
Schedule I
Schedule II
The Representatives hereby confirm and the Company acknowledges that the list of the Underwriters and their respective participation in the sale of the Securities and the statements with respect to the public offering of the Securities by the Underwriters set forth (i) in the last paragraph of the cover page regarding delivery of the Securities and (ii) in the fifth, eighth and twenty-first paragraphs under the heading "Underwriting" in the Company's Prospectus Supplement dated February 22, 2012, to the Company's Prospectus dated February 16, 2012, relating to the Securities (the "Prospectus Supplement") constitute the only information concerning such Underwriters furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of the Underwriters specifically for inclusion in the Prospectus Supplement.
All the provisions contained in the Terms and Provisions, a copy of which you have previously received, are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Terms Agreement to the same extent as if the Terms and Provisions had been set forth in full herein, for:
except
 
 
 
(u) As of the Applicable Time, the interactive data in eXtensible Business Reporting Language included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement fairly presents the information called for in all material respects and has been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines applicable thereto.
 
(v) The Company and its subsidiaries maintain an effective system of "disclosure controls and procedures" (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act) that is designed to ensure
that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, including controls and procedures designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company and its subsidiaries have carried out evaluations of the effectiveness of their disclosure controls and procedures as required by Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.
For the purposes of the Terms and Provisions, the "Applicable Time" shall be 5:32 p.m. (Eastern Time) on the date hereof.
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please sign and return to us two counterparts hereof, and upon acceptance hereof by you, on behalf of each of the Underwriters, this letter and such acceptance hereof, including the provisions of the Terms and Provisions incorporated herein by reference, shall constitute a binding agreement between each of the Underwriters and the Company. It is understood that your acceptance of this letter on behalf of each of the Underwriters is or will be pursuant to the authority set forth in a form of Agreement among Underwriters, the form of which shall be submitted to the Company for examination, upon request, but without warranty on the part of the Representatives as to the authority of the signers thereof.
 
The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date hereof.
J.P. M S LLC
ORGAN
ECURITIES
M L, P, F & S
ERRILL
YNCH
IERCE
ENNER
MITH
                         I
NCORPORATED
 
For themselves and the other several Underwriters named in Schedule I to the foregoing Agreement.
 
 
ANNEX A
Final Term Sheet dated February 22, 2012
ANNEX B
See Free Writing Prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 22, 2012.

Exhibit 4.1
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of Four Hundred Million Dollars on March 1, 2019 and to pay interest thereon from February 27, 2012, semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year, commencing September 1, 2012, at the rate of 3.000% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. All such payments of principal, interest and premium, if any, shall be paid in immediately available funds. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the February 15 or August 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in Dallas, Texas, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register; and , , that notwithstanding the foregoing, the Person in whose name this Security is registered may elect to receive payments of interest on this Security (other than at Maturity) by electronic funds transfer of immediately available funds to an account maintained by such Person, provided such Person so elects by giving written notice to a Paying Agent designating such account, no later than the February 1 or the August 1 immediately preceding the March 1 or September 1 Interest Payment Date, as the case may be. Unless such designation is revoked by such Person, any such designation made by such Person with respect to such Securities shall remain in effect with respect to any future payments with respect to such Securities payable to such Person.
provided
however
provided
further
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: February 27, 2012
 
Attest:
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON
as Trustee
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of November 16, 1998 (herein called the "Indenture", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof limited initially in aggregate principal amount to $400,000,000. The Company may subsequently issue additional securities as part of this series of Securities under the Indenture.
,
The Company may redeem the Securities in whole or in part from time to time prior to December 1, 2018, at its option, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (A) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Redemption Date, and (B) as determined by the Independent Investment Banker (as defined below), the sum of the present values of the principal amount of, and remaining scheduled payments of interest on, the Securities to be redeemed (not including any interest accrued as of the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 30 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Redemption Date.
The Company may redeem the Securities in whole or in part from time to time on or after December 1, 2018, at its option, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Redemption Date.
The Redemption Price will be calculated assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
The Company will mail notice of any redemption at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of the Securities to be redeemed.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities or portions of the Securities called for redemption.
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities that would be used, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities.
Comparable Treasury Issue
 
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations so received.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means (a) each of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and its successors, unless it ceases to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), in which case the Company shall substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (b) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding that Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per year equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated on the third business day preceding the Redemption Date, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
If a Change of Control Repurchase Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Securities of this series, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of the Securities of this series to repurchase all or any part (in excess of $2,000 in integral multiples of $1,000) of that Holder's Securities of this series at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of this series repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities of this series repurchased to the date of purchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after the public announcement of the Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Securities of this series on the payment date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice. The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and
 
regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities of this series as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions herein, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions herein by virtue of such conflict.
On the Change of Control Repurchase Event payment date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
1. accept for payment all Securities of this series or portions of Securities of this series properly tendered pursuant to the Company's offer;
2. deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the aggregate purchase price in respect of all Securities of this series or portions of Securities of this series properly tendered; and
3. deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Securities of this series properly accepted, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of the Securities being purchased by the Company.
The Paying Agent will promptly mail to each Holder of the Securities of this series properly tendered the purchase price for the Securities, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Security equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Securities surrendered; provided that each new Security will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000.
The Company will not be required to make an offer to repurchase the Securities of this series upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
"" means the Securities of this series are rated below Investment Grade (as defined below) by both Rating Agencies (as defined below) on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities of this series is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by either of the Rating Agencies); provided that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event herein) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
 
"" means the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's Voting Stock, measured by voting power rather than number of shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction effected to create a holding company for the Company will not be deemed to involve a change of control if: (1) pursuant to such transaction the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of such holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company, measured by voting power rather than number of shares.
Change of Control
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Change of Control Repurchase Event
"" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's); a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P); and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Company.
Investment Grade
"" means Moody's Investors Service Inc.
Moody's
"" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Securities of this series or fails to make a rating of the Securities of this series publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's board of directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both, as the case may be.
Rating Agency
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
"" of any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date means the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of 50% in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Trustee in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of the within Security, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations.
 
(State)
 
 
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER
IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
 
Dated:
NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it appears upon the face of the within Security in every particular, without alteration or enlargement of any change whatever.
 

Exhibit 4.2
A. The undersigned Carolyn B. Handlon and Ward R. Cooper of Marriott International, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Company"), hereby certify pursuant to Sections 102, 201, 301 and 303 of the Indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of November 16, 1998, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Trustee (the "Trustee"), that there is hereby established a series of Securities (as that term is defined in the Indenture), the terms of which shall be as follows:
1. The designation of the Securities shall be the "3.000% Series K Notes due 2019" (the "Notes") (CUSIP number 571903 AJ2).
2. The aggregate principal amount of the Notes which may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture (except for Notes authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, or upon partial redemption of, other Notes pursuant to Sections 304, 305, 306, 906 or 1107 of the Indenture and except for Notes which, pursuant to Section 303 of the Indenture, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered under the Indenture) is initially limited to US$400,000,000. The Company may subsequently issue additional securities as part of this series of Securities under the Indenture.
3. Subject to the provisions of Section 307 of the Indenture, interest will be payable to the Person in whose name a Note (or any predecessor Note) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date next preceding the Interest Payment Date in respect of such Note.
4. The principal amount of the Notes shall be payable in full on March 1, 2019, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
5. The Notes shall bear interest at the rate of 3.000% per annum from February 27, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing September 1, 2012, until the principal amount of the Notes has been paid or duly provided for. February 15 and August 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding an Interest Payment Date, shall be the "Regular Record Date" for interest payable on such Interest Payment Date.
6. The principal of and interest on the Notes shall be payable at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in Dallas, Texas; , , that payment of interest on a Note may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register; and
provided
however
, , that notwithstanding the foregoing, a Holder may elect to receive payments of interest on a Note (other than at Maturity) by electronic funds transfer of immediately available funds to an account maintained by such holder, provided such Holder so elects by giving written notice to a Paying Agent designating such account, no later than the February 15 or the August 15 immediately preceding the March 1 or September 1 Interest Payment Date, as the case may be. Unless such designation is revoked by the Holder, any such designation made by such Holder with respect to such Notes shall remain in effect with respect to any future payments with respect to such Notes payable to such Holder.
provided
further
7. The Notes may be redeemed in whole or in part at any time and from time to time on the terms specified in the Final Prospectus Supplement dated February 22, 2012 relating to the Notes.
8. Upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes, the Company will be required to make an offer to purchase the notes under the circumstances described and on the terms specified in the Final Prospectus Supplement dated February 22, 2012.
9. The Company will not be obligated to redeem or purchase the Notes pursuant to a sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of the Holder thereof.
10. The Notes will be issued in denominations of US$2,000 and any integral multiples of US$1,000 in excess thereof.
11. The payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes shall be payable in the coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
12. The Global Securities shall be in substantially the form attached hereto as .
Annex A
13. The Notes shall be defeasible as provide in Article Thirteen of the Indenture.
14. The Notes may be issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities. The initial Depositary for such Global Securities shall be The Depository Trust Company.
15. The Notes will not be Transfer Restricted Securities.
 
B. Each of the undersigned Carolyn B. Handlon and Ward R. Cooper hereby further certifies that:
1. Attached hereto as are true, correct and complete copies of resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company and certified by the Company's Secretary or Assistant Secretary. Such resolutions have not been amended, modified or rescinded, are in full force and effect in the form adopted and are the only resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company or by any committee of or designated by the Board of Directors of the Company relating to the offering of the Notes.
Annex B
2. I have read the conditions of Section 102, 201, 301 and 303 of the Indenture and the definitions relating thereto.
3. I have examined the Indenture, the attached specimen form of the Global Securities attached hereto as and the resolutions relating thereto adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company or a committee thereof.
Annex A
4. In my opinion, I have made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable me to express an informed opinion as to whether or not the conditions of Sections 102, 201, 301 and 303 of the Indenture relating to the issuance of the Notes have been complied with.
5. In my opinion, the conditions of Sections 102, 201, 301 and 303 of the Indenture relating to the issuance of the Notes have been complied with.
All terms used herein and not defined shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have signed this certificate.
Dated: February 27, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 5
 
February 27, 2012
Marriott International, Inc.
10400 Fernwood Road
Bethesda, Maryland 20817
 
Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-179554)
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel to Marriott International, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "") in connection with the preparation and filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") of a prospectus supplement, dated February 22, 2012, filed with the Commission on February 24, 2012 pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the Securities Act (the ""), and the offering by the Company pursuant thereto of $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.000% Series K Notes due 2019 (the ""). In connection therewith, we have examined the registration statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-179554 (the ""), under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") and the prospectus included therein.
Company
Commission
Prospectus Supplement
Notes
Registration Statement
Securities Act
The Notes have been issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of November 16, 1998 (the ""), entered into between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as successor indenture trustee to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank (the ""), as supplemented by the Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 301 of the Base Indenture, dated February 27, 2012, relating to the Notes (the "") between the Company and the Trustee.
Base Indenture
Trustee
301 Certificate
In arriving at the opinions expressed below, we have examined originals, or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction as being true and complete copies of the originals, of the Base Indenture, the 301 Certificate and the Notes and such other documents, corporate records, certificates of officers of the Company and of public officials and other instruments as we have deemed necessary or advisable to enable us to render these opinions. In our examination, we have assumed, without independent investigation, the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity and competency of all natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals and the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies. As to any facts material to these opinions, we have relied to the extent we deemed appropriate and without independent investigation upon statements and representations of officers and other representatives of the Company and others.
February 27, 2012
Page 2
 
Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the assumptions, exceptions, qualifications and limitations set forth herein, we are of the opinion that the Notes are legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their respective terms.
The opinions expressed above are subject to the following additional exceptions, qualifications, limitations and assumptions:
A. We render no opinion herein as to matters involving the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of New York. This opinion is limited to the effect of the current state of the laws of the State of New York and the facts as they currently exist. We assume no obligation to revise or supplement this opinion in the event of future changes in such laws or the interpretations thereof or such facts.
B. The opinions above are subject to (i) the effect of any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, arrangement or similar laws affecting the rights and remedies of creditors' generally, including without limitation the effect of statutory or other laws regarding fraudulent transfers or preferential transfers, and (ii) general principles of equity, including without limitation concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing and the possible unavailability of specific performance, injunctive relief or other equitable remedies regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
C. We express no opinion regarding the effectiveness of (i) any waiver of stay, extension or usury laws or of unknown future rights or (ii) provisions relating to indemnification, exculpation or contribution, to the extent such provisions may be held unenforceable as contrary to public policy or federal or state securities laws.
We consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement, and we further consent to the use of our name under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus Supplement. In giving these consents, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP


