Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The financial and business analysis below provides information which we believe is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. This financial and business analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes. The following discussion and certain other sections of this Report contain statements reflecting our views about our future performance and constitute forward looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements can be identified by words such as anticipate, intend, plan, believe, estimate, expect, assume, seek, appear, may, should, will and similar references to future periods. These views involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and, accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in such forward looking statements. We caution you against relying on any of these forward looking statements. In addition to the various factors included in the Executive Level Overview, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Outlook for the Company sections, our future performance may be affected by our reliance on new home construction and home improvement levels, our reliance on key customers, the cost and availability of raw materials, shifts in consumer preferences and purchasing practices, and our ability to achieve cost savings through the Masco Business System and other initiatives. These and other factors are discussed in detail in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. Any forward looking statement made by us in this Report speaks only as of the date on which it was made. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Executive Level Overview We manufacture, distribute and install home improvement and building products. These products are sold to the home improvement and new home construction markets through mass merchandisers, hardware stores, home centers, homebuilders, distributors and other outlets for consumers and contractors. During 2010, we continued to experience further sales volume declines for our cabinets, Installation and Other Services and builders hardware products. The sales volume decline for our installation and other services is primarily related to reduced revenue per job and the loss of market share in the new home construction market. The sales volume decline for our cabinet products is related to lower repair and remodel activity and shifting consumer preference to lower price point products, which has resulted in loss of market share related to cabinet repair and remodel activity with big box customers. Such sales volume declines were partially offset by a more favorable product mix of plumbing products and paints and stains. Net sales decreased three percent in 2010 from 2009, and operating profit (as adjusted to exclude impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets, general corporate expense, net, charge for defined benefit plan curtailment, charge for litigation settlements, accelerated stock compensation expense, and loss on corporate fixed assets, net see Footnote O of the consolidated financial statements) declined to 4.4 percent of sales in 2010 from 6.2 percent of sales in 2009. Factors that affect our results of operations include the levels of home improvement activity and new home construction principally in North America and Europe, the importance of our relationships with key customers (including The Home Depot, which represented approximately 26 percent of net sales in 2010), our ability to maintain our leadership positions in our U.S. and global markets in the face of increasing competition and our ability to effectively manage our overall cost structure, including the cost and availability of materials. Our International businesses face political, monetary, economic and other risks that vary from country to country, as well as fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Further, we have financial commitments and investments in financial assets that are not readily marketable and that involve financial risk. In addition, litigation could be costly. These and other factors are discussed in more detail in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. 18 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of any contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We regularly review our estimates and assumptions, which are based upon historical experience, as well as current economic conditions and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of certain assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions. We believe that the following critical accounting policies are affected by significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition and Receivables We recognize revenue as title to products and risk of loss is transferred to customers or when services are rendered. We record revenue for unbilled services performed based upon estimates of labor incurred in the Installation and Other Services segment; such amounts are recorded in Receivables. We record estimated reductions to revenue for customer programs and incentive offerings, including special pricing and co operative advertising arrangements, promotions and other volume based incentives. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts receivable for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. In addition, we monitor our customer receivable balances and the credit worthiness of our customers on an on going basis. During downturns in our markets, declines in the financial condition and creditworthiness of customers impact the credit risk of the receivables involved and we have incurred additional bad debt expense related to customer defaults. Our bad debt expense was $19 million, $34 million and $41 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In North America, we manufacture products (principally windows, doors and cabinets) and provide installation of insulation and other products and services to homebuilders. Our bad debt expense related to homebuilders was $10 million, $22 million and $28 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Inventories We record inventories at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with expense estimates made for obsolescence or unsaleable inventory equal to the difference between the recorded cost of inventories and their estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. On an on going basis, we monitor these estimates and record adjustments for differences between estimates and actual experience. Historically, actual results have not significantly deviated from those determined using these estimates. Financial Investments On January 1, 2008, we adopted accounting guidance that defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements for our financial investments and liabilities. This guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Further, it defines a fair value hierarchy, as follows: Level 1 inputs as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2 inputs as observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted market prices for similar assets or liabilities or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by market data; and Level 3 inputs as unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models or instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. 19 Table of Contents We have maintained investments in available for sale securities and a number of private equity funds, which aggregated $62 million and $106 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. We record investments in available for sale securities at fair value, and unrealized gains or losses (that are deemed to be temporary) are recognized, net of tax effect, through shareholders equity, as a component of other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance sheet. We estimated the fair value of investments in available for sale securities using primarily Level 1 inputs. In the past, we have invested excess cash in auction rate securities. Auction rate securities are investment securities that have interest rates which are reset every 7, 28 or 35 days. At December 31, 2010, our investment in auction rate securities was $22 million; we have not increased our investment in auction rate securities since 2007. The fair value of auction rate securities is estimated, on a recurring basis, using a discounted cash flow model (Level 3 input). If we changed the discount rate used in the fair value estimate by 75 basis points, the value of the auction rate securities would change by approximately $1 million. We carry our investments in private equity funds and other private investments at cost. It is not practicable for us to estimate a fair value for private equity funds and other private investments because there are no quoted market prices, and sufficient information is not readily available for us to utilize a valuation model to determine the fair value for each fund. These investments are evaluated, on a non recurring basis, for potential other than temporary impairment when impairment indicators are present, or when an event or change in circumstances has occurred, that may have a significant adverse effect on the fair value of the investment. Due to the significant unobservable inputs, the fair value measurements used to evaluate impairment are a Level 3 input. Impairment indicators we consider include the following: whether there has been a significant deterioration in earnings performance, asset quality or business prospects; a significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic or technological environment; a significant adverse change in the general market condition or geographic area in which the investment operates; industry and sector performance; current equity and credit market conditions; and any bona fide offers to purchase the investment for less than the carrying value. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the fund, including industry and sector performance. The significant assumptions utilized in analyzing a fund for potential other than temporary impairment include current economic conditions, market analysis for specific funds and performance indicators in residential and commercial construction, bio technology, health care and information technology sectors in which the applicable funds investments operate. At December 31, 2010, we have investments in 17 venture capital funds, with an aggregate carrying value of $22 million. The venture capital funds invest in start up or smaller, early stage established businesses, principally in the information technology, bio technology and health care sectors. At December 31, 2010, we also have investments in 26 buyout funds, with an aggregate carrying value of $84 million. The buyout funds invest in later stage, established businesses and no buyout fund has a concentration in a particular sector. Since there is no active trading market for these investments, they are for the most part illiquid. These investments, by their nature, can also have a relatively higher degree of business risk, including financial leverage, than other financial investments. The timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events related to the underlying investments, as well as the funds schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount of income we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Future changes in market conditions, the future performance of the underlying investments or new information provided by private equity fund managers could affect the recorded values of these investments and the amounts realized upon liquidation. We record an impairment charge to earnings when an investment has experienced a decline in fair value that is deemed to be other than temporary. During 2010, we recognized non cash, pre tax impairment charges of $34 million related to our investment in Asahi Tec ($28 million), three private equity funds ($4 million) and one private investment ($2 million). 20 Table of Contents Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We record the excess of purchase cost over the fair value of net tangible assets of acquired companies as goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets. In the fourth quarter of each year, or as events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount, we complete the impairment testing of goodwill utilizing a discounted cash flow method. We selected the discounted cash flow methodology because we believe that it is comparable to what would be used by other market participants. We have defined our reporting units and completed the impairment testing of goodwill at the operating segment level, as defined by accounting guidance. Our operating segments are reporting units that engage in business activities, for which discrete financial information, including five year forecasts, are available. Determining market values using a discounted cash flow method requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, including long term projections of cash flows, market conditions and appropriate discount rates. Our judgments are based upon historical experience, current market trends, consultations with external valuation specialists and other information. While we believe that the estimates and assumptions underlying the valuation methodology are reasonable, different estimates and assumptions could result in different outcomes. In estimating future cash flows, we rely on internally generated five year forecasts for sales and operating profits, including capital expenditures, and generally a one to three percent long term assumed annual growth rate of cash flows for periods after the five year forecast. We generally develop these forecasts based upon, among other things, recent sales data for existing products, planned timing of new product launches, estimated housing starts and repair and remodeling estimates for existing homes. In 2010, for our reporting units that primarily sell to the new home construction market (including those in the Installation and Other Services segment), we utilized estimated housing starts, from independent industry sources, growing from current levels to 1.5 million units in 2015 (terminal growth year) and operating profit margins improving to approximate historical margins for those business units by 2015 (terminal growth year). We generally utilize our weighted average cost of capital (discount rate) of approximately eight percent to discount the estimated cash flows. However, in 2010, due to market conditions, we increased the discount rate to a range of nine percent to eleven percent for most of our reporting units, based upon a review of the current risks impacting our businesses. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we estimated that future discounted cash flows projected for most of our reporting units were greater than the carrying values. Any increases in estimated discounted cash flows would have no effect on the reported value of goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we measure the possible goodwill impairment based upon an allocation of the estimate of fair value of the reporting unit to all of the underlying assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including any previously unrecognized intangible assets (Step Two Analysis). The excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that a reporting units recorded goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill. In 2010, we recognized non cash, pre tax impairment charges for goodwill aggregating $711 million ($587 million, after tax). The pre tax impairment charge relates to our North American Installation business and reflects the weak level of new home construction activity in 2010, the historic low levels of new housing starts and the expectation that the recovery in the new home construction market will be modestly slower than previously anticipated. We increased the discount rate used to estimate the fair value of our businesses in the new home construction industry, due to the uncertainty regarding the timing and trajectory of the recovery in the new home construction market. These changes resulted in our book value exceeding the estimated fair value of the business, resulting in the impairment charge for goodwill. A 10 percent decrease in the estimated fair value of our reporting units at December 31, 2010 would not have resulted in any additional analysis of goodwill impairment for any additional business unit. 21 Table of Contents We review our other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment annually, in the fourth quarter, or as events occur or circumstances change that indicate the assets may be impaired without regard to the reporting unit. We consider the implications of both external (e.g., market growth, competition and local economic conditions) and internal (e.g., product sales and expected product growth) factors and their potential impact on cash flows related to the intangible asset in both the near and long term. In 2010, we recognized non cash, pre tax impairment charges for other indefinite lived intangible assets of $10 million ($6 million, after tax). The pre tax impairment charges recorded in 2010 were as follows: Plumbing Products segment $1 million, and Installation and Other Services segment $9 million. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized using the straight line method over their estimated useful lives. We evaluate the remaining useful lives of amortizable identifiable intangible assets at each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining periods of amortization. Stock Based Compensation Our 2005 Long Term Stock Incentive Plan (the 2005 Plan) provides for the issuance of stock based incentives in various forms to employees and non employee Directors. At December 31, 2010, outstanding stock based incentives were in the form of long term stock awards, stock options, phantom stock awards and stock appreciation rights. Long Term Stock Awards We grant long term stock awards to key employees and non employee Directors and do not cause net share dilution inasmuch as we continue the practice of repurchasing and retiring an equal number of shares on the open market. We measure compensation expense for stock awards at the market price of our common stock at the grant date. There was $127 million (ten million common shares) of total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock awards at December 31, 2010, which was included as a reduction of common stock and paid in capital. Effective January 1, 2010, the vesting period for stock awards awarded after January 1, 2010 is 5 years. Effective January 1, 2006, we recognize this expense ratably over the shorter of the vesting period of the stock awards, typically 5 to 10 years (except for stock awards held by grantees age 66 or older, which vest over five years), or the length of time until the grantee becomes retirement eligible at age 65. For stock awards granted prior to January 1, 2006, we recognize this expense over the vesting period of the stock awards, typically 5 to 10 years, or for executive grantees that are, or will become, retirement eligible during the vesting period, we recognize the expense over five years or immediately upon a grantees retirement. Pre tax compensation expense for the annual vesting of long term stock awards was $37 million for 2010. Stock Options We grant stock options to key employees. The exercise price equals the market price of our common stock at the grant date. These options generally become exercisable (vest ratably) over five years beginning on the first anniversary from the date of grant and expire no later than 10 years after the grant date. We measure compensation expense for stock options using a Black Scholes option pricing model. For stock options granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, we recognize this compensation expense ratably over the shorter of the vesting period of the stock options, typically five years, or the length of time until the grantee becomes retirement eligible at age 65. The expense for unvested stock options at January 1, 2006 is based upon the grant date fair value of those options as calculated using a Black Scholes option pricing model. For stock options granted prior to January 1, 2006, we recognize this compensation expense ratably over the vesting period of the stock options, typically five years. Pre tax compensation expense for stock options was $22 million for 2010. We estimated the fair value of stock options at the grant date using a Black Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions for 2010: risk free interest rate 2.76%, dividend yield 2.17%, volatility 22 Table of Contents factor 46.03% and expected option life 6 years. For expense calculation purposes, the weighted average grant date fair value of option shares granted in 2010 was $5.30 per option share. If we increased our assumptions for the risk free interest rate and the volatility factor by 50 percent, the expense related to the fair value of stock options granted in 2010 would increase by 43 percent. If we lowered our assumptions for the risk free interest rate and the volatility factor by 50 percent, the expense related to the fair value of stock options granted in 2010 would decrease by 53 percent. Employee Retirement Plans In March 2009, the Board of Directors approved freezing all future benefit accruals under substantially all of our domestic qualified and non qualified defined benefit pension plans. The freeze was effective January 1, 2010. As a result of this action, the liabilities for these plans were remeasured and we recognized a curtailment charge of $8 million in the first quarter of 2009. In addition, certain assumptions appropriate for on going plans (e.g., turnover, mortality and compensation increases) were modified or eliminated for the remeasurement. Accounting for defined benefit pension plans involves estimating the cost of benefits to be provided in the future, based upon vested years of service, and attributing those costs over the time period each employee works. We develop our pension costs and obligations from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions regarding inflation, expected return on plan assets, mortality rates, compensation increases and discount rates for obligations and expenses. We consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in selecting these assumptions. Changes in assumptions used could result in changes to reported pension costs and obligations within our consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, we decreased our discount rate for obligations to an average of 5.30 percent from 5.80 percent. The discount rate for obligations was based upon the expected duration of each defined benefit pension plans liabilities matched to the December 31, 2010 Towers Watson Rate Link curve. The discount rates we use for our defined benefit pension plans ranged from 2.30 percent to 5.55 percent, with the most significant portion of the liabilities having a discount rate for obligations of 5.00 percent or higher. The assumed asset return was primarily 7.25 percent, reflecting the expected long term return on plan assets. Our net underfunded amount for our qualified defined benefit pension plans, which is the difference between the projected benefit obligation and plan assets, increased to $359 million at December 31, 2010 from $332 million at December 31, 2009, primarily due to lower rates of return in the bond market in 2010. In accordance with accounting guidance, the underfunded amount has been recognized on our consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Qualified domestic pension plan assets in 2010 had a net gain of approximately 12 percent compared to average gains of 13 percent for the corporate funds universe within the Independent Consultant Cooperative. Our projected benefit obligation for our unfunded non qualified defined benefit pension plans was $163 million at December 31, 2010 compared with $152 million at December 31, 2009. This unfunded amount has been recognized on our consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009. We expect pension expense for our qualified defined benefit pension plans to be $24 million in 2011 compared with $23 million in 2010. If we assumed that the future return on plan assets was one half percent lower than the assumed asset return and the discount rate decreased by 50 basis points, the 2011 pension expense would increase by $4 million. We expect pension expense for our non qualified defined benefit pension plans to be $9 million in 2011 compared with $9 million in 2010. We have several funding options and credits available and we anticipate that we will be required to contribute approximately $30 million to $35 million in 2011 to our qualified defined benefit plans. 23 Table of Contents Income Taxes The accounting guidance for income taxes requires that the future realization of deferred tax assets depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in future periods. Possible sources of taxable income include taxable income in carryback periods, the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences recorded as a deferred tax liability, tax planning strategies that generate future income or gains in excess of anticipated losses in the carryforward period and projected future taxable income. If, based upon all available evidence, both positive and negative, it is more likely than not (more than 50 percent likely) such deferred tax assets will not be realized, a valuation allowance is recorded. Significant weight is given to positive and negative evidence that is objectively verifiable. A companys three year cumulative loss position is significant negative evidence in considering whether deferred tax assets are realizable and the accounting guidance restricts the amount of reliance the Company can place on projected taxable income to support the recovery of the deferred tax assets. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded a $371 million valuation allowance against our U.S. Federal deferred tax assets as a non cash charge to income tax expense. In reaching this conclusion, we considered the weaker retail sales of certain of our building products and the slower than anticipated recovery in the U.S. housing market which led to U.S. operating losses and significant U.S. goodwill impairment charges, that primarily occurred in the fourth quarter of 2010, causing us to be in a three year cumulative U.S. loss position. These factors negatively impact our ability to utilize previously identified tax planning strategies that included the potential sale of certain non core operating assets to support the realization of our U.S. Federal deferred tax assets, since current year losses are heavily weighted in determining if sufficient income would exist in the carryforward period to realize the benefit of the strategies. Recording the valuation allowance does not restrict our ability to utilize the future deductions and net operating losses associated with the deferred tax assets assuming taxable income is recognized in future periods. A rebound in the U.S. housing market from the current historic lows and retail sales of building products improving from their current levels should have a positive impact on our operating results in the U.S. A return to sustained profitability in the U.S. should result in objective positive evidence thereby warranting consideration of our previously identified tax planning strategies and the potential reversal of all or a portion of the valuation allowance. The $228 million of deferred tax assets at December 31, 2010, for which there are no valuation allowance recorded, is anticipated to be realized through the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences recorded as deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2010. Should we determine that we would not be able to realize our remaining deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance would be recorded in the period such determination is made. The need to maintain a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets may cause greater volatility in our effective tax rate. The current accounting guidance allows the recognition of only those income tax positions that have a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. We believe that there is an increased potential for volatility in our effective tax rate because this threshold allows changes in the income tax environment and the inherent complexities of income tax law in a substantial number of jurisdictions to affect the computation of our liability for uncertain tax positions to a greater extent. While we believe we have adequately provided for our uncertain tax positions, amounts asserted by taxing authorities could vary from our accrued liability for uncertain tax positions. Accordingly, additional provisions for tax related matters, including interest and penalties, could be recorded in income tax expense in the period revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved. 24 Table of Contents Other Commitments and Contingencies Certain of our products and product finishes and services are covered by a warranty to be free from defects in material and workmanship for periods ranging from one year to the life of the product. At the time of sale, we accrue a warranty liability for estimated costs to provide products, parts or services to repair or replace products in satisfaction of warranty obligations. Our estimate of costs to service our warranty obligations is based upon historical experience and expectations of future conditions. To the extent that we experience any changes in warranty claim activity or costs associated with servicing those claims, our warranty liability is adjusted accordingly. The majority of our business is at the consumer retail level through home centers and major retailers. A consumer may return a product to a retail outlet that is a warranty return. However, certain retail outlets do not distinguish between warranty and other types of returns when they claim a return deduction from us. Our revenue recognition policy takes into account this type of return when recognizing revenue, and we record deductions at the time of sale. We are subject to lawsuits and pending or asserted claims in the ordinary course of our business. Liabilities and costs associated with these matters require estimates and judgments based upon our professional knowledge and experience and that of our legal counsel. When estimates of our exposure for lawsuits and pending or asserted claims meet the criteria for recognition under accounting guidance, amounts are recorded as charges to earnings. The ultimate resolution of these exposures may differ due to subsequent developments. See Note S to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding certain of our legal proceedings. Corporate Development Strategy Our current business strategy includes the rationalization of our business units, including consolidations, and increasing synergies among our business units. Going forward, we expect to maintain a balanced growth strategy with emphasis on cash flow, organic growth with fewer acquisitions and growth through new product development, start up businesses related to home energy services and greenfield locations related to certain Installation and Other Services businesses. As part of our strategic planning, we continue to review all of our businesses to determine which businesses may not be core to our long term growth strategy. During 2010, we did not sell any business unit or acquire any business. We accounted for the business units which were sold in 2009 and 2008, as discontinued operations. See Note B to the consolidated financial statements for more information. The results of all acquisitions are included in the consolidated financial statements from the respective dates of acquisition. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, we have largely funded our growth through cash provided by a combination of our operations, long term bank debt and the issuance of notes in the financial markets, and by the issuance of our common stock, including issuances for certain mergers and acquisitions. Maintaining high levels of liquidity and focusing on cash generation are among our financial strategies; such strategies have resulted in cash of over $1.7 billion at December 31, 2010. Our total debt as a percent of total capitalization was 72 percent and 58 percent at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. On June 21, 2010, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) with a bank group, with an aggregate commitment of $1.25 billion with a maturity date of January 10, 2014. Our previous 5 Year Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of November 5, 2004, as amended, was terminated at that time. The Credit Agreement provides for an unsecured revolving credit facility available to the Company and one of its foreign subsidiaries, in U.S. dollars, European euros and certain other currencies. Borrowings under the revolver denominated in euros are limited to $500 million, equivalent. The Company can also borrow swingline loans up to $150 million and obtain letters of credit of up to $250 million. Any outstanding Letters of 25 Table of Contents Credit reduce the Companys borrowing capacity. At December 31, 2010, the Company had $99 million of outstanding and unused Letters of Credit, reducing the Companys borrowing capacity by such amount. Our revolving credit loans bear interest under the Credit Agreement, at the Companys option: at (A) a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (i) prime rate, (ii) the Federal Funds effective rate plus 0.50% and (iii) LIBOR plus 1.0% (the Alternative Base Rate); plus an applicable margin based upon the then applicable corporate credit ratings of the Company; or (B) LIBOR plus an applicable margin based upon the then applicable corporate credit ratings of the Company. The foreign currency revolving credit loans bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR plus an applicable margin based upon the then applicable corporate credit ratings of the Company. The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain (A) a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of 65 percent, and (B) a minimum interest coverage ratio equal to or greater than (i) 2.25 to 1.0 through the quarter ending on September 30, 2011 and (ii) 2.50 to 1.0 thereafter. The debt to total capitalization ratio allows the add back, if incurred, of up to the first $500 million of certain non cash charges, including goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges, occurring from and after April 1, 2010, that would negatively impact shareholders equity. Based on the limitations of the debt to total capitalization covenant (before the amendment discussed below), at December 31, 2010, the Company had additional borrowing capacity, subject to availability, of up to $113 million. Alternatively, at December 31, 2010, the Company could absorb a reduction to shareholders equity of approximately $61 million, and remain in compliance with the debt to total capitalization covenant. In order to borrow under the Credit Agreement, there must not be any default in the Companys covenants in the Credit Agreement (i.e., in addition to the two financial covenants, principally limitations on subsidiary debt, negative pledge restrictions, legal compliance requirements and maintenance of properties and insurance) and the Companys representations and warranties in the Credit Agreement must be true in all material respects on the date of borrowing (i.e., principally no material adverse change or litigation likely to result in a material adverse change, since December 31, 2009, in each case, no material ERISA or environmental non compliance and no material tax deficiency). The Company was in compliance with all covenants and no borrowings have been made at December 31, 2010. On February 11, 2011, the Company entered into an amendment (deemed to be effective and applicable as of December 31, 2010) of the Credit Agreement with its bank group (the Amendment). The Amendment provides for the add back to shareholders equity in the Companys maximum debt to capitalization covenant of (i) certain non cash charges (including impairment charges for financial investments, goodwill and other intangible assets) and (ii) changes to the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets included in income tax expense, each taken in 2010, which aggregate $986 million after tax. The Amendment also permits the Company to add back, if incurred, up to $350 million in the aggregate of future non cash charges. We currently have borrowing capacity approximating $1 billion available under the Credit Agreement. We have no scheduled maturities until July 2012 when $791 million of 5.875% fixed rate notes become due. The holders of the Companys Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Notes (Notes) have the right to redeem the Notes for cash on July 20, 2011 for approximately $58 million. The next cash redemption date is July 20, 2016. We had cash and cash investments of over $1.7 billion at December 31, 2010, principally as a result of strong cash flows from operations. Our cash and cash investments consist of overnight interest bearing money market demand and time deposit accounts, money market mutual funds containing government securities and treasury obligations. While we attempt to diversify these investments in a prudent manner to minimize risk, it is possible that future changes in the financial markets could affect the security or availability of these investments. We have maintained investments in available for sale and marketable securities and a number of private equity funds, principally as part of our tax planning strategies, as any gains enhance the utilization of any 26 Table of Contents current and future capital tax losses. We determined that the longer maturity of private equity funds would be advantageous and complement our investment in more liquid available for sale and marketable securities to balance risk. Since we have significantly reduced our capital tax losses in part by generating capital gains from investments and other sources, we have and will continue to reduce our investments in long term financial assets. During 2010, we paid a quarterly dividend of $.075 per common share. Our working capital ratio was 2.3 to 1 and 1.9 to 1 at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to manage exposure to currency fluctuations, primarily related to the European euro and the U.S. dollar. We have also entered into commodity contracts related to copper and zinc. Cash Flows Significant sources and (uses) of cash in the past three years are summarized as follows, in millions: 2010 2009 2008 Net cash from operating activities $ 465 $ 705 $ 797 Retirement of notes (359 ) (100 ) Issuance of notes, net of issuance costs 494 Proceeds from disposition of: Businesses, net of cash disposed 8 179 Property and equipment 18 23 1 Proceeds from financial investments, net 42 11 58 Proceeds from settlement of swaps 16 Tax benefit from stock based compensation 4 7 3 Cash dividends paid (108 ) (166 ) (336 ) Capital expenditures (137 ) (125 ) (200 ) Purchase of Company common stock (45 ) (11 ) (160 ) Decrease in debt, net (2 ) (11 ) (33 ) Dividends paid to noncontrolling interest (15 ) (16 ) (21 ) Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (8 ) (21 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash investments (14 ) (5 ) (46 ) Other, net (41 ) (27 ) (31 ) Cash increase $ 302 $ 385 $ 106 Our cash and cash investments increased $302 million to $1,715 million at December 31, 2010, from $1,413 million at December 31, 2009. Net cash provided by operations of $465 million consisted primarily of net (loss) adjusted for non cash and certain other items, including depreciation and amortization expense of $279 million, a $721 million charge for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, a $168 million net change in deferred taxes, a $67 million charge for the impairment of long lived assets related to the closure of a cabinet facility, a $34 million charge for the impairment of financial investments and other non cash items, including stock based compensation expense, amortization expense related to in store displays and interest expense on the Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Notes, as well as a net decrease in working capital of $49 million. We continue to emphasize balance sheet management, including working capital management and cash flow generation. Days sales in accounts receivable were 47 days at December 31, 2010 compared with 48 days at December 31, 2009, and days sales in inventories were 49 days at December 31, 2010 and 27 Table of Contents 48 days at December 31, 2009. Accounts payable days were 51 days at December 31, 2010 and 47 days at December 31, 2009. Working capital (defined as accounts receivable and inventories less accounts payable) as a percent of sales was 13.4 percent at December 31, 2010 and 14.7 percent at December 31, 2009; such improvement was primarily due to improved accounts payable management. Net cash used for financing activities was $40 million, and included $359 million for the retirement of notes (retired $300 million of floating rate notes on March 12, 2010, the scheduled maturity date and, during the second quarter of 2010, we repurchased $59 million of 5.875% Notes due July 2012, in open market transactions), partially offset by $494 million from the issuance of Notes, net of issuance costs. Financing activities also include cash outflows of $108 million for cash dividends paid, $2 million for the net payment of debt and $45 million for the acquisition of our common stock to offset the dilutive impact of long term stock awards granted in 2010. At December 31, 2010, we had remaining Board of Directors authorization to repurchase up to an additional 27 million shares of our common stock in open market transactions or otherwise. We believe that our present cash balance and cash flows from operations are sufficient to fund our near term working capital and other investment needs. We believe that our longer term working capital and other general corporate requirements will be satisfied through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from bank borrowings and future financial market activities. Consistent with past practice, we anticipate repurchasing shares in 2011 to offset any dilution from long term stock awards granted or stock options exercised as part of our compensation programs. Net cash used for investing activities was $109 million, and included $137 million for capital expenditures. Cash provided by investing activities included primarily $18 million of net proceeds from the disposition of property and equipment and $42 million from the net sale of financial investments. We invest in automating our manufacturing operations to increase our productivity, improve customer service and support new product innovation. Capital expenditures for 2010 were $137 million, compared with $125 million for 2009 and $200 million for 2008; for 2011, capital expenditures, excluding any potential 2011 acquisitions, are expected to be approximately $230 million. Depreciation and amortization expense for 2010 totaled $279 million, compared with $254 million for 2009 and $238 million for 2008; for 2011, depreciation and amortization expense, excluding any potential 2011 acquisitions, is expected to be approximately $260 million. Amortization expense totaled $18 million, $17 million and $17 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Costs of environmental responsibilities and compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations have not had, nor do we expect them to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, financial position or results of operations. Consolidated Results of Operations We report our financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States. However, we believe that certain non GAAP performance measures and ratios, used in managing the business, may provide users of this financial information with additional meaningful comparisons between current results and results in prior periods. Non GAAP performance measures and ratios should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, our reported results. Sales and Operations Net sales for 2010 were $7.6 billion, representing a decrease of three percent from 2009. Excluding results from acquisitions and the effect of currency translation, net sales decreased two percent compared 28 Table of Contents with 2009. The following table reconciles reported net sales to net sales excluding acquisitions and the effect of currency translation, in millions: Twelve Months Ended December 31 2010 2009 Net sales, as reported $ 7,592 $ 7,792 Acquisitions Net sales, excluding acquisitions 7,592 7,792 Currency translation 48 Net sales, excluding acquisitions and the effect of currency $ 7,640 $ 7,792 Net sales for 2010 were adversely affected by lower sales volume of installation and other services and cabinets, which, in aggregate, reduced sales by approximately three percent compared to 2009. Net sales for 2010 were also negatively affected by lower sales volume of builders hardware and North American plumbing products, which reduced net sales by approximately one percent compared to 2009. Such declines were partially offset by a more favorable product mix of plumbing products and paints and stains, which increased sales by approximately one percent compared to 2009. Net sales volume in 2010 of our International plumbing products and windows increased in local currencies and increased consolidated net sales by approximately one percent compared to 2009. A stronger U.S. dollar decreased sales by one percent compared to 2009. Net sales for 2009 were adversely affected by declines in the new home construction market, which reduced sales volume by approximately nine percent compared to 2008. Net sales for 2009 were also negatively affected by declines in consumer spending for home improvement products, which contributed to lower sales volume, reducing net sales by approximately six percent compared to 2008. Such declines were partially offset by net selling price increases for certain products, which increased sales by approximately one percent compared to 2008. Net sales volume in 2009 of our International products declined in local currencies and reduced consolidated net sales by approximately three percent compared to 2008. A stronger U.S. dollar decreased sales by two percent compared to 2008. Our gross profit margins were 24.2 percent, 25.9 percent and 24.9 percent in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in the 2010 gross profit margin reflects lower sales volume, increased depreciation expense related to plant closures and a less favorable relationship between selling prices and commodity costs. Such decreases were partially offset by the benefits associated with our business rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales were 21.3 percent in 2010 compared with 21.8 percent in 2009 and 19.0 percent in 2008. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales in 2010 and 2009 reflect lower sales volume, increased advertising expenses related to new product introductions and increased system implementation costs. Operating (loss) profit in 2010, 2009 and 2008 includes $208 million, $94 million and $78 million, net, respectively, of costs and charges related to our business rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives. Operating (loss) profit in 2010, 2009 and 2008 includes $721 million, $262 million and $467 million, respectively, of impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets. Operating (loss) profit in 2009 includes $7 million of charges for litigation settlements. Operating (loss) profit margins, as reported, were (6.6) percent, 0.7 percent and 0.9 percent in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Operating profit margins, excluding the items above, were 5.7 percent, 5.4 percent and 6.8 percent in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Operating margins in 2010 were positively affected by the benefits associated with business rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives, which more than offset the negative effect of lower sales volume and the less favorable relationship between selling prices and commodity costs. 29 Table of Contents Operating profit margins in 2009 were negatively affected by lower sales volume and the related under absorption of fixed costs and lower selling prices related to the decline in the new home construction market in North America as well as lower sales volume of plumbing products in the North American and International home improvement markets. Such declines in 2009 were partially offset by increased sales of paints and stains, the improved relationship between selling prices and commodity costs across our businesses and the benefits associated with business rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives. Operating profit margins in 2008 were adversely affected by accelerating declines in new home construction and a continued decline in consumer spending in North American and International markets, both of which negatively impacted the sales volume in each of our segments. Other Income (Expense), Net During 2010, we recognized non cash, pre tax impairment charges aggregating $34 million related to financial investments ($28 million related to Asahi Tec preferred stock and $6 million related to private equity funds and other private investments). Other, net, for 2010 included $9 million of income from financial investments, net. Other, net, for 2010 also included realized foreign currency losses of $2 million and other miscellaneous items. During 2009, we recognized non cash, pre tax impairment charges aggregating $10 million for our investments in private equity funds. Other, net, for 2009 included $3 million of income from financial investments, net. Other, net, for 2009 also included realized foreign currency gains of $17 million and other miscellaneous items. During 2008, we recognized non cash, pre tax impairment charges aggregating $58 million primarily related to financial investments in TriMas common stock ($31 million), Asahi Tec common stock ($1 million), private equity funds ($23 million) and other investments ($3 million). Other, net, for 2008 included $3 million of realized losses, net, from the sale of marketable securities and $4 million of income from other investments, net. Other, net, for 2008 also included realized foreign currency losses of $29 million and other miscellaneous items. Interest expense was $251 million, $225 million and $228 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in interest expense in 2010 is primarily due to the issuance of $500 million of 7.125% notes in March. (Loss) Income and (Loss) Earnings Per Common Share from Continuing Operations (Attributable to Masco Corporation) (Loss) and diluted (loss) per common share from continuing operations for 2010 were $(1,043) million and $(3.00) per common share, respectively. (Loss) and diluted (loss) per common share from continuing operations for 2009 were $(140) million and $(.41) per common share, respectively. (Loss) and diluted (loss) per common share from continuing operations for 2008 were $(366) million and $(1.06) per common share, respectively. (Loss) from continuing operations for 2010 included non cash, pre tax impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets of $721 million ($593 million or $1.70 per common share, after tax). (Loss) from continuing operations for 2009 included non cash, pre tax impairment charges for goodwill of $262 million ($180 million or $.51 per common share, after tax). (Loss) from continuing operations for 2008 included non cash, pre tax impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets of $467 million ($445 million or $1.26 per common share, after tax). Our effective tax rate for the loss from continuing operations was a 29 percent tax expense, a 33 percent tax benefit and a 69 percent tax expense in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our effective tax rate for the loss from continuing operations, excluding the $371 million income tax expense related to a valuation allowance on our U.S. Federal deferred tax assets recorded in 2010 and impairment charges for goodwill and other intangibles, was a 32 percent tax benefit, a 30 percent tax expense and a 57 percent tax expense in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Compared to our normalized effective tax rate of 36 percent, the lower 30 Table of Contents effective tax rate in 2009 is due primarily to the reversal of an accrual for uncertain tax positions related to a withholding tax issue from a formerly held European company due to a favorable court decision. The higher effective tax rate in 2008 reflects the additional U.S. tax on a repatriation of low taxed earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries in order to utilize a foreign tax credit carryforward, combined with a decrease in 2008 pre tax income. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded a $371 million valuation allowance against our U.S. Federal deferred tax assets as a non cash charge to income tax expense. In reaching this conclusion, we considered the weaker retail sales of certain of our building products and the slower than anticipated recovery in the U.S. housing market which led to U.S. operating losses and significant U.S. goodwill impairment charges, that primarily occurred in the fourth quarter of 2010, causing us to be in a three year cumulative U.S. loss position. These factors negatively impact our ability to utilize previously identified tax planning strategies that included the potential sale of certain non core operating assets to support the realization of our U.S. Federal deferred tax assets, since current year losses are heavily weighted in determining if sufficient income would exist in the carryfoward period to realize the benefits of the strategies. Outlook for the Company Although we continue to be concerned about foreclosure activity and access to financing, housing starts did improve in 2010 to 588,000 units. The negative trends impacting our business in the second half of 2010, including depressed new home construction, lower big ticket repair and remodel activity and commodity cost pressures, have continued into 2011. We expect a challenging business environment, particularly in the first half of 2011; we expect the second half of 2011 to be stronger. In addition to strategic rationalization and the continued emphasis on cash generation, we have identified, directed and encouraged initiatives at our business units that we expect will position us to benefit from future opportunities as the recovery takes shape. We have also led a focused effort to strengthen our brands and improve our ability to execute our business models. The implementation of the Masco Business System (MBS) across our business units provides a more disciplined approach to managing our businesses and has enhanced our long range planning process. MBS emphasizes five core capabilities: customer focus, innovation, lean, quality and talent, which we believe are fundamental to our long term success. MBS is already having a positive impact on our businesses as we enhance our understanding of customer and end consumer needs, improve product quality and incorporate sustainability into our operations and products. As a result, we believe we have a robust pipeline of innovative new products. In addition, we are also improving our operational performance by emphasizing process and productivity improvements, simplifying organizational structure, rationalizing supply chains and enhancing our talent management process. We believe and are confident that the long term fundamentals for the new home construction and home improvement markets continue to be positive. We believe that our strong financial position, together with our current strategy of investing in leadership brands, including KRAFTMAID and MERILLAT cabinets, DELTA and HANSGROHE faucets, BEHR paint and MILGARD windows, our continued focus on innovation and our commitment to lean principles, will allow us to drive long term growth and create value for our shareholders. 31 Table of Contents Business Segment and Geographic Area Results The following table sets forth our net sales and operating profit (loss) information by business segment and geographic area, dollars in millions. Percent Change 2010 2009 vs. vs. 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 Net Sales: Cabinets and Related Products $ 1,464 $ 1,674 $ 2,276 (13 )% (26)% Plumbing Products 2,692 2,564 3,002 5 % (15)% Installation and Other Services 1,147 1,256 1,861 (9 )% (33)% Decorative Architectural Products 1,693 1,714 1,629 (1 )% 5 % Other Specialty Products 596 584 716 2 % (18)% Total $ 7,592 $ 7,792 $ 9,484 (3 )% (18)% North America $ 5,929 $ 6,135 $ 7,482 (3 )% (18)% International, principally Europe 1,663 1,657 2,002 % (17)% Total $ 7,592 $ 7,792 $ 9,484 (3 )% (18)% 2010 2010(B) 2009 2009(B) 2008 2008(B) Operating Profit (Loss): (A) Cabinets and Related Products $ (250 ) $ (250 ) $ (64 ) $ (64 ) $ 4 $ 63 Plumbing Products 331 332 237 276 110 313 Installation and Other Services (834 ) (114 ) (131 ) (131 ) (46 ) 6 Decorative Architectural Products 345 345 375 375 299 299 Other Specialty Products 19 19 (199 ) 24 (124 ) 29 Total $ (389 ) $ 332 $ 218 $ 480 $ 243 $ 710 North America $ (543 ) $ 178 $ 93 $ 316 $ 493 $ 555 International, principally Europe 154 154 125 164 (250 ) 155 Total (389 ) 332 218 480 243 710 General corporate expense, net (110 ) (110 ) (140 ) (140 ) (144 ) (144) Charge for defined benefit curtailment (8 ) (8 ) Charge for litigation settlements (7 ) (7 ) (9 ) (9) Accelerated stock compensation expense (6 ) (6 ) Loss on corporate fixed assets, net (2 ) (2 ) Total operating profit (loss) $ (499 ) $ 222 $ 55 $ 317 $ 90 $ 557 Operating Profit (Loss) Margin: (A) Cabinets and Related Products (17.1 )% (17.1 )% (3.8 )% (3.8 )% .2 % 2.8% Plumbing Products 12.3 % 12.3 % 9.2 % 10.8 % 3.7 % 10.4% Installation and Other Services (72.7 )% (9.9 )% (10.4 )% (10.4 )% (2.5 )% .3% Decorative Architectural Products 20.4 % 20.4 % 21.9 % 21.9 % 18.4 % 18.4% Other Specialty Products 3.2 % 3.2 % (34.1 )% 4.1 % (17.3 )% 4.1% North America (9.2 )% 3.0 % 1.5 % 5.2 % 6.6 % 7.4% International, principally Europe 9.3 % 9.3 % 7.5 % 9.9 % (12.5 )% 7.7% Total (5.1 )% 4.4 % 2.8 % 6.2 % 2.6 % 7.5% Total operating profit (loss) margin, as reported (6.6 )% N/A .7 % N/A .9 % N/A (A) Before general corporate expense, net, charge for defined benefit plan curtailment, charge for litigation settlements, accelerated stock compensation expense, and loss on corporate fixed assets, net; see Note O to the consolidated financial statements. (B) Excluding impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets. The 2010 impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets were as follows: Plumbing Products $1 million; and Installation and other Services $720 million. The 2009 impairment charges for goodwill were as follows: Plumbing Products $39 million; and Other Specialty Products $223 million. The 2008 impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets were as follows: Cabinets and Related Products $59 million; Plumbing Products $203 million; Installation and Other Services $52 million; and Other Specialty Products $153 million. 32 Table of Contents Business Segment Results Discussion Changes in operating profit margins in the following Business Segment and Geographic Area Results discussion exclude general corporate expense, net, charge for defined benefit plan curtailment, charge for litigation settlements, accelerated stock compensation expense, loss on corporate fixed assets, net, and impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets in 2010, 2009 and 2008. Business Rationalizations and Other Initiatives Over the past several years, we have been focused on the strategic rationalization of our businesses, including business consolidations, plant closures, headcount reductions, system implementations and other cost savings initiatives. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we incurred net costs and charges of $208 million pre tax related to these initiatives. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we incurred net costs and charges of $94 million pre tax related to these initiatives. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred net costs and charges of $78 million pre tax related to these initiatives. As announced in February 2010, we have combined our Builder Cabinet Group and Retail Cabinet Group to form Masco Cabinetry. In 2010, we incurred costs and charges related to the integration of $20 million; in 2011, we expect to incur an additional $10 million of costs and charges related to the integration. In April 2010, Masco Cabinetry decided to discontinue the manufacture of ready to assemble and other non core in stock assembled cabinet product lines as they are not consistent with Masco Cabinetrys strategy of growth through brand building and innovation. These product lines had aggregate annual sales of approximately $200 million in 2009. We plan to close two manufacturing facilities associated with these products in the first half of 2011. In 2010, we incurred costs and charges related to the exit of these product lines of $84 million, including non cash charges of $69 million, principally related to accelerated depreciation for property, plant and equipment, and $15 million of other cash charges. In 2011, we expect to incur an additional $25 million of costs and charges related to the closure of the facilities associated with these product lines. In 2010, we also decided to close a cabinet manufacturing facility that had been previously idled; we incurred costs and charges related to the closure of $67 million. As a result of these actions within the Cabinets and Related Products segment, in 2010, we incurred pre tax $171 million of total costs and charges related to Masco Cabinetry integration, product line exit and facility closure. In total, as described above, we expect to incur an additional $35 million of costs and charges related to these actions in 2011. Based on current plans, we anticipate costs and charges related to our business rationalizations and other initiatives to approximate $65 million in 2011. We continue to evaluate our businesses and may implement additional rationalization programs based on changes in our markets which could result in further costs and charges. Cabinets and Related Products Sales Net sales of Cabinets and Related Products decreased in 2010 primarily due to lower sales volumes of North American cabinets, which reduced sales by approximately six percent compared to 2009. Sales in this segment in 2010 were also negatively affected by the planned exit of ready to assemble and other non core in stock assembled cabinet product lines, particle board and door product lines, which reduced sales by approximately four percent compared to 2009. Sales were also negatively affected by lower sales volume of International cabinets, which reduced sales in this segment by approximately three percent compared to 2009. A stronger U.S. dollar decreased sales by one percent in 2010 compared to 2009. Net sales in this segment decreased in 2009 primarily due to a decline in sales volume in the new home construction and retail markets, as well as a less favorable product mix, which combined to reduce sales by approximately 24 percent compared to 2008. A stronger U.S. dollar decreased sales by two percent in 2009 compared to 2008. 33 Table of Contents Net sales in this segment in 2008 were negatively affected by a decline in sales volume in the new home construction and retail markets, as well as a less favorable product mix and lower local currency sales of International operations. Operating Results Operating margins in the Cabinets and Related Products segment in 2010 were negatively affected by lower sales volume and the related under absorption of fixed costs, which reduced operating profit margins by approximately three percentage points. Operating profit margins in this segment in 2010 were also negatively affected by increased business rationalization expenses and a less favorable relationship between selling prices and commodity costs; such decreases more than offset the benefits associated with business rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives. Operating margins in this segment in 2009 were negatively affected by lower sales volume in the new home construction and retail markets and the related under absorption of fixed costs, as well as a less favorable product mix which, on a combined basis, reduced operating profit margins by approximately three percentage points compared to 2008. In 2009, operating profit margins in this segment were also negatively affected by increased plant closure and system implementation costs which were partially offset by the improved relationship between selling prices and commodity costs and the benefits associated with business rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives. Operating margins in this segment in 2008 were negatively affected by lower sales volume and the related under absorption of fixed costs and a less favorable product mix, as well as lower results of International operations included in this segment. Plumbing Products Sales Net sales of Plumbing Products increased in 2010 primarily due to a more favorable product mix to North American retailers and wholesalers, which increased sales by approximately two percent compared to 2009. Sales were also positively affected by increased selling prices, which increased sales by approximately two percent compared to 2009. In local currencies, sales of International operations increased sales in this segment by approximately three percent compared to 2009. Such increases were partially offset by lower sales volume to North American retailers and wholesalers, which reduced sales by one percent compared to 2009. A stronger U.S. dollar decreased sales by one percent in 2010 compared to 2009. Net sales in this segment decreased in 2009 and 2008 primarily due to lower sales volume to North American retailers and wholesalers, which reduced sales by approximately ten percent in 2009 compared to 2008. Reflecting the weakened global economy, net sales in this segment in 2009 and 2008 were also negatively impacted by lower local currency sales volume of International operations. A stronger U.S. dollar decreased sales by three percent in 2009 compared to 2008. Operating Results Operating margins in the Plumbing Products segment in 2010 were positively affected by a more favorable product mix and the positive relationship between selling prices and commodity costs and the benefits associated with business rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives. Operating margins in this segment in 2009 were positively affected by the improved relationship between selling prices and commodity costs, as well as a more favorable product mix and the benefits associated with business rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives. Operating margins in this segment in 2008 were negatively affected by the decline in North American and International sales volume; such declines were partially offset by net selling price increases. 34 Table of Contents Installation and Other Services Sales Net sales in the Installation and Other Services segment decreased in 2010 primarily due to lower sales volume related to reduced share in the new home construction market. Sales in this segment were also negatively affected by a downward trend in the size and content of new houses being constructed by our builder customers. Net sales in this segment decreased in 2009 and 2008, primarily due to significantly lower sales volume related to the decline in the new home construction market, as well as lower selling prices. Operating Results Operating margins in the Installation and Other Services segment in 2010 continue to be negatively affected by lower sales volume in the new home construction market and the related under absorption of fixed costs, as well as a less favorable relationship between selling prices and commodity costs. Additionally, investments in WellHomeSM negatively impacted this segment by approximately one percentage point. Such declines were partially offset by the benefits associated with business rationalization and other cost savings initiatives and lower system implementation costs in 2010. Operating margins in this segment in 2009 were negatively affected by lower sales volume and the related under absorption of fixed costs, selling price decreases and increased system implementation costs in 2009. Operating margins in this segment in 2008 were negatively affected by lower sales volume and the related under absorption of fixed costs, as well as decreased selling prices and increased bad debt expense; such declines were partially offset by material price decreases. Decorative Architectural Products Sales Net sales of Decorative Architectural Products decreased in 2010, primarily due to lower sales volume of builders hardware and lower selling prices of paints and stains. Such declines in 2010 were partially offset by a more favorable product mix of paints and stains, related to new product introductions. Net sales in this segment increased in 2009, primarily due to increased sales volume of paints and stains, which offset lower sales volume of builders hardware. Net sales in this segment in 2008 were negatively affected by lower sales volume of paints and stains and builders hardware, which more than offset selling price increases. Operating Results Operating margins in the Decorative Architectural Products segment in 2010 were negatively affected by a less favorable relationship between selling prices and commodity costs related to paints and stains, as well as lower sales volume of builders hardware. Such declines more than offset the benefit of a more favorable product mix of paints and stains, related to new product introductions. Operating margins in this segment in 2009 were positively affected by increased sales volume of paints and stains, which more than offset lower sales volume of builders hardware. The operating profit margins in this segment in 2009 also benefited from the improved relationship between selling prices and commodity costs related to paints and stains and builders hardware, as well as lower program costs related to builders hardware. Operating margins in this segment in 2008 were negatively affected by lower sales volume of paints and stains and builders hardware, increasing material costs throughout 2008 and program costs for builders hardware. Such declines more than offset the effect of selling price increases. 35 Table of Contents Other Specialty Products Sales Net sales of Other Specialty Products increased in 2010 primarily due to increased sales volume of windows in North America, principally related to the energy savings tax credit, which expired at the end of 2010, which increased sales in this segment by approximately one percent compared to 2009. Net sales were also positively affected by increased sales volume of staple gun tackers and other fastening tools, which increased sales in this segment by approximately one percent compared to 2009. Net sales in this segment in 2009 were negatively affected by lower sales volume of windows, selling price decreases and a less favorable product mix, which decreased sales in this segment by approximately 12 percent in 2009 compared to 2008. A stronger U.S. dollar decreased sales by three percent in 2009 compared to 2008. Net sales in this segment in 2008 were negatively affected by lower sales volume of windows, as well as a decline in the home improvement market. Operating Results Operating margins in the Other Specialty Products segment in 2010 reflect the negative effect of a less favorable relationship between selling prices and commodity costs and a less favorable windows product mix. Such declines offset the benefits associated with business rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives. Operating margins in this segment in 2009 reflect the benefits associated with business rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives which offset the negative effect of lower sales volume of windows and staple gun tackers and other fastening tools and the related under absorption of fixed costs, as well as a less favorable product mix. Operating margins in this segment in 2008 were negatively affected by lower sales volume and the related under absorption of fixed costs, increased plant closure costs and the lower results of International operations. Geographic Area Results Discussion North America Sales North American net sales in 2010 were negatively impacted by lower sales volume of installation and other services, cabinets, plumbing products, and builders hardware, which, in the aggregate, decreased sales by approximately four percent compared to 2009. Such declines were partially offset by a more favorable product mix of plumbing products and paints and stains, which increased sales by approximately one percent compared to 2009. North American net sales in 2009 were negatively affected by lower sales volume of installation and other services, cabinets and windows in the new home construction market which decreased sales from North American operations by approximately 12 percent in 2009 compared to 2008. In addition, North American net sales in 2009 were negatively affected by lower retail sales volume of cabinets, plumbing products, builders hardware and staple gun tackers and other fastening tools, which aggregated to a net decrease in North American net sales of approximately nine percent in 2009 compared to 2008. North American net sales in 2008 were negatively affected by lower sales volume of installation and other services, cabinets and windows and doors in the new home construction market. 36 Table of Contents Operating Results The declines in operating profit margins from North American operations in 2010 were primarily due to lower sales volume and the related under absorption of fixed costs and a less favorable relationship between selling prices and commodity costs, which decreased operating profit margins by two percentage point in 2010 compared to 2009. Operating profit margins were also negatively affected by increased business rationalization costs and charges in 2010 compared to 2009. The declines in operating profit margins from North American operations in 2009 were primarily due to sales volume declines and the related under absorption of fixed costs, selling price decreases and a less favorable product mix in new home construction markets, which decreased operating profit margins by one percentage point in 2009 compared to 2008. Operating profit margins were also negatively affected by increased rationalization costs and charges in 2009 compared to 2008. Such declines were partially offset by the improved relationship between selling prices and commodity costs for cabinets, plumbing products and paints and stains, as well as the benefits associated with business rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives. Operating profit margins from North American operations in 2008 were negatively affected by declines in new home construction and consumer spending, which negatively impacted the sales volume of our products. International, Principally Europe Sales Net sales from International operations increased in local currencies by approximately five percent compared to 2009, primarily due to increased sales volume and increased selling prices of International plumbing products and windows, offset by lower sales volume of International cabinets. A stronger U.S. dollar decreased International net sales by five percent in 2010 compared to 2009. Net sales from International operations decreased in 2009 primarily due to lower sales volume of plumbing products and cabinets, which reduced sales from International operations in local currencies by approximately 12 percent compared to 2008. Such declines in 2009 were partially offset by selling price increases. A stronger U.S. dollar decreased International net sales by seven percent in 2009 compared to 2008. Net sales from International operations in 2008 were negatively affected by lower sales volume of plumbing products and cabinets. Operating Results Operating profit margins from International operations in 2010 were negatively affected by a less favorable product mix, partially offset by the benefits associated with business rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives. Operating profit margins in 2009 were positively affected by the improved relationship between selling prices and commodity costs, as well as the benefits associated with business rationalizations and other cost savings initiatives. Operating profit margins in 2008 were negatively affected by lower sales volumes and the related under absorption of fixed costs, as well as increased severance and plant closure costs. 37 Table of Contents Other Matters Commitments and Contingencies Litigation Information regarding our legal proceedings is set forth in Note S to the consolidated financial statements. Other Commitments With respect to our investments in private equity funds, we had, at December 31, 2010, commitments to contribute up to $33 million of additional capital to such funds, representing our aggregate capital commitment to such funds less capital contributions made to date. We are contractually obligated to make additional capital contributions to these private equity funds upon receipt of a capital call from the private equity fund. We have no control over when or if the capital calls will occur. Capital calls are funded in cash and generally result in an increase in the carrying value of our investment in the private equity fund when paid. We enter into contracts, which include reasonable and customary indemnifications that are standard for the industries in which we operate. Such indemnifications include claims made against builders by homeowners for issues relating to our products and workmanship. In conjunction with divestitures and other transactions, we occasionally provide reasonable and customary indemnifications relating to various items, including: the enforceability of trademarks; legal and environmental issues; and provisions for sales returns. We have never had to pay a material amount related to these indemnifications, and we evaluate the probability that amounts may be incurred and we appropriately record an estimated liability when probable. 38 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table provides payment obligations related to current contracts at December 31, 2010, in millions: Payments Due by Period Less than 2 3 4 5 More than 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Other(D) Total Debt (A) $ 66 $ 1,010 $ 502 $ 2,520 $ $ 4,098 Interest (A) 249 425 364 870 1,908 Operating leases 75 76 43 51 245 Currently payable income taxes 7 7 Defined benefit plans 48 103 108 294 553 Private equity funds (B) 17 16 33 Post retirement obligations 1 1 2 4 8 Purchase commitments (C) 231 16 247 Uncertain tax positions, including interest and penalties (D) 5 89 94 Total $ 699 $ 1,647 $ 1,019 $ 3,739 $ 89 $ 7,193 (A) We assumed that all debt would be held to maturity, except for the Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Notes which have been classified as short term debt at December 31, 2010. See Note K to the consolidated financial statements for more information. (B) There is no schedule for the capital commitments to the private equity funds; such allocation was estimated. (C) Excludes contracts that do not require volume commitments and open or pending purchase orders. (D) Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows associated with uncertain tax positions, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate for the period beyond the next year in which cash settlements may occur with applicable tax authorities. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements. Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted new FASB guidance regarding how a company determines when an entity is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting and should be consolidated. The adoption of this guidance did not have any impact on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 39 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. We have considered the provisions of accounting guidance regarding disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments. We are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity costs in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to our marketable securities and other investments. We have limited involvement with derivative financial instruments and use such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and from time to time commodity fluctuations. See Note F to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our derivative instruments. At December 31, 2010, we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to manage exposure to currency fluctuations related primarily to the European euro and the U.S. dollar. At December 31, 2010, we have also entered into several contracts to manage our exposure to increases in the price of copper and zinc. At December 31, 2010, we performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 10 percent in foreign currency exchange rates, a 10 percent decline in the market value of our long term investments or a 10 percent change in commodity costs. Based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 40 Table of Contents 
 
