FILE:RL/RL-8K-20091001161249.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 28, 2009, Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation (the "Company") entered into an amended and restated employment agreement with Tracey T. Travis, the Company's current Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (the "Travis Agreement"). The term of the Travis Agreement is for three years, commencing on September 28, 2009 and terminating on the third anniversary of such date. Pursuant to the Travis Agreement, Ms. Travis will be entitled to an annual base salary of not less than $725,000 and will also be entitled to participate in any applicable annual bonus program that the Company maintains during the term of her employment. Ms. Travis is also eligible to participate in the Company's 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, and all employee benefit plans and arrangements of the Company for its senior executive officers.
Under the Travis Agreement, if the Company terminates Ms. Travis's employment for any reason other than death, disability or cause (as defined in the Travis Agreement), or Ms. Travis voluntarily terminates her employment for good reason (as defined in the Travis Agreement), Ms. Travis will be entitled to continue to receive, in accordance with the Company's normal payroll practices, an amount equal to her base salary for a severance period equal to the longer of the remaining term of the Travis Agreement or one year, plus an amount, payable at the end of the severance period, equal to the bonus that Ms. Travis received for the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which her employment terminates. In addition, Ms. Travis will be entitled to continue her participation during the severance period in any group medical or dental plans in which she participated prior to the termination of her employment.
If Ms. Travis voluntarily terminates her employment without good reason, or if the Company terminates her employment for cause, Ms. Travis will be entitled to receive only her base salary through the date of termination. If her employment terminates due to her death or disability, Ms. Travis or her estate will be entitled to receive all payments due to her through the date of her death or termination due to disability. In addition, if Ms. Travis's employment terminates due to her death or disability, or she terminates her employment due to retirement, Ms. Travis will be entitled to receive a pro-rated amount, based on the percentage of time that has elapsed during the applicable performance periods, of the unvested restricted performance share units held by her, which shall vest at the end of the three-year performance period from the date of the grant, subject to the Company's achievement of pre-established financial goals. For death or disability, unvested stock options continue to vest according to their original vesting schedule.
If the Company terminates Ms. Travis's employment without cause within 12 months following a change in control of the Company (as defined in the Travis Agreement), then in lieu of the foregoing amounts, she will be entitled to receive a lump sum amount, payable within 15 days after the termination of her employment, equal to twice the sum of her annual base salary and the bonus she received for the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which her employment terminates. In addition, any unvested options and unvested restricted performance share units held by Ms. Travis will immediately vest, and all vested options held by Ms. Travis will remain exercisable for six months.
Under the Travis Agreement, the above described amounts and any stock awards to be provided to her pursuant to the Company's plans are subject to her compliance with certain restrictive covenants. Any amounts due and payable to Ms. Travis upon termination of her employment will be subject to compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
The foregoing description of the Travis Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Travis Agreement which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made effective as of the 28th day of September, 2009 (the "Effective Date"), by and between Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), and Tracey Travis (the "Executive").
WHEREAS, the Executive has been employed with the Corporation pursuant to an Employment Agreement dated March 26, 2007 (the "2007 Employment Agreement"); and
WHEREAS, the Corporation and Executive wish to amend and restate such 2007 Employment Agreement effective as of the date hereof;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and premises contained herein, the parties hereby agree as follows:
1.1 .    The Corporation hereby agrees to employ the Executive, and the Executive hereby agrees to serve the Corporation, on the terms and conditions set forth herein. The employment of the Executive by the Corporation shall be effective as of the date hereof and continue until the close of business on the third anniversary of the Effective Date of this Agreement (the "Term"), unless terminated earlier in accordance with Article II hereof.
Employment Term
1.2 .    During the Term the Executive shall faithfully, and in conformity with the directions of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and any Committee thereof (the "Board") or the management of the Corporation ("Management"), perform the duties of her employment, and shall devote to the performance of such duties her full time and attention. During the Term the Executive shall serve in such position as the Board or Management may from time to time direct. During the Term, the Executive may engage in outside activities provided those activities do not conflict with the duties and responsibilities enumerated hereunder, and provided further that the Executive receives written approval in advance from Management for any outside business activity that may require significant expenditure of the Executive's time in which the Executive plans to become involved, whether or not such activity is pursued for profit. The Executive shall be excused from performing any services hereunder during periods of temporary incapacity and during vacations in accordance with the Corporation's disability and vacation policies.
Position and Duties
1.3 .    The Executive shall be employed at the principal offices of the Corporation located in New York, New York, except for required travel on the Corporation's business.
Place of Performance
 
1.4 .
Compensation and Related Matters
(a) .    In consideration of her services during the Term, the Corporation shall pay the Executive cash compensation at an annual rate of not less than seven hundred twenty-five thousand dollars ($725,000) ("Base Compensation"), less applicable withholdings. Executive's Base Compensation shall be subject to such increases as may be approved by the Board or Management. The Base Compensation shall be payable as current salary, in installments not less frequently than monthly, and at the same rate for any fraction of a month unexpired at the end of the Term.
Base Compensation
(b) .    During the Term, the Executive shall have the opportunity to earn an annual bonus in accordance with any annual bonus program the Corporation maintains that would be applicable to the Executive.
Bonus
(c) .    During the Term, the Executive shall be eligible to participate in the Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan (the "Incentive Plan"). All grants to the Executive of stock options and restricted performance share units ("RPSUs"), if any, are governed by the terms of the Incentive Plan and are subject, in all cases, to approval by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors in its sole discretion.
Stock Awards
(d) .    During the Term, the Corporation shall pay Executive a car allowance in the amount of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500) per month, less applicable withholdings.
Car Allowance
(e)     During the Term, the Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by the Executive in performing services hereunder, including all reasonable expenses of travel and living while away from home, that such expenses are incurred and accounted for in accordance with the policies and procedures established by the Corporation.
Expenses.
provided
(f) .    During the Term, the Executive shall be entitled to the number of vacation days in each fiscal year, and to compensation in respect of earned but unused vacation days, determined in accordance with the Corporation's vacation program. The Executive shall also be entitled to all paid holidays given by the Corporation to its employees.
Vacations
(g) .    The Executive shall be entitled to participate in all of the Corporation's employee benefit plans and programs in effect during the Term as would by their terms be applicable to the Executive, including, without limitation, any life insurance plan, medical insurance plan, dental care plan, accidental death and disability plan, financial counseling program and sick/personal leave program. The Corporation shall not make any changes in such plans or programs that would adversely affect the Executive's benefits thereunder, unless such change occurs pursuant to a plan or program applicable to other similarly situated employees of the Corporation and does not result in a proportionately greater reduction in the rights or benefits of the Executive as compared with other similarly situated employees of the Corporation. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, nothing paid to the Executive under any plan or program presently in effect or made available in the future shall be in lieu of the Base Compensation or any bonus payable under Sections 1.4(a) and 1.4(b) hereof.
Other Benefits
 
2.1 .    The Executive's employment may terminate prior to the expiration of the Term under the following circumstances:
Termination of Employment
(a) .    The Executive's employment shall terminate upon the Corporation notifying the Executive that her services will no longer be required.
Without Cause
(b) .    The Executive's employment shall terminate upon the Executive's death.
Death
(c) .    If, as a result of the Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness, the Executive shall have been absent and unable to perform the duties hereunder on a full-time basis for an entire period of six consecutive months, the Executive's employment may be terminated by the Corporation following such six-month period.
Disability
(d) .    The Corporation may terminate the Executive's employment for Cause. For purposes hereof, "Cause" shall mean:
Cause
(i)        deliberate or intentional failure by the Executive to substantially perform the material duties of the Executive hereunder (other than due to disability as defined in 2.1(c)); or
(ii)        deliberate or intentional act of fraud, embezzlement, theft, breach of fiduciary duty, dishonesty, or any other misconduct or any violation of law (other than a traffic violation) committed by the Executive; or
(iii)        intentional wrongful damage to material assets of the Corporation; or
(iv)        the Executive's intentional wrongful disclosure of confidential information of the Corporation or any of its affiliates; or
(v)        the Executive's intentional wrongful engagement in any competitive activity which would constitute a breach of this Agreement and/or of the Executive's duty of loyalty; or
(vi)        the Executive's intentional breach of any material employment policy of the Corporation; or
(vii)        performance by the Executive of her employment duties in a manner deemed by the Corporation, in its sole discretion, to be grossly negligent; or
 
(viii)        the commission of any act by the Executive, whether or not performed in the workplace, which subjects or, if publicly known, would be likely to subject the Corporation to public ridicule or embarrassment, or would likely be detrimental or damaging to the Corporation's reputation, goodwill, or relationships with its customers, suppliers, vendors, or employees.
No act, or failure to act, on the part of the Executive shall be deemed "intentional" if it was due primarily to an error in judgment or negligence, but shall be deemed "intentional" only if done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive not in good faith and without reasonable belief that her action or omission was in, or not opposed to, the best interest of the Corporation. Failure to meet performance standards or objectives of the Corporation shall not constitute Cause for purposes hereof.
(e) .    The Executive may voluntarily terminate the Executive's employment with the Corporation at any time, with or without Good Reason. For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" shall mean a termination of employment by the Executive within sixty (60) days following the occurrence of (A) a material diminution in or adverse alteration to Executive's title, base salary, position or duties, including no longer reporting to the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, or to the President & Chief Operating Officer, (B) the relocation of the Executive's principal office outside the area which comprises a fifty (50) mile radius from New York City, or (C) a failure of the Corporation to comply with any material provision of this Agreement provided that the events described in clauses (A), (B), and (C) above shall not constitute Good Reason (1) until the Executive provides written notice to the Corporation of the existence of such diminution, change, reduction, relocation or failure within thirty (30) days of its occurrence and (2) unless such diminution, change, reduction or failure (as applicable) has not been cured within thirty (30) days after written notice of such noncompliance has been given by the Executive to the Corporation.
Voluntary Termination
2.2 .    The date of termination shall be:
Date of Termination
(a) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Executive's death, the date of the Executive's death;
(b) if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's disability pursuant to Section 2.1(c) or by the Corporation pursuant to Sections 2.1(a) or 2.1(d), the date specified by the Corporation; and
(c) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Executive, the date on which the Executive notifies the Corporation of her termination.
2.3 .
Effect of Termination of Employment
(a) If the Executive's employment is terminated by the Corporation pursuant to Section 2.1(a), or if the Executive resigns for Good Reason pursuant to Section 2.1(e), the Executive shall only be entitled to the following:
(i)        .    Subject to Section 2.3(a)(v) and Section 4.1(a) hereof, the Corporation shall: (a) beginning with the first payroll period following the 30
Severance
th
day
 
following the date of termination of Executive's employment, continue to pay the Executive, in accordance with the Corporation's normal payroll practice, her Base Compensation, as in effect immediately prior to such termination of employment, for the longer of the balance of the Term or the one-year period commencing on the date of such termination (whichever period is applicable shall be referred to herein as the "Severance Period"), provided that the initial payment shall include Base Compensation amounts for all payroll periods from the date of termination through the date of such initial payment; and (b) pay to the Executive, on the last business day of the Severance Period, an amount equal to the bonus paid to the Executive for the most recently completed fiscal year prior to the fiscal year in which her employment is terminated. If the Corporation has not paid any such bonus to the Executive in such prior fiscal year, then the Corporation shall not be obligated to make any bonus payment to the Executive. Under no circumstances shall the Executive be entitled to any bonus payment for the fiscal year in which her employment is terminated. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in order to receive any severance benefits under this Section 2.3(a)(i), the Executive must sign and not timely revoke a release and waiver of claims against the Corporation, its successors, affiliates, and assigns, in a form acceptable to the Corporation on or prior to the 30
th
day following the date of termination of Executive's employment.
(ii)        .    The Executive's rights with respect to any stock options and RPSUs provided to the Executive by the Corporation shall be governed by the provisions of the Corporation's Incentive Plan and the respective award agreements, if any, under which such awards were granted, except as provided in Section 4.1(a).
Stock Awards
(iii)        .    The Executive shall continue to participate during the Severance Period in any group medical or dental insurance plan she participated in prior to the date of her termination, under substantially similar terms and conditions as an active employee; that participation in such group medical or dental insurance plan shall only continue for as long as permitted under COBRA and further, shall correspondingly cease at such time as the Executive (a) becomes eligible for a future employer's medical and/or dental insurance coverage (or would become eligible if the Executive did not waive coverage) or (b) violates any of the provisions of Article III as determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive may not continue to participate in such plans on a pre-tax or tax-favored basis.
Welfare Plan Coverages
provided
(iv)        .    Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it is specifically provided that the Executive shall not accrue additional benefits under any pension plan of the Corporation (whether or not qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) during the Severance Period.
Retirement Plans
(v)        .    Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, no amounts shall be payable pursuant to Section 2.3(a) or Section 4.1(a) unless the Executive's termination of employment constitutes a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 1.409A-1(h) of the Department of Treasury Regulations. If the Executive is determined to be a "specified employee" for purposes of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and the rules and regulations issued thereunder (the "Code"), then no payment that is payable under Sections 2.3(a)(i) or 4.1(a) hereof (the "Severance Payment") on account of Executive's "separation from service" shall be made before
Section 409A
 
the date that is at least six months after the Executive's "separation from service" (or if earlier, the date of the Executive's death) if and to the extent that the Severance Payment constitutes deferred compensation (or may be nonqualified deferred compensation) under Section 409A of the Code and such deferral is required to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. For the avoidance of doubt, no portion of the Severance Payment shall be delayed for six months after the Executive's "separation from service" if such portion (x) constitutes a "short term deferral" within the meaning of Section 1.409A-1(a)(4) of the Department of Treasury Regulations, or (y) (A) it is being paid due to the Corporation's termination of the Executive's employment without Cause or the Executive's termination of employment for Good Reason; (B) it does not exceed two times the lesser of (1) the Executive's annualized compensation from the Corporation for the calendar year prior to the calendar year in which the termination of the Executive's employment occurs, or (2) the maximum amount that may be taken into account under a qualified plan pursuant to Section 401(a)(17) of the Code for the year in which the Executive's employment terminates; and (C) the payment is required under this Agreement to be paid no later than the last day of the second calendar year following the calendar year in which the Executive incurs a "separation from service." For purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the Executive's right to receive installment payments pursuant to Section 2.3(a) shall be treated as a right to receive a series of separate and distinct payments. To the extent that any reimbursement of any expense under Section 1.4(e) or in-kind benefits provided under this Agreement are deemed to constitute taxable compensation to the Executive, such amounts will be reimbursed or provided no later than December 31 of the year following the year in which the expense was incurred. The amount of any such expenses reimbursed or in-kind benefits provided in one year shall not affect the expenses or in-kind benefits eligible for reimbursement or payment in any subsequent year, and the Executive's right to such reimbursement or payment of any such expenses will not be subject to liquidation or exchange for any other benefitThe determination of whether the Executive is a "specified employee" for purposes of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code as of the time of the Executive's separation from service shall made by the Corporation in accordance with the terms of Section 409A of the Code and applicable guidance thereunder (including without limitation Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(i) and any successor provision thereto).
.
(b) If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's death or disability, pursuant to Sections 2.1(b) or 2.1(c), the Executive (or the Executive's designee or estate) shall only be entitled to whatever welfare plans benefits are available to the Executive pursuant to the welfare plans the Executive participated in prior to such termination, and whatever stock awards may have been provided to the Executive by the Corporation the terms of which shall be governed by the provisions of the Corporation's Incentive Plan and the respective award agreements, if any, under which such stock awards were provided.
(c) If the Executive's employment is terminated by the Corporation for Cause or by the Executive without Good Reason (as defined in Section 2.1(e)), the Executive shall receive only that portion of the Executive's then current Base Compensation payable through the Executive's termination date. The Executive's rights with respect to any stock awards provided to the Executive by the Corporation shall be governed by the provisions of the Corporation's Incentive Plan and the respective award agreements, if any, under which such stock awards were provided.
 
3.1 .
Non-Compete
(a) The Corporation and the Executive acknowledge that: (i) the Corporation has a special interest in and derives significant benefit from the unique skills and experience of the Executive; (ii) the Executive will use and have access to proprietary and valuable Confidential Information (as defined in Section 3.2 hereof) during the course of the Executive's employment; and (iii) the agreements and covenants contained herein are essential to protect the business and goodwill of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, affiliates or licensees. Accordingly, except as hereinafter noted, the Executive covenants and agrees that during the Term, and for the remainder of such Term following the termination of Executive's employment, the Executive shall not provide any labor, work, services or assistance (whether as an officer, director, employee, partner, agent, owner, independent contractor, consultant, stockholder or otherwise) to a "Competing Business." For purposes hereof, "Competing Business" shall mean any business engaged in the designing, marketing or distribution of premium lifestyle products, including but not limited to apparel, home, accessories and fragrance products, which competes in any material respects with the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, affiliates or licensees, and shall include, without limitation, those brands and companies that the Corporation and the Executive have jointly designated in writing on the date hereof, which is incorporated herein by reference and which is attached as Schedule A, as being in competition with the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, affiliates or licensees as of the date hereof. Thus, Executive specifically acknowledges that Executive understands that, except as provided in Section 3.1(b) she may not become employed by any Competing Business in any capacity during the Term.
(b) The non-compete provisions of this Section shall no longer be applicable to Executive if she has been notified pursuant to Section 2.1(a) hereof that her services will no longer be required during the Term or if the Executive has terminated her employment for Good Reason pursuant to Section 2.1(e) or if the Corporation elects in its sole discretion not to extend the Term for any reason other than for Cause.
(c) It is acknowledged by the Executive that the Corporation has determined to relieve the Executive from any obligation of non-competition for periods after the Term, and/or if the Corporation terminates the Executive's employment under Section 2.1(a) or if the Executive has terminated her employment for Good Reason pursuant to Section 2.1(e) or if the Corporation elects in its sole discretion not to extend the Term for any reason other than for Cause. In consideration of that, and in consideration of all of the compensation provisions in this Agreement (including the potential for the award of stock options and/or RPSUs that may be made to the Executive), Executive agrees to the provisions of Section 3.1 and also agrees that the non-competition obligations imposed herein are fair and reasonable under all the circumstances.
3.2 .
Confidential Information
(a) The Corporation owns and has developed and compiled, and will own, develop and compile, certain proprietary techniques and confidential information as described
 
below which have great value to its business (referred to in this Agreement, collectively, as "Confidential Information"). Confidential Information includes not only information disclosed by the Corporation and/or its affiliates, subsidiaries and licensees to Executive, but also information developed or learned by Executive during the course of, or as a result of, employment hereunder, which information Executive acknowledges is and shall be the sole and exclusive property of the Corporation. Confidential Information includes all proprietary information that has or could have commercial value or other utility in the business in which the Corporation is engaged or contemplates engaging, and all proprietary information the unauthorized disclosure of which could be detrimental to the interests of the Corporation. Whether or not such information is specifically labeled as Confidential Information by the Corporation is not determinative. By way of example and without limitation, Confidential Information includes any and all information developed, obtained or owned by the Corporation and/or its subsidiaries, affiliates or licensees concerning trade secrets, techniques, know-how (including designs, plans, procedures, processes and research records), software, computer programs, innovations, discoveries, improvements, research, development, test results, reports, specifications, data, formats, marketing data and plans, business plans, strategies, forecasts, unpublished financial information, orders, agreements and other forms of documents, price and cost information, merchandising opportunities, expansion plans, designs, store plans, budgets, projections, customer, supplier and subcontractor identities, characteristics and agreements, and salary, staffing and employment information. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Confidential Information shall not in any event include (A) Executive's personal knowledge and know-how relating to merchandising and business techniques which Executive has developed over her career in the apparel business and of which Executive was aware prior to her employment, or (B) information which (i) was generally known or generally available to the public prior to its disclosure to Executive; (ii) becomes generally known or generally available to the public subsequent to disclosure to Executive through no wrongful act of any person or (iii) which Executive is required to disclose by applicable law or regulation (provided that Executive provides the Corporation with prior notice of the contemplated disclosure and reasonably cooperates with the Corporation at the Corporation's expense in seeking a protective order or other appropriate protection of such information).
(b) Executive acknowledges and agrees that in the performance of her duties hereunder the Corporation will from time to time disclose to Executive and entrust Executive with Confidential Information. Executive also acknowledges and agrees that the unauthorized disclosure of Confidential Information, among other things, may be prejudicial to the Corporation's interests, and an improper disclosure of trade secrets. Executive agrees that she shall not, directly or indirectly, use, make available, sell, disclose or otherwise communicate to any corporation, partnership, individual or other third party, other than in the course of her assigned duties and for the benefit of the Corporation, any Confidential Information, either during her Term of employment or thereafter.
(c) The Executive agrees that upon leaving the Corporation's employ, the Executive shall not take with the Executive any software, computer programs, disks, tapes, research, development, strategies, designs, reports, study, memoranda, books, papers, plans, information, letters, e-mails, or other documents or data reflecting any Confidential Information of the Corporation, its subsidiaries, affiliates or licensees.
 
(d) During the Term, Executive shall disclose to the Corporation all designs, inventions and business strategies or plans developed for the Corporation, including without limitation any process, operation, product or improvement. Executive agrees that all of the foregoing are and shall be the sole and exclusive property of the Corporation and that Executive shall at the Corporation's request and cost do whatever is necessary to secure the rights thereto, by patent, copyright or otherwise, to the Corporation
3.3 .    The Executive covenants and agrees that during the Term, and for the remainder of such Term following the termination of Executive's employment for any reason whatsoever hereunder, the Executive shall not directly or indirectly solicit or influence any other employee of the Corporation, or any of its subsidiaries, affiliates or licensees, to terminate such employee's employment with the Corporation, or any of its subsidiaries, affiliates or licensees, as the case may be, or to become employed by a Competing Business. As used herein, "solicit" shall include, without limitation, requesting, encouraging, enticing, assisting, or causing, directly or indirectly.
Non-Solicitation of Employees
3.4 .    The Executive agrees that during the Term and thereafter whether or not she is receiving any amounts pursuant to Sections 2.3 and 4.1, the Executive shall not make any statements or comments that reasonably could be considered to shed an adverse light on the business or reputation of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, affiliates or licensees, the Board or any officer of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, affiliates or licensees; provided, however, the foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) compliance with legal process or subpoena, or (ii) statements in response to inquiry from a court or regulatory body. The Corporation agrees that during the Term and thereafter, the Corporation shall not make any statements or comments that reasonably could be considered to shed an adverse light on the reputation of the Executive; provided, however, the foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) compliance with legal process or subpoena, or (ii) statements in response to an inquiry from a court or regulatory body.
Nondisparagement
3.5 .
Remedies
(a) The Executive acknowledges and agrees that in the event the Corporation reasonably determines that the Executive has breached any provision of this Article III, that such conduct will constitute a failure of the consideration for which stock awards had been previously granted to the Executive or could be awarded in the future to Executive, and notwithstanding the terms of any stock award agreement, plan document, or other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Corporation may in its sole discretion notify the Executive that all unexercised stock options, RPSUs and restricted stock units that Executive has are forfeited. Further, the Executive shall immediately forfeit the right to receive any further grants of or vest any further in any unvested stock options, unvested restricted stock units or unvested RPSUs of the Corporation at the time of such notice and Executive waives any right to assert that any such conduct by the Corporation violates any federal or state statute, case law or policy.
(b) If the Corporation reasonably determines that the Executive has breached any provision contained in this Article III, the Corporation shall have no further obligation to make any payment or provide any benefit whatsoever to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement, and may also recover from the Executive all such damages as it may be entitled
 
to at law or in equity. In addition, the Executive acknowledges that any such breach is likely to result in immediate and irreparable harm to the Corporation for which money damages are likely to be inadequate. Accordingly, the Executive consents to injunctive and other appropriate equitable relief upon the institution of proceedings therefor by the Corporation in order to protect the Corporation's rights hereunder. Such relief may include, without limitation, an injunction to prevent: (i) the breach or continuation of Executive's breach; (ii) the Executive from disclosing any trade secrets or Confidential Information (as defined in Section 3.2); (iii) any Competing Business from receiving from the Executive or using any such trade secrets or Confidential Information; and/or (iv) any such Competing Business from retaining or seeking to retain any employees of the Corporation.
3.6 The provisions of this Article III shall survive the termination of this Agreement and Executive's Term of employment.
4.1 .
Change in Control
(a) .    Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, if the Executive's employment is terminated within twelve (12) months following a Change in Control (as defined in Section 4.1(b) hereof) during the Term by the Corporation for any reason other than Cause, then:
Effect of a Change in Control
(i)        .    The Corporation shall pay to the Executive, in lieu of any amounts otherwise due to her under Section 2.3(a) hereof, within fifteen (15) days of the Executive's termination of employment, or within the timeframe required by Section 2.3(a)(v) hereof if applicable, a lump sum amount equal to two (2) times the sum of: (A) the Executive's Base Compensation, as in effect immediately prior to such termination of employment; and (B) the bonus paid to the Executive for the most recently completed fiscal year prior to the fiscal year in which her employment is terminated. Notwithstanding the foregoing, solely to the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A of the Code, a portion of such lump sum payment will not be payable at such time if the duration of the Severance Period that would have otherwise applied under Section 2.3(a)(i) (had a Change in Control not occurred during the twelve-month period prior to such termination of employment) would have extended beyond the end of the second calendar year following the calendar year in which such termination of employment occurs (any such period beyond the end of such second calendar year is the "Extended Severance Payment Period"). In addition, such other amounts that otherwise would have been payable to the Executive under Section 2.3(a)(i) had a Change in Control not occurred during the twelve (12) month period prior to such termination of employment, and that would have constituted nonqualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code, will also not be included as part of such lump sum payment. In such event, an amount equal to the aggregate installment payments that would have been payable during the Extended Severance Payment Period, and the amounts described in the preceding sentence, shall be deducted from the amount otherwise payable in a lump sum in accordance with the first sentence hereof. Such deducted amount shall, instead, be payable at the same time that, and in the same manner as, such payments would have been paid if the Executive's employment had been terminated pursuant to Section 2.3(a) hereof rather than within a twelve-month period following a Change in Control.
Severance
 
(ii)        .    Subject to Section 2.3(a)(v), the Executive shall immediately become vested in any unvested stock options granted to the Executive by the Corporation prior to the Change in Control and Executive will have six (6) months from the date of termination under this circumstance to exercise all vested options (but in no event later than the expiration date of such options). In addition, subject to Section 2.3(a)(v), any awards of RPSUs and restricted shares which are unvested shall be deemed vested immediately prior to such Change in Control.
Stock Awards
(b) .    For purposes hereof, a "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following:
Definition
(i) the sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition, in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation to any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Act")) other than Permitted Holders;
(ii) any person or group is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Act, except that a person shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all shares that any such person has the right to acquire, whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of more than 50 percent of the total voting power of the voting stock of the Corporation, including by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise; provided, however, that for purposes of this Agreement, the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (I) any acquisition by the Corporation or any Affiliate, (II) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Corporation or any Affiliate, (III) any acquisition by one or more of the Permitted Holders, or (IV) any acquisition which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of subsection (v) below;
(iii) during any period of twelve (12) consecutive months, Present and/or New Directors cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board;
(iv) the Permitted Holders' beneficial ownership of the total voting power of the voting stock of the Corporation falls below 30 percent and either Ralph Lauren is not nominated for a position on the Board of Directors, or he stands for election to the Board of Directors and is not elected;
(v) the consummation of a reorganization, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving the Corporation that requires the approval of the Corporation's stockholders, whether for such transaction or the issuance of securities in the transaction (a "Business Combination"), unless immediately following such Business Combination: (A) more than 50% of the total voting power of (x) the entity resulting from such Business Combination (the "Surviving Company"), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has beneficial ownership of sufficient voting securities eligible to elect a majority of the members of the board of directors
 
(or the analogous governing body) of the Surviving Company (the "Parent Company"), is represented by the shares of voting stock of the Corporation that were outstanding immediately prior to such Business Combination (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which the shares of voting stock of the Corporation were converted pursuant to such Business Combination), and such voting power among the holders thereof is in substantially the same proportion as the voting power was among the holders of the shares of voting stock of the Corporation that were outstanding immediately prior to the Business Combination, (B) no person (other than any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Surviving Company or the Parent Company, or one or more Permitted Holders), is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities eligible to elect members of the board of directors of the Parent Company (or the analogous governing body) (or, if there is no Parent Company, the Surviving Company) and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors (or the analogous governing body) of the Parent Company (or, if there is no Parent Company, the Surviving Company) following the consummation of the Business Combination were Board members at the time of the Board's approval of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Business Combination; or
(vi) the stockholders of the Corporation approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation.
For purposes of this Section 4.1(b), the following terms have the meanings indicated: "Permitted Holders" shall mean, as of the date of determination: (A) any and all of Ralph Lauren, his spouse, his siblings and their spouses, and descendants of them (whether natural or adopted) (collectively, the "Lauren Group"); and (B) any trust established and maintained primarily for the benefit of any member of the Lauren Group and any entity controlled by any member of the Lauren Group. "Present Directors" shall mean individuals who at the beginning of any one year period were members of the Board. "New Directors" shall mean any directors whose election by the Board or whose nomination for election by the shareholders of the Corporation was approved by a vote of a majority of the directors of the Corporation who, at the time of such vote, were either Present Directors or New Directors but excluding any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs solely as a result of an actual or threatened proxy contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a person other than the Board.
5.1 .    For the purposes of this Agreement, notices, demands and all other communications provided for in the Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered by hand or by facsimile or mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
Notice
If to the Executive:            Tracey Travis
                                            [Address Redacted]
 
or to such other address as any party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
5.2 .    No provision of this Agreement may be modified or waived except in a document signed by the Executive and the Corporation. This Agreement, along with any documents incorporated herein by reference, constitutes the entire agreement between the parties regarding their employment relationship and supersedes all prior agreements, promises, covenants, representations or warranties, including, without limitation, the Executive's 2007 Employment Agreement with the Corporation. To the extent that this Agreement is in any way inconsistent with any prior or contemporaneous stock award agreements between the parties, this Agreement shall control. No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party that are not set forth expressly in this Agreement. Any extensions or renewals of this Agreement must be in writing and must be agreed to by both the Corporation and the Executive. Absent such extensions or renewals, this Agreement and all of its terms and conditions, except for those provisions in Article III as specified therein, shall expire upon the end of the Term. If Executive continues to be employed by the Corporation beyond the Term, such employment shall be "at will."
Modification or Waiver; Entire Agreement; End of Term
5.3 .    The validity, interpretation, construction, performance, and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York without reference to New York's choice of law rules. In the event of any dispute, the Executive agrees to submit to the jurisdiction of any court sitting in Manhattan in New York State.
Governing Law
5.4 .    In the event the Executive's employment with the Corporation terminates for any reason, the Executive shall not be obligated to seek other employment following such termination and there shall be no offset of the payments or benefits set forth herein.
No Mitigation or Offset
5.5 .    All payments required to be made by the Corporation hereunder to the Executive or the Executive's estate or beneficiaries shall be subject to the withholding of such amounts as the Corporation may reasonably determine it should withhold pursuant to any applicable law.
Withholding
5.6 .    Each party shall bear its own attorney's fees and costs incurred in any action or dispute arising out of this Agreement and/or the employment relationship.
Attorney's Fees
5.7 .    Executive represents and warrants that she is not party to any agreement, contract, understanding, covenant, judgment or decree or under any obligation,
No Conflict
 
contractual or otherwise, with any other party that in any way restricts or adversely affects her ability to act for the Corporation in all of the respects contemplated hereby, including but not limited to any obligations to comply with any non-compete or non-solicitation provisions.
5.8 .    Each of the covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement are separate and independent covenants, each of which has been separately bargained for and the parties hereto intend that the provisions of each such covenant shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Should the whole or any part or provision of any such separate covenant be held or declared invalid, such invalidity shall not in any way affect the validity of any other such covenant or of any part or provision of the same covenant not also held or declared invalid. If any covenant shall be found to be invalid but would be valid if some part thereof were deleted or the period or area of application reduced, then such covenant shall apply with such minimum modification as may be necessary to make it valid and effective. The failure of either party at any time to require performance by the other party of any provision hereunder will in no way affect the right of that party thereafter to enforce the same, nor will it affect any other party's right to enforce the same, or to enforce any of the other provisions in this Agreement; nor will the waiver by either party of the breach of any provision hereof be taken or held to be a waiver of any prior or subsequent breach of such provision or as a waiver of the provision itself.
Enforceability
5.9 .    No right or interest to, or in, any payments shall be assignable by the Executive; , , that this provision shall not preclude the Executive from designating in writing one or more beneficiaries to receive any amount that may be payable after the Executive's death and shall not preclude the legal representative of the Executive's estate from assigning any right hereunder to the person or persons entitled thereto. If the Executive should die while any amounts would still be payable to the Executive hereunder, all such amounts shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to the Executive's written designee or, if there be no such designee, to the Executive's estate. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be enforceable by, the Executive, the Executive's heirs and legal representatives and the Corporation and its successors. The section headings shall not be taken into account for purposes of the construction of any provision of this Agreement.
Miscellaneous
provided
however
5.10 .    By signing this Agreement, Executive expressly acknowledges and agrees that (a) she has carefully read it and fully understands what it means; (b) she has been advised in writing to discuss this Agreement with an independent attorney of her own choosing before signing it and has had a reasonable opportunity to confer with her attorney and has discussed and reviewed this Agreement with her attorney prior to executing it and delivering it to the Corporation; (c) she has had answered to her satisfaction any questions she has with regard to the meaning and significance of any of the provisions of this Agreement; and (d) she has agreed to this Agreement knowingly and voluntarily of her own free will and was not subjected to any undue influence or duress, and assents to all the terms and conditions contained herein with the intent to be bound hereby.
Meaning of Signing This Agreement
5.11 .    The parties acknowledge and agree that, to the extent applicable, this Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with, and the parties agree to use their best efforts to achieve timely compliance with, Section 409A of the Code and
Compliance with Section 409A
 
the Department of Treasury Regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder ("Section 409A"), including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Effective Date. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, in the event that the Corporation determines that any compensation or benefits payable or provided hereunder may be subject to Section 409A, the Corporation reserves the right (without any obligation to do so or to indemnify the Executive for failure to do so) to adopt such limited amendments to this Agreement and appropriate policies and procedures, including amendments and policies with retroactive effect, that the Corporation reasonably determines are necessary or appropriate to (a) exempt the compensation and benefits payable under this Agreement from Section 409A and/or preserve the intended tax treatment of the compensation and benefits provided with respect to this Agreement or (b) comply with the requirements of Section 409A.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement effective as of the date and year first above written.
POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
 
 
 


