FILE:RL/RL-8K-20090805080745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION
 
13 OR 15(D) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)  August 5, 2009
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On August 5, 2009, Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation (the Company) reported its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended June 27, 2009. A copy of the press release issued by the Company concerning the foregoing is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Form 8-K, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished under Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of the general incorporation language of such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Polo Ralph Lauren Reports First Quarter Fiscal 2010 Results
 
 
New York (August 5, 2009)  Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation (NYSE: RL) today reported net income of $77 million, or $0.76 per diluted share, for the first quarter of Fiscal 2010, compared to net income of $95 million, or $0.93 per diluted share, for the first quarter of Fiscal 2009.
 
We continue to navigate well through uncertain times, said Ralph Lauren, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Each of our brands has a unique channel of distribution and is focused on a specific customer, enabling us to gain market share. Regardless of the near-term economic challenges, we continue to have a clear, compelling growth trajectory ahead of us and our Company has a longstanding track record of success, Mr. Lauren added.
 
The resilience of our first quarter profit margins demonstrates that we are executing sharply on matters within our control. We planned our business carefully and we maintain a disciplined approach to managing our operations around the world, said Roger Farah, President and Chief Operating Officer. The outlook for global consumer spending remains unpredictable and we are planning our business accordingly. While we remain cautious with our outlook, our brands are highly desired, we are in excellent financial condition and we remain committed to investing in our strategic growth objectives to support the long-term success of our Company.
 
First Quarter Fiscal 2010 Income Statement Review
 
Net Revenues. 
Net revenues for the first quarter of Fiscal 2010 were $1.0 billion, 8% below net revenues for the comparable period last year. The decline in net revenues primarily reflects lower domestic wholesale sales, a reduction in same-store sales at the Companys retail segment and an approximate 2% net unfavorable effect of foreign currency translation that more than offset the wholesale contribution of formerly licensed childrenswear and golf apparel products in Japan and high single digit constant currency growth in Europe.
 
 
 
 
Gross Profit.
Gross profit for the first quarter declined 6% to $601 million from $638 million in the first quarter of Fiscal 2009, although the gross profit rate increased 140 basis points to 58.7%. The expansion in the gross profit rate reflects improved wholesale and retail segment margins, particularly in Europe and Japan, as well as supply chain cost savings initiatives.
 
Operating Expenses.
Operating expenses declined 2% in the first quarter to $484 million, compared to $492 million in the first quarter of Fiscal 2009. Operating expenses as a percent of revenues were 47.3%, 310 basis points higher than last year, primarily as a result of lower sales and incremental expenses associated with newly acquired and emerging international businesses that were partially offset by Company-wide expense savings initiatives and a net favorable foreign currency effect.
 
Operating Income.
Operating income for the first quarter of Fiscal 2010 was $117 million, 20% below the prior year period, and the operating margin was 11.4%, 180 basis points below the first quarter of Fiscal 2009. The declines in operating income and the operating margin rate reflect lower sales volumes and higher operating expenses associated with business expansion that were partially offset by the higher gross profit rate discussed above.
 
 
 
 
Net Income and Diluted EPS.
Net income for the first quarter of Fiscal 2010 declined 19% to $77 million, compared to $95 million in the comparable period of Fiscal 2009, and net income per diluted share declined 18% to $0.76 per share from $0.93 last year. The declines in net income and net income per diluted share principally relate to the lower operating income discussed above that was partially offset by a lower effective tax rate of 33% in the first quarter of Fiscal 2010 compared to a 35% effective tax rate in the comparable period last year. The lower effective tax rate for the first quarter of Fiscal 2010 was primarily a result of favorable geographic income mix.
 
 
First Quarter Fiscal 2010 Balance Sheet Review
 
The Company ended the first quarter with $1.1 billion in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, or $671 million in cash and short-term investments net of debt (net cash), compared to $820 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and $414 million in net cash at the end of Fiscal 2009. The first quarter ended with inventory up 8% to $612 million from $568 million in the first quarter of Fiscal 2009. The year-over-year increase in inventory is primarily related to a quarterly shift in the timing of inventory receipts related to supply chain cost savings initiatives in addition to the incremental inventory assumed as a result of taking control of childrenswear and golf apparel products in Japan. The Company had $18 million in capital expenditures in the first quarter of Fiscal 2010, compared to $56 million in the prior year period.
 
Global Retail Store Network
 
During the first quarter, the Company opened two directly operated stores and closed three directly operated stores. At the end of the first quarter, the Company operated 325 stores with a total of approximately 2.5 million square feet compared to 317 stores with approximately 2.4 million square feet in the prior year period. The current retail group consists of 86 Ralph Lauren stores, 64 Club Monaco stores, 164 Polo factory stores and 11 Rugby stores. In addition, at the end of the first quarter, the Companys international licensing partners operated 96 Ralph Lauren stores and 65 Club Monaco stores and dedicated shops.
 
Fiscal 2010 Outlook
 
The Company expects consolidated net revenues for Fiscal 2010 to decline by a high single digit rate. In the second quarter of Fiscal 2010, the Company expects both wholesale revenues and comparable store sales to decline by a low double digit rate, including a net unfavorable foreign currency translation effect. The Company expects operating expenses for the second quarter of Fiscal 2010 to be modestly below those in the comparable prior year period. The full year Fiscal 2010 tax rate is estimated at 35%.
 
Conference Call
 
As previously announced, the Company will host a conference call and live online webcast today, Wednesday, August 5, 2009, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern. Listeners may access a live broadcast of the conference call on the Companys investor relations website at http://investor.ralphlauren.com or by dialing (719) 325-2199. To access the conference call, listeners should dial in by 8:45 a.m. Eastern and request to be connected to the Polo Ralph Lauren First Quarter Fiscal Year 2010 conference call.
 
An online archive of the broadcast will be available by accessing the Companys investor relations website at http://investor.ralphlauren.com. A telephone replay of the call will be available from 1:00 P.M. Eastern, Wednesday, August 5, 2009 through 1:00 P.M. Eastern, Tuesday, August 11, 2009 by dialing (719) 457-0820 and entering passcode 9429524.
 
 
 
ABOUT POLO RALPH LAUREN
Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation (NYSE: RL) is a leader in the design, marketing and distribution of premium lifestyle products in four categories: apparel, home, accessories and fragrances. For more than 40 years, the Company's reputation and distinctive image have been consistently developed across an expanding number of products, brands and international markets. The Company's brand names, which include Polo by Ralph Lauren, Ralph Lauren Purple Label, Ralph Lauren Collection, Black Label, Blue Label, Lauren by Ralph Lauren, RRL, RLX, Rugby, Ralph Lauren Childrenswear, American Living, Chaps and Club Monaco, constitute one of the world's most widely recognized families of consumer brands. For more information, go to http://investor.ralphlauren.com.
 
This press release and oral statements made from time to time by representatives of the Company contain certain "forward-looking statements" concerning current expectations about the Company's future results and condition, including revenues, store openings, gross margins, expenses and earnings. Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to materially differ include, among others, changes in the competitive marketplace, including the introduction of new products or pricing changes by our competitors, changes in the economy and other events leading to a reduction in discretionary consumer spending; risks associated with the Company's dependence on sales to a limited number of large department store customers, including risks related to extending credit to customers; risks associated with the Company's dependence on its licensing partners for a substantial portion of its net income and risks associated with a lack of operational and financial control over licensed businesses; risks associated with changes in social, political, economic and other conditions affecting foreign operations or sourcing (including foreign exchange fluctuations) and the possible adverse impact of changes in import restrictions; risks associated with uncertainty relating to the Company's ability to implement its growth strategies or its ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses; risks arising out of litigation or trademark conflicts, and other risk factors identified in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
CONTACTS:
Polo Ralph Lauren
Investor Relations
James Hurley
212-813-7862
 
Polo Ralph Lauren
Corporate Communications
Julie Berman
212-583-2262
 
SOURCE: Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation
 
POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
Prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
(In millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
Prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
(In millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
The net revenues and operating income for the periods ended June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008 for each segment were as follows:
 
 
 
Constant Currency Financial Measures
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
 
Same - Store Sales Data
 
 
 
 


