FILE:RL/RL-8K-20101110082227.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported) November 10, 2010
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
On November 10, 2010, Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation (the Company) reported its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended October 2, 2010.  A copy of the press release issued by the Company concerning the foregoing is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished under Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of the general incorporation language of such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Polo Ralph Lauren Reports Second Quarter Fiscal 2011 Results
 
 
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)November 10, 2010-- Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation (NYSE:RL) today reported net income of million, or per diluted share, for the second quarter of Fiscal 2011, compared to net income of million, or per diluted share, for the second quarter of Fiscal 2010.
$205
$2.09
$178
$1.75
Net income for the first six months of Fiscal 2011 rose to million from million in the comparable period last fiscal year. Net income per diluted share of in the first six months of Fiscal 2011 was greater than the achieved in the prior year period.
28%
$326
$254
$3.30
31%
$2.51
We are extremely pleased with our second quarter and first half performance, said Ralph Lauren, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  The customer is responding to the strength of our product offerings, our innovative and unique marketing and advertising platforms and the exceptional experience and service we provide.  We achieved several milestones over the past few months, from opening our two, stunning flagship stores on Madison Avenue, launching our first international digital flagship in the United Kingdom and introducing our first line of Lauren handbags.  We also made important progress integrating our Asian operations. All of these activities herald an exciting new era of opportunity for our Company.
With sales growing and operating profits increasing during the first half of the year, we are proud of our ability to deliver strong results even as we make substantial investments in our long-term strategic objectives, said Roger Farah, President and Chief Operating Officer.  Our targeted merchandising strategies and operational discipline drove better than expected performance, and we experienced well-balanced contributions from all products, channels and regions.  While we are still operating in the context of considerable macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainty, and we expect to encounter more intense sourcing cost and exchange rate headwi nds in the back half of the year, we are encouraged by our current business momentum heading into the holiday season.
12%
33%
Second Quarter and First Half Fiscal 2011 Income Statement Review
Net revenues for the second quarter of Fiscal 2011 were billion, greater than net revenues for the comparable period last year. The increase in net revenues primarily reflects higher global wholesale sales and growth in retail sales worldwide that was partially offset by an approximate net unfavorable effect of foreign currency trans lation.
Net Revenues.
$1.5
11%
1%
 
 
 
1
 
 
First half net revenues were
$2.
7
 billion, greater than the comparable period of Fiscal 2010. The higher net revenues primarily reflect higher domestic and European wholesale sales and growth in retail sales worldwide that were partially offset by an approximate 1% net unfavorable effect of foreign currency translation.
12%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
Gross profit of million for the second quarter was greater than the prior year period. The gross profit rate expanded basis points to from in the second quarter last year. The higher gross profit rate reflects improved retail segment margins worldwide, particularly in international markets.
Gross Profit.
$888
13%
90
58.0%
57.1%
Gross profit for the first half of Fiscal 2011 rose to billion. First half gross profit rate of was basis points greater than the prior year, primarily due to improved retail segment margins worldwide.
15%
$1.6
59.6%
180
 
Operating expenses rose in the second quarter to million from million in the second quarter of Fiscal 2010. Operating expense margin was basis points below the prior year period. The growth in operating expenses primarily reflects incremental costs associated with newly transitioned Asi an operations and continued investment in the Companys strategic growth initiatives. The lower operating expense margin comes as a result of strong sales growth and continued expense discipline.
Operating Expenses.
8%
$581
$539
37.9%, 130
 
Operating expenses in the first half of Fiscal 2011 were billion, greater than the prior year period. Operating expense margin was basis points below the first half of Fiscal 2010, as strong sales growth and continued expense discipline more than offset incremental costs associated with newly transitioned Asian operations and continued investment in the Companys strategic growth initiatives.
$1.1
9%
41.7%, 100
 
Operating income for the second quarter of Fiscal 2011 rose to million from million in the second quarter last year. The operating margin was representing a basis point improvement compared to the second quarter last year, primarily due to the higher gross profit margin and the leveraging of operating expenses described above and despite incremental expenses associated with business expansion and newly transitioned operations.
Operating Income.
25%
$307
$246
20.1%,
220
 
For the first half of Fiscal 2011, operating income increased to million from million in the first half of Fiscal 2010. Operating margin rate for the first six months of Fiscal 2011 was basis points greater than the prior year period.  The expansion in operating margin rate reflects double-digit sales growth, gross profit margin expansion and disciplined expense management that more than offset incremental expenses associated with newly transitioned operations and business e xpansion.
33%
$482
$363
17.9%, 280
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net income for the second quarter of Fiscal 2011 grew to million from million last year. Net income per diluted share rose to per share from last year. The growth in net income and diluted EPS results for the second quarter of Fiscal 2011 principally relates to the higher operating income discussed above that was partially offset by a higher effective tax rate of compared to in the prior year period.  The higher effective tax rate in the second quarter of Fiscal 2011 reflects the resolution of certain discrete tax
Net Income and Diluted EPS.
16%
$205
$178
19%
$2.09
$1.75
33%
27%
 
 
 
4
 
 
items
in the prior year period and a greater proportion of earnings generated in higher taxed jurisdictions this fiscal year.
Net income for the first six months of Fiscal 2011 increased to million from million last year. Net income per diluted share of in the first six months of Fiscal 2011 was greater than the earned in the prior year period. The growth in net income and diluted EPS results for the first half of Fiscal 2011 was partially offset by an effective tax rate of compared to in the prior year period, a function of the resolution of certain discrete tax items in the prior year and a greater proportion of earnings generated in higher taxed jurisdictions during the first half of Fiscal 2011.
28%
$326
$254
$3.30
31%
$2.51
31%
29%
Second Quarter Fiscal 2011 Balance Sheet Review
The Company ended the second quarter with million in cash and investments, or million in cash and investments net of debt (net cash), compared to million in cash and investments and million in net cash at the end of the second quarter of Fiscal 2010.
$997
$712
$970
$663
During the second quarter, the Company repurchased approximately million shares of Class A Common Stock, utilizing million of its authorized share repurchase programs, and has approximately million remaining under such programs. The Company had million in capital expenditures in the second quarter, compared to million in the prior year period. The second quarter ended with inventory up to million from million in the second quarter of last year. Excluding the incremental inventory to support newly transitioned Asian operations, consolidated inventory rose in the second quarter of Fiscal 2011 compared to the comparable period last year, reflecting the early receipt of goods to support anticipated sales growth in the fiscal third quarter.  The Companys return on equity for the last twelve month period ending with the second quarter of Fiscal 2011 was and its return on investment was for the same time frame.
1.2
$100
$469
$55
$35
20%
$733
$610
14%
18%
38%
Global Retail Store Network
During the second quarter, the Company opened directly operated freestanding stores. Over the last twelve months, the Company has opened directly operated stores, closed directly operated stores and assumed control of formerly licensed stores. At the end of the second quarter, the Company operated freestanding stores and concession shop locations worldwide compared to freestanding stores and concession shop locat ions in the comparable prior year period. The freestanding store network was comprised of Ralph Lauren stores, Club Monaco stores, Polo factory stores and Rugby stores, and the Company had concession shop locations throughout Asia. In addition to Company-operated locations, international licensing partners operated Ralph Lauren stores and Club Monaco stores and dedicated shops at the end of the second quarte r.
eight
24
seven
18
664
531
108
63
180
12
301
58
60
 
 
 
5
 
 
Fiscal 2011 Outlook
In the third quarter of Fiscal 2011, the Company expects consolidated revenues to increase at a high teens percent rate. Wholesale revenues are expected to grow at a mid teens rate in the third quarter and comparable store sales are projected to increase by a mid single-digit rate. The Company expects the operating margin for the third quarter of Fiscal 2011 to be approximately 100 basis points below that in the comparable prior year period, primarily due to higher cost of goods, net unfavorable foreign currency effects and increased investment in strategic growth initiatives.
Fiscal 2011 is a 52-week period and compares to a 53-week duration for Fiscal 2010. Due to the stronger than expected second quarter revenues, the Company now expects consolidated revenues for Fiscal 2011 to increase by a  low double-digit percentage, including a net unfavorable foreign currency translation effect. The Company expects its operating margin for Fiscal 2011 to be approximately 50 basis points below the prior year level. In the second half of Fiscal 2011, the Company expects its operating profit margins to reflect increased investment in strategic growth initiatives, including transaction and other costs associated with the transition of South Korean operations, as well as progressive cost of goods inflation and net unfavorable foreign currency effects. The full year Fiscal 2011 tax rate continues to be estimated at 34%.
Conference Call
As previously announced, the Company will host a conference call and live online webcast today, Wednesday, November 10, 2010, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern. Listeners may access a live broadcast of the conference call on the Companys investor relations website at or by dialing 719-457-2643. To access the conference call, listeners should dial in by 8:45 a.m. Eastern and request to be connected to the Polo Ralph Lauren Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 conference call.
http://investor.ralphlauren.com
An online archive of the broadcast will be available by accessing the Companys investor relations website at . A telephone replay of the call will be available from 1:00 P.M. Eastern, Wednesday, November 10, 2010 through 1:00 P.M. Eastern, Tuesday, November 16, 2010 by dialing 719-457-0820 and entering passcode 8932664.
http://investor.ralphlauren.com
ABOUT POLO RALPH LAUREN
Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation (NYSE: RL) is a leader in the design, marketing and distribution of premium lifestyle products in four categories: apparel, home, accessories and fragrances. For more than 42 years, Polos reputation and distinctive image have been consistently developed across an expanding number of
 
 
 
6
 
 
products, brands and international markets. The Companys brand names, which include Polo by Ralph Lauren, Ralph Lauren Purple Label, Ralph Lauren Collection, Black Label, Blue Label, Lauren by Ralph Lauren, RRL, RLX, Rugby, Ralph Lauren Childrenswear, American Living, Chaps and Club Monaco, constitute one of the worlds most widely recognized families of consumer brands. For more information, go to .
http://investor.ralphlauren.com
This press release and oral statements made from time to time by representatives of the Company contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward looking statements are made concerning current expectations about the Companys future results and condition, including revenues, store openings, gross margins, expenses and earnings. Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to materially differ include, among others, changes in the competitive marketplace, including the introduction of new products or pricing changes by our competitors, changes in the economy and other events leading to a reduction in discretionary consumer spending; risks associated with the Companys dependen ce on sales to a limited number of large department store customers, including risks related to extending credit to customers; risks associated with the Companys dependence on its licensing partners for a portion of its net income and risks associated with a lack of operational and financial control over licensed businesses; risks associated with changes in social, political, economic and other conditions affecting foreign operations or sourcing (including foreign exchange fluctuations) and the possible adverse impact of changes in import restrictions; risks associated with increased labor costs and/or for raw materials; risks associated with our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; risks associated with uncertainty relating to the Companys ability to implement its growth strategies or its ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses; risks arising out of litigation or trademark conflicts, and other risk factors identified in the Companys Annual Report on For m 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information set forth below reflects the adjustments made to reclassify segment level data related to the Companys concession shop arrangements to its Retail segment from its Wholesale segment.
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
Polo Ralph Lauren is a global company that reports its financial information in U.S. dollars, in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations affect the amounts reported by the Company in U.S. dollars because the underlying currencies in which the Company transacts change in value over time compared to the U.S. dollar. These rate fluctuations can have a significant effect on reported operating results. As a supplement to its reported operating results, the Company presents constant currency financial information, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Company uses constant currency information to provide a framework to assess how its businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company believes this information is useful to investors to facilitate comparisons of operating results and better identify trends in its businesses. These constant currency performance measures should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of or superior to, the Companys operating performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
SOURCE: Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation
 
Polo Ralph Lauren
Investor Relations
James Hurley, 212-813-7862
or
Corporate Communications
Julie Berman, 212-583-2262
 
 
12
 
 


