FILE:RL/RL-8K-20120713170754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TheRalph Lauren Corporation (the Company) has authorized the granting of an additional type of restricted performance share unit award (RPSUs)Effective beginning in fiscal year 2013, the Company will grant this additional type of RPSU award (Cliff/TSR RPSU) with a three-year cliff vesting based onand also
Compensation & Organizational Development Committee (the Compensation Committee) of the board of directors of
under the Companys 2010 Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan.  
the attainment by the Company of a level of cumulative net earnings during such performance period established by the Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion,
subject to an additional relative performance metric  a total shareholder return modifier (TSR Modifier).  Under the terms of the Cliff/TSR RPSUs, applicable threshold, target and maximum levels of Company cumulative net earnings performance are established at the beginning of the applicable three-year performance period, and participants shall be entitled to vest in and receive payment with respect to a percentage of such Cliff/TSR RPSUs as set forth below:
Vesting is interpolated for performance between 70% - 110% of target.
No payout will be earned for cumulative net earnings performance below the Threshold level. At the end of the applicable three-year performance period, the actual number of Cliff/TSR RPSUs earned based on cumulative net earnings level attained as set forth above will be adjusted by the TSR Modifier. The TSR Modifier is based on the relative performance of the Companys stock price (Relative TSR), which measures the performance of the Companys share price and dividends compared to the TSR generated by the S&P 500 during the applicable three-year performance period.  TSR shall be measured by share price appreciation plus dividends reinvested, with starting and ending share prices being based on the average closing prices for the 20 trading days ending immediately prior to the beginning and end of the three year performance period.  At the end of the applicable three-year performance period, the Compensation Committee will adjust the final payout for each Cliff/TSR RPSU award by the amount of the TSR Modifier as set forth below:
 
There shall be no interpolation for performance between identified Relative TSR performance levels.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Cliff Restricted Performance Share Unit with TSR Modifier Award Overview containing the standard terms of restricted performance share awards under the 2010 Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cliff Restricted Performance Share Unit with TSR
Modifier Award
 
Fiscal 2013  Overview
July 13, 2012
 
 
 
This Overview is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Memorandum to Participants in the Ralph Lauren Corporation 2010 Long-Term Stock Incentive Planand to the Plan itself.  Copies of the Memorandum and the Plan are available online at or from your Human Resources Department.
 
http://totalrewards.ralphlauren.com
OVERVIEW
 
The Ralph Lauren Corporation (the Company) 2010 Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan) authorizes the Compensation & Organizational Development Committee of the Board of Directors (the Compensation Committee) to grant equity awards to officers and other employees of the Company and its
Subsidiaries and Affiliates.
 
As determined by the Compensation Committee, the Company may grant one or more types of Restricted Performance Share Unit awards (RPSUs).  This Overview describes an additional type of RPSU award, effective beginning in fiscal year 2013, that has three-year cliff vesting with a Total Shareholder Return modifier (Cliff RPSU with TSR Modifier).  The term cliff vesting is used since all units in a given Cliff RPSU with TSR Modifier award are eligible to vest at the same time.
 
A Cliff RPSU with TSR Modifier award provides a participant the opportunityto receive shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock (traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RL) at a later date contingent upon achievement of performance goals over a specified period, generally three fiscal years, and contingent upon continued service with the Company.
 
 
AWARD OBJECTIVES
 
Objectives of RPSUs, including Cliff RPSUs with TSR Modifier, are to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PLAN ADMINISTRATION
 
The Companys Human Resources Department administers the program and Merrill Lynch Wealth Management (Merrill Lynch) is the recordkeeper.  Participants must have an open brokerage account at Merrill Lynch in order to facilitate distribution of shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock upon the vesting of Cliff RPSUs with TSR Modifier.  To open a brokerage account, or for questions regarding your account and account transactions, contact Merrill Lynch at (609) 818-8908 or (877) 765-7656.
 
The Companys Board of Directors reserves the right to amend, modify or terminate the Plan, subject to stockholder approval, if required.  No such amendment to the Plan would adversely affect any Cliff RPSU with TSR Modifier awards then outstanding.
 
Nothing contained herein may be construed as creating a promise of future benefits or a binding contract with the Company.  Further, an individuals employment continues to be at will, subject to any applicable employment agreement.
 
For questions regarding the Plan and its provisions, contact Human Resources.
 
ELIGIBILITY FOR GRANT
 
Equity awards, including Cliff RPSU with TSR Modifier awards, may be granted annually to designated, key executives who have a significant impact on the strategic direction and business results of the Company, and who are actively employed on April 1 of the year when the grant is made.
 
Guidelines have been established for the number and type of equity awards that eligible participants may receive.  The guidelines reflect a positions scope, accountability and impact on the organization, and may also reflect changes in the value of the Companys Class A Common Stock.
Please note that the guidelines do not constitute a guarantee that any specific individual will receive an equity award in any given or subsequent year, or guarantee the type, value, or size of any grant, if a grant is made.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PERFORMANCE MEASURES FOR CLIFF VESTING
 
The Companys performance measure(s) and TSR Modifier are set by the Compensation Committee at the time of grant.  The performance measure or measures will be taken from a list of performance criteria set forth in the Plan. Such measure(s) may include, for example, one or more of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The TSR Modifier is based on the Companys total shareholders return over the performance period compared to the TSR of the companies in the S&P 500 index for the same period.  TSR shall be measured by share price appreciation, plus dividends reinvested, with starting and ending share prices being based on the average closing prices for the 20 trading days ending immediately prior to the beginning and end of the three year performance period.
 
 
STRUCTURE OF GRANTS AND PAYOUT SCHEDULE
 
The target number of units in a Cliff RPSU with TSR Modifier award is set at the grant date. Applicable Threshold, Target and Maximum levels of Company financial performance are established at the beginning of the performance period.  After the number of shares earned based on the financial performance measure is determined, the relative TSR modifier may either increase or decrease the number of shares earned from +25% to -25%.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The shares will be modified based on the TSR performance as shown in the charts below.
 
TSR MODIFIER AND PAYOUT ADJUSTMENT
 
 
EFFECT OF TSR MODIFIER ON TOTAL PAYOUT
 
 
 
 
Once a Cliff RPSU with TSR Modifier award is granted, the performance measure (s), performance goals, vesting and payout schedule will not be modified during the term for that particular award.  However, in determining performance against the goal, the Companys results may be adjusted to exclude the effects of certain events and transactions as specified by the Compensation Committee at the time of grant.  The TSR Modifier will not be subject to any adjustment.  For any future awards, the Compensation Committee may change the performance measure(s), goals, vesting and payout schedule(s).
 
 
 
 
 
 
FISCAL 2013 GRANT PERFORMANCE MEASURE, PERFORMANCE LEVELS AND VESTING
 
Cumulative Net Earnings for fiscal years 2013-2015.
The performance measure for fiscal 2013 Cliff RPSU with TSR Modifier awards is
  The TSR Modifier is based on the Companys TSR over the 2013-2015 fiscal year performance period.  Vesting of Cliff RPSUs with TSR Modifier, and the distribution of the Companys Class A Common Stock, will occur as soon as administratively practical following certification of achievement of the performance goals and relative TSR performance by the Compensation Committee.  The vesting date typically occurs in June of each year, but may be earlier or later.
 
will be distributed to participants upon the vesting of Cliff RPSUs with TSR Modifier. Upon vesting, the participant will own the shares and as a shareholder of the Companys Class A Common Stock, will have voting rights and will receive dividends on such shares.  Prior to the vesting date, dividends are not earned on Cliff RPSUs with TSR Modifier and the participant does not have voting rights. If performance is below Threshold at the end of the performance period, all Cliff RPSUs with TSR Modifier granted for that award will be forfeited.
If Threshold or better performance is achieved, and the participant has had continuous service with the Company through the vesting date, shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock
 
 
Cliff RPSUs with TSR Modifier granted in fiscal 2013 are scheduled to vest after fiscal 2015, subject to the Companys achievement of the cumulative performance goals specified, and the participants continuous service with the Company.
EXAMPLES OF PERFORMANCE LEVEL, VESTING AND PAYOUT OF FY13 GRANT
1
 
 
1  
FY13  FY15 Performance Period
 
Examples are hypothetical and not a forecast of future performance or payout percentages
2  
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the and in many other jurisdictions, vesting of RPSUs and the delivery of shares of Class A Common Stock is a taxable event.  When shares are distributed, a portion of the shares are withheld to satisfy withholding requirements, and the net shares are delivered to participants in their Merrill Lynch account.
U.S.
 
VALUE OF RESTRICTED PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS
 
If Threshold or better performance against the applicable goal is achieved, Cliff RPSUs with TSR Modifier offer the opportunity to recognize value in several ways:
 
The example below illustrates the opportunity for gains in the value of the award at various Company Class A Common Stock prices.
 
Note: Value is before tax and a portion of the shares will be withheld to satisfy required tax withholding. 
Example is hypothetical and is not a forecast of growth in the Companys Class A Common Stock price.
If performance calculation results in fractional shares, the fractional shares will be paid in cash.
 
 
 
 
 
 
OF SHARES SUBSEQUENT TO DISTRIBUTION
SALE
 
Shares received from the vesting of a Cliff RPSU with TSR Modifier award may be sold subject to the Companys trading restrictions as set forth in the Companys Securities Trading policy beginning on page 9.  In certain circumstances, certain Executive Officers may sell shares pursuant to Rule 144 or another applicable exemption under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
In the and in many other jurisdictions, sale of such shares after vesting has tax implications. Contact your financial advisor for important information about how a subsequent sale of shares impacts you. Once Cliff RPSUs with TSR Modifier awards have vested and you receive shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock from the vesting of a particular Cliff RPSU with TSR Modifier award, you retain all rights to those shares, regardless of your employment status with the Company.
U.S.
IF YOU LEAVE THE COMPANY
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INSIDER TRADING
 
As provided in the Ralph Lauren (The Company) Employee Handbook, employees are prohibited by law from buying or selling securities if an employee has or is aware of any about the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates.  This is commonly referred to as insider information.  Material, non-public information is any information that has not been disclosed to the public that could affect the price of Company Common Stock -- either positively or negatively -- or affect a persons decision to buy, hold or sell securities.
material, non-public information
 
 
Examples of what might be considered insider information include but are not limited to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These insider-trading rules are applicable to employees of Ralph Lauren and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates, worldwide.
 
COMPANY BLACKOUT PERIODS
 
To avoid even the appearance of insider trading, our Companys Securities Trading policy prohibits members of the Board of Directors,  all employees and their Related Parties (as such term is defined in the Companys Securities Trading Policy) from making trades involving stock of the Company during certain blackout periods.   These blackout periods generally begin two weeks before the end of each of our fiscal quarters and continue through one trading day after the Company issues its earnings release for the fiscal quarter or year just ended.  If the earnings release is issued before the opening of the market on a trading day, trading may begin the next day.  The blackout periods are announced at the start of each year.  The Company may prohibit trading of the Companys stock at any time it deems such trading to be inappropriate, even outside the regular blackout periods.  Individuals who receive a specific notification prohibiting them from trading the Companys stock should note that such notification takes precedence over pre-announced blackout periods.  In addition, members of the Board of Directors, Officers (any employee who is a Vice President or above), and all employees in the Finance and Legal departments must clear all trades with the Corporate Counsel- or their designee - at all times.
This prohibition covers all transactions in the Companys securities, including buying or selling shares, including shares of Class A Common Stock received upon the vesting of RPSUs.
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL PROHIBITED TRANSACTIONS
 
Because we believe it is inappropriate for any Company personnel to engage in short-term or speculative transactions involving the Companys Common Stock, it is Company policy that employees do not engage in any of the following activities with respect to the securities of the Company:
 
CLEARANCE OF ALL TRADES BY DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND OTHER KEY PERSONNEL
 
 
 
COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A 
 
To the extent applicable, the Plan shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Department of Treasury Regulations and other interpretive guidance issued hereunder (Section 409A).  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, it is intended that this Plan comply with Section 409A and all provision of this Plan shall be construed and interpreted in a manner consistent with the requirements for avoiding taxes or penalties under Section 409A.  Each Participant is solely responsible and liable for the satisfaction of all taxes and penalties that may be imposed on or in respect of such Participant in connection with this Plan or any other plan maintained by the Company (including any taxes and penalties under Section 409A), and neither the Company nor any Affiliate shall have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold such Participant (or any beneficiary) harmless from any or all of such taxes or penalties.
In the event of any discrepancy between this Cliff  RPSU with TSR Modifier Overview and either the Plan or the provisions under which the Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee, the Plan and the determination of the Compensation Committee will govern, as applicable.  This Overview is qualified in its entirety based on the determinations, interpretations and other decisions made within the sole discretion of the Compensation Committee.
 
 
 
 
 


