FILE:RL/RL-8K-20121102081137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported) November 2, 2012
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 2, 2012, Ralph Lauren Corporation (the Company) reported its results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2012.  A copy of the press release issued by the Company concerning the foregoing is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the accompanying exhibit, is being furnished under Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of the general incorporation language of such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Ralph Lauren Reports Better-Than-Expected Second Quarter Fiscal 2013 Results
 
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)2, 2012-- Ralph Lauren Corporation (NYSE:RL) today reported net income of million, or per diluted share, for the second quarter of Fiscal 2013, compared to net income of million, or per diluted share, for the second quarter of Fiscal 2012.  Net income and net income per diluted share for the second quarter of Fiscal 2013 include the net negative impact of an approximate million one-time discrete tax item.
November
$214
$2.29
$233
$2.46
$15
 
Our year-to-date results affirm the tremendous resilience of our business, said Ralph Lauren, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. We continue to make excellent progress on our long-term growth objectives as we invest along many dimensions, including new stores and e-commerce platforms and emerging merchandise categories and regions.  Our clarity of vision and purpose has us focused on the most compelling opportunities that we believe will create significant shareholder value over the long term.
 
Farah, President and Chief Operating Officer.  In the context of a more challenging operating environment, and on top of double-digit sales and profit gains in the prior two years, disciplined execution enabled us to strengthen the margin structure of our business once again. While we expect continued margin improvement in the back half of the year, macroeconomic conditions lead us to be incrementally more cautious on near-term customer demand trends worldwide. Notwithstanding these macroeconomic challenges, the desirability of the Ralph Lauren brand is undeniable and we are well positioned for the upcoming Holiday season.
I am proud of our better-than-expected second quarter and first half results, said Roger
 
Second Quarter Fiscal 2013 Income Statement Review
 
Net revenues for the second quarter
Net Revenues.
of Fiscal 2013 were billion, below the comparable period last year. The decline in net revenues primarily reflects a planned contraction in wholesale shipments that was partially offset by continued retail segment expansion. Excluding the impact of strategic decisions to discontinue American Living and store closures associated with the Companys Greater China network repositioning efforts, in addition to the net negative impact from foreign currency translation, net revenues increased approximately in the second quarter.
$1.9
2%
3%
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross profit for the second
Gross Profit.
quarter of Fiscal 2013 increased to billion and gross profit margin improved basis points to . The higher gross profit margin was primarily driven by lower input costs, beneficial channel mix and operational discipline.
2%
$1.1
220
58.8%
 
Operating expenses rose in the second quarter to million from million in the second quarter of Fiscal 2012. The growth in operating expenses primarily reflects continued investment in the Companys long-term strategic growth initiatives; increased marketing and advertising expense during the quarter; and increased retail channel mix compared to the prior year period. Operating expense rate was , basis points above the prior year period.
Operating Expenses.
3%
$747
$728
40.1%
190
 
Operating income for the second quarter of Fiscal 2013 was million, below the prior year. Operating margin was basis points greater than the second quarter last year, primarily due to the higher gross profit margin that was partially offset by the higher operating expense rate.
Operating Income.
$348
1%
18.7%, 30
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
Net
Income and Diluted EPS.
 Net income for the second quarter of Fiscal 2013 was million, below the million achieved last year. Net income per diluted share declined to from last year.  The decline in net income and diluted EPS results for the second quarter of Fiscal 2013 principally relates to a higher effective tax rate of compared to in the prior year period.  The higher effective tax rate is related to the net negative impact of an approximate million one-time discrete tax item.
$214
8%
$233
7%
$2.29
$2.46
38%
33%
$15
 
Second Quarter Fiscal 2013 Balance Sheet Review
The Company ended the second quarter with billion in cash and investments, or million in cash and investments net of debt (net cash), compared to million in cash and investments and million in net cash at the end of the second quarter of Fiscal 2012. 
$1.1
$832
$979
$606
The Company had million in capital expenditures in the second quarter, compared to million in the prior year period. The second quarter ended with inventory up to billion from million in the second quarter of last year.
$55
$53
7%
$1.1
$988
 
Global Retail Store Network
The Company ended the second quarter of Fiscal 2013 with directly operated stores, comprised of Ralph Lauren stores, Club Monaco stores, Polo factory stores and Rugby stores. The Company also operated concession shop locations worldwide at the end of the second quarter. In addition to Company-operated locations, international licensing partners operated Ralph Lauren stores and dedicated concession shops as well as Club Monaco stores and shops at the end of the second quarter.
385
107
58
206
14
488
58
29
64
 
Rugby
the remainder booked in the fourth quarter.
Subsequent to the end of the second quarter, the Company approved a plan to discontinue operations for the Rugby brand in order to focus resources on higher growth, more scalable global opportunities with the core Ralph Lauren brand. As a result, the Company expects to close 14 stores and an e-commerce-enabled website over the balance of Fiscal 2013 and to record associated pretax charges of during the second half of the year. Approximately of the pretax charges is expected to be incurred in the third quarter of Fiscal 2013, with
$20 million - $30 million
75%
 
Fiscal 2013 Outlook
The Company expects consolidated net revenues for Fiscal 2013 to increase by of overall channel mix. The full year Fiscal 2013 sales and operating margin expectations outlined in this press release do not include the anticipated pretax charges related to the closure of the
, which compares to its previous expectation for mid-single-digit consolidated net revenue growth. Included in the Fiscal 2013 net revenue expectation is an approximate 400-500 basis point net negative impact associated with strategic decisions regarding certain operations, including store closures associated with the Companys Greater China network repositioning efforts and the discontinuation of American Living, in addition to unfavorable foreign currency effects. Operating margin from continuing operations for Fiscal 2013 is expected to be basis points above the prior year period as anticipated gross profit margin expansion is largely offset by continued investment in the Companys long-term growth initiatives and the impact
2%-3%
approximately 50
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
Rugby brand noted above. The Company continues to estimate the full
year Fiscal 2013 tax rate at approximately .
33%
 
In the third quarter of Fiscal 2013, the Company expects consolidated net revenues to increase by a low-single-digit percentage, as a in retail revenues is partially offset by a in wholesale revenues. Included in the third quarter net revenue expectation is an approximate 400 basis point net negative impact from strategic decisions regarding certain operations, including store closures associated with the Companys Greater China network repositioning efforts and the discontinuation of American Living, in addition to unfavorable foreign currency effects. Operating margin from continuing operations for the third quarter of Fiscal 2013 is expected to be approximately basis points above the comparable prior year period, as an anticipated increase in gross profit margin is partially offset by incremental investment to support the Companys strategic growth objectives and the impact of overall channel mix. The third quarter sales and operating margin expectations outlined in this press release do not include the anticipated pretax charges related to the closure of the
mid-single-digit increase
low-single-digit decline
25-75
Rugby brand noted above.
Subsequent to the end of the second quarter, the Company had a favorable resolution of a discrete tax item. As such, the Company currently expects the third quarter tax rate to be approximately 29%.
 
Conference Call
As previously announced, the Company will host a conference call and live online webcast today, Friday,
November 2, 2012, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern. Listeners may access a live broadcast of the conference call on the Company's investor relations website at http://investor.ralphlauren.com or by dialing . To access the conference call, listeners should dial in by 8:45 a.m. Eastern and request to be connected to the Ralph Lauren Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 conference call.
719-325-2243
 
An online archive of the broadcast will be available by accessing the Company's investor relations website at http://investor.ralphlauren.com. A telephone replay of the call will be available from 1:00 P.M. Eastern, Friday, November 2, 2012 through 1:00 P.M. Eastern, Thursday, November 8, 2012 by dialing and entering passcode .
719-457-0820
5406889
 
ABOUT RALPH LAUREN
 
Ralph Lauren Corporation (NYSE: RL) is a leader in the design, marketing and distribution of premium lifestyle products in four categories: apparel, home, accessories and fragrances. For more than 45 years, Ralph Lauren's reputation and distinctive image have been consistently developed across an expanding number of products, brands and international markets. The Company's brand names, which include Polo by Ralph Lauren, Ralph Lauren Purple Label, Ralph Lauren Collection, Black Label, Blue Label, Lauren by Ralph Lauren, RRL, RLX, Rugby, Ralph Lauren Childrenswear, Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren, American Living, Chaps and Club Monaco, constitute one of the world's most widely recognized families of consumer brands. For more information, go to http://investor.ralphlauren.com.
This press release and oral statements made from time to time by representatives of the Company contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding, among other things, our current expectations about the Company's future results and financial condition,
 
 
4
 
 
revenues, store openings, gross margins, expenses and earnings and are indicated by words or phrases such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, we believe and similar words or phrases. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from the future results, performance or achievements expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based largely on the Company's expectations and judgments and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are unforeseeable and beyond our control. The factors that could cause actual results to materially differ include, among others: the loss of key personnel; the impact of global economic conditions and domestic and foreign currency fluctuations on the Company, the global economy and the consumer marketplace; our ability to successfully implement our anticipated growth strategies and to continue to expand or grow our business; changes in our effective tax rates or credit profile and ratings within the financial community; our ability to secure the technology facilities and systems used by the Company and those of third party service providers from, among other things, cybersecurity breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses or similar events; changes in the competitive marketplace and in our commercial relationships; risks associated with changes in social, political, economic and other conditions affecting foreign operations or sourcing (including tariffs and trade controls, raw materials prices and labor costs); risks associated with our international operations, such as violations of laws prohibiting improper payments and the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including tax laws; risks arising out of litigation or trademark conflicts; our ability to continue to maintain our brand image and reputation; the potential impact on our operations and customers resulting from natural or man-made disasters; and other risk factors identified in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ralph Lauren is a global company that reports its financial information in U.S. dollars, in accordance with U.S. GAAP (GAAP). Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations affect the amounts reported by the Company in U.S. dollars because the underlying currencies in which the Company transacts change in value over time compared to the U.S. dollar. These rate fluctuations can have a significant effect on reported operating results. As a supplement to its reported operating results, the Company presents constant currency financial information, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Company uses constant currency information to provide a framework to assess how its businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company believes this information is useful to investors to facilitate comparisons of operating results and better identify trends in its businesses. These constant currency performance measures should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of or superior to, the Company's operating performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
SOURCE: Ralph Lauren Corporation
Investor Relations
James Hurley, 212-813-7862
or
Corporate Communications
Julie Berman, 212-583-2262
 
 
 10


