FILE:JEC/JEC-8K-20061005140243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 5, 2006, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its acquisition of W.H. Linder & Associates, Inc. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Report pursuant to Item 8.01.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that section. Furthermore, this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 5, 2006
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For additional information contact:
John W. Prosser, Jr.
Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration
626.578.6803
PASADENA, CALIF.Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (NYSE:JEC) announced today that they have acquired W.H. Linder & Associates, Inc., an upstream/offshore engineering firm based in Metairie, La.; and Houston, Texas.
Officials did not disclose the terms of the acquisition.
Linder is a full-service, multidisciplinary consulting engineering firm with over 300 people and 25 years of experience in the upstream/offshore market. They offer a comprehensive suite of engineering and support services; with their core services tailored to the oil & gas sector.
Jacobs operates from two major locations on the U.S. Gulf Coast (Houston and Baton Rouge), and serves their oil, gas, refining, chemical, and aerospace clients from those locations.
In making the announcement, Jacobs President Craig Martin stated, "We are pleased to announce the acquisition of this world-class organization. Linder complements our existing upstream business and plays an integral part in our strategic initiative to expand our upstream and offshore capabilities, widening the services that both companies offer to their respective clients."
Jacobs, with over 42,000 employees and revenues approaching $7.0 billion, provides technical, professional, and construction services globally.
Any statements made in this release that are not based on historical fact are forward-looking statements. Although such statements are based on management's current estimates and expectations, and currently available competitive, financial, and economic data, forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain. We, therefore, caution the reader that there are a variety of factors that could cause business conditions and results to differ materially from what is contained in our forward-looking statements. For a description of some of the factors which may occur that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements please refer to our 2005 Form 10-K, and in particular the discussions contained under Items 1 - Business, 3 - Legal Proceedings, and 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We also caution the readers of this release that we do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements made herein.
 
Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.


