FILE:JEC/JEC-8K-20070226172415.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Effective February 21, 2006, David M. Petrone, a director of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (the "Company"), retired from the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"). Mr. Petrone had served as a member of the Board since 1987.
On February 22, 2007 the Board elected General John P. Jumper (USAF Retired) as a director of the Company to fill the vacancy created by Mr. Petrone's retirement. General Jumper, who has been affirmatively determined by the Board to be an independent director under the independence standards of the New York Stock Exchange and the Company's guidelines for determining independence, will also serve on the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance committee. Pursuant to the Company's charter and bylaws, General Jumper will stand for re-election at the Company's 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
In connection with his election, and pursuant to the terms of the Company's 1999 Outside Director Stock Plan (the "Plan"), General Jumper will receive an option to purchase 4,000 shares of the Company's common stock on March 1, 2007 with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock (as defined in the Plan) as of that date. General Jumper will also receive the standard, annual compensation for the Company's non-management directors. This annual compensation includes (i) a cash retainer in the amount of $50,000 per year, (ii) a fee of $1,500 for each meeting of the Board and any committee on which he serves that he attends, (iii) pursuant to the Plan, an award of 1,000 shares of restricted stock, and (iv) pursuant to the Plan, an option to purchase 2,500 shares of the Company's common stock on the first day of March (beginning March 1, 2008) with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock (as defined in the Plan) on that date.
There are no understandings or arrangements between General Jumper and any other person pursuant to which General Jumper was elected as a director. There are and have been no transactions regarding General Jumper that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Report pursuant to Item 5.02.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 26, 2007
 
 
 

 
 
For additional information contact:
John W. Prosser, Jr.
Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration
626.578.6803
PASADENA, CALIF.Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (NYSE-JEC) announced today the election of General John P. Jumper (USAF Retired) to their Board of Directors. Jacobs also announced the retirement of David M. Petrone from the Board. In announcing the changes, Jacobs Board Chairman Noel G. Watson said, "I am sorry to lose Dave as a board member. In his 20 years of Board service, he was a significant contributor in many ways. His leadership, advice, and counsel to the Board and to me were invaluable. We will miss Dave's involvement greatly." Mr. Watson continued, "However, we have a strong addition to our board in John Jumper. John's experience in Aerospace and Defense provides our Board with additional insight into that important segment of our business."
General Jumper retired from the U.S. Air Force in 2005 after a distinguished 39-year military career. In his last position as Chief of Staff, he served as the senior military officer in the Air Force leading more than 700,000 military, civilian, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve men and women. In that position, he administered annual budgets in excess of $100 billion. As a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Jumper provided military advice to the Secretary of Defense, the National Security Council, and the President. During his career, he served as Commander, Air Combat Command; commanded U.S. Air Forces in Europe; served as Senior Military Assistant to the Secretary of Defense; and commanded an F-16 fighter squadron and two fighter wings.
General Jumper holds a Master of Business Administration degree from Golden Gate University in San Francisco and a Bachelor of Science degree from Virginia Military Institute.
General Jumper currently serves on the Board of Directors of various companies, including Goodrich Corporation and TechTeam Global, Inc.
Jacobs, with over 45,000 employees and revenues approaching $8.0 billion, provides technical, professional, and construction services globally.
Any statements made in this release that are not based on historical fact are forward-looking statements. Although such statements are based on management's current estimates and expectations, and currently available competitive, financial, and economic data, forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain. We, therefore, caution the reader that there are a variety of factors that could cause business conditions and results to differ materially from what is contained in our forward-looking statements. For a description of some of the factors which may occur that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements please refer to our 2006 Form 10-K, and in particular the discussions contained under Items 1- Business, 1A  Risk Factors, 3 - Legal Proceedings, and 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We also caution the readers of this release that we do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements made herein.
 


