FILE:JEC/JEC-8K-20080129140508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the foiling obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dr. Dale R. Laurance, who has served as a Director of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (the "Company") since 1994, retired from the Company's Board of Directors effective January 24, 2008. Dr. Laurance chose not to stand for re-election upon the expiration of his term at the Company's 2008 Annual Meeting.
On January 24, 2008 the Board elected John F. Coyne as a director of the Company to fill the vacancy created by Dr. Laurance's retirement. Mr. Coyne, who has been affirmatively determined by the Board to be an independent director under the independence standards of the New York Stock Exchange and the Company's guidelines for determining independence, will also serve on the Board's Human Resource and Compensation committee. Pursuant to the Company's charter and bylaws, Mr. Coyne will stand for re-election at the Company's 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
In connection with his election, and pursuant to the terms of the Company's 1999 Outside Director Stock Plan (the "Plan"), Mr. Coyne will receive an option to purchase 4,000 shares of the Company's common stock on February 1, 2008 with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock as of that date. Mr. Coyne will also receive the standard, annual compensation for the Company's non-management directors. This annual compensation includes (i) a cash retainer in the amount of $60,000 per year, (ii) a fee of $1,500 for each meeting of the Board and any committee on which he serves that he attends, (iii) pursuant to the Plan, an award of 1,000 shares of restricted stock or restricted stock units, and (iv) pursuant to the Plan, an option to purchase 2,500 shares of the Company's common stock on the first day of March (beginning March 1, 2008) with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock on that date.
There are no understandings or arrangements between Mr. Coyne and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Coyne was elected as a director. There are and have been no transactions regarding Mr. Coyne that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Report pursuant to Item 5.02.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 29, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For additional information contact:
John W. Prosser, Jr.
Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration
626.578.6803
PASADENA, CALIF.Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (NYSE-JEC) announced today the election of John F. Coyne to their Board of Directors. Jacobs also announced the retirement of Dr. Dale R. Laurance from the Board.
In announcing the changes, Jacobs Board Chairman Noel G. Watson said, "I am sorry to lose Dale as a board member. In his 14 years of Board service, he was a tower of strength. His leadership, advice, and counsel were invaluable. We will miss Dale's involvement greatly." Mr. Watson continued, "We are very pleased to announce that John Coyne, president and CEO of Western Digital Corporation, is joining our board. John brings a global perspective to our board, having lived and worked in several countries. An experienced executive in a fast-paced industry, John truly understands how to think globally and act locally with effectiveness."
In addition to serving as president and chief executive officer of Western Digital (WD), Mr. Coyne is a member of its Board of Directors. He has been president since May 2006 and became CEO in January 2007. Mr. Coyne has dedicated the majority of his career to WD, serving the company in many capacities around the globe.
A native of Dublin, Ireland, Mr. Coyne received his bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from University College Dublin in 1971.
Jacobs, with about 54,000 employees and $9 billion in revenues, provides technical, professional, and construction services globally.
Any statements made in this release that are not based on historical fact are forward-looking statements. Although such statements are based on management's current estimates and expectations, and currently available competitive, financial, and economic data, forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain. We, therefore, caution the reader that there are a variety of factors that could cause business conditions and results to differ materially from what is contained in our forward-looking statements. For a description of some of the factors which may occur that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements please refer to our 2007 Form 10-K, and in particular the discussions contained under Items 1Business, 1ARisk Factors, 3Legal Proceedings, and 7Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We also caution the readers of this release that we do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements made herein.


