FILE:JEC/JEC-8K-20110201152001.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation to the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In connection with the Acquisition (as defined below), on January 26, 2011, certain of the Company's subsidiaries entered into four credit facilities with Bank of America, N.A., BNP Paribas, and Royal Bank of Scotland Finance (Ireland) ("RBS"), for an aggregate potential borrowing capacity of approximately $400 million. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries guaranteed the obligations incurred pursuant to the facilities. The interest rate on each of these facilities is 75 basis points over the LIBOR rate for the applicable currency (subject to an increase based on, among other things, the Company's leverage ratio), the maximum maturity is approximately 15 months, and the events of default include the failure to pay amounts due under the facilities as they become due and events of default under the Company's Credit Agreement dated as of December 15, 2005 among the Company and certain of its subsidiaries and certain lenders. The Credit Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.12 to the Company's fiscal 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
On February 1, 2011, Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (the "Company"), along with certain of its subsidiaries, completed the acquisition of certain components of the process and construction business of Aker Solutions ASA ("Aker"), and certain of its subsidiaries, for $675 million in cash, adjusted for cash and debt acquired (the "Acquisition"), pursuant to that certain Share Purchase Agreement dated December 22, 2010 (the "Purchase Agreement") among the Company (and certain of its subsidiaries) and Aker (and certain of its subsidiaries).
The acquired business provides engineering, design, procurement, construction and project management, as well as consulting and maintenance, services in the mining and metals, oil and gas, and energy and environmental end-markets. Additionally, the acquired business owns and develops technologies and fabrication of specialty acid and chemical equipment for the mining, chemicals, water treatment and pulp and paper markets. The activities of the acquired business are carried on principally in the United States, South America, China, Australia and Western Europe.
A copy of the Purchase Agreement (for which certain provisions thereof confidential treatment has been requested by the Company) has been filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for its quarterly period ended December 31, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 26, 2011. The description of the Acquisition set forth in this Item 2.01 is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Purchase Agreement as set forth in such Exhibit 2.1.
Item 2.03.
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
As described in Item 1.01 above, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into four credit facilities on the terms and with the counterparties noted above.
 
The Company issued a press release on February 1, 2011 announcing the completion of the Acquisition. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The information disclosed in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to
the liabilities of that section. The information disclosed in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 hereto, shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing, but except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 hereto, in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For additional information contact:
Michelle Jones
626.578.6968
PASADENA, CALIF.Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (NYSE:JEC) announced today that it has completed the acquisition of a number of Aker Solutions' operations within its Process and Construction (P&C) business area.
The acquisition, which Jacobs initially announced on Dec. 21, 2010, has a cash purchase price of approximately $675 million, adjusted for cash and debt acquired. Jacobs expects the acquisition to be modestly accretive to earnings in fiscal 2011. Aker Solutions is retaining Aker Projects (Shanghai) Company Limited pending regulatory clearances in China.
Aker Solutions' P&C operations significantly expand Jacobs' global presence in the mining and metals market; provide a new geographic region with South America; and strengthen Jacobs' presence in China. It also enhances Jacobs' regional presence in Australia, Europe and North America.
Jacobs President and Chief Executive Officer Craig Martin said, "This acquisition directly supports our growth model and expands our global footprint to important geographies. Additionally, Aker Solutions' P&C business brings strength to several different areas of our business and positions us as a top-tier, global player in the mining and metals business."
Gary Mandel, executive vice president, Aker Solutions' Process and Construction business area, is joining Jacobs as part of the transaction. Mandel stated, "Jacobs is a solid company that has a history of success in the industry. As a customer-focused organization, we join a team that also holds its clients in the highest regard. We see enormous opportunity to provide a higher and more expansive level of support to our clients and our employees."
Jacobs is one of the world's largest and most diverse providers of technical, professional, and construction services.
Statements made in this release that are not based on historical fact are forward-looking statements. We base these forward-looking statements on management's current estimates and expectations as well as currently available competitive, financial and economic data. Forward-looking statements, however, are inherently uncertain. There are a variety of factors that could cause business results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. For a description of some of the factors which may occur that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements please refer to our 2010 Form 10-K, and in particular the discussions contained under Items 1 - Business, 1A - Risk Factors, 3 - Legal Proceedings, and 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements made herein.


