ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations INTRODUCTION Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the Company or ITW) is a multinational manufacturer of a diversified range of industrial products and equipment with operations in 58 countries. These businesses are internally reported as 52 operating segments to senior management. The Companys 52 operating segments have been aggregated into the following eight external reportable segments: Transportation; Power Systems & Electronics; Industrial Packaging; Food Equipment; Construction Products; Polymers & Fluids; Decorative Surfaces; and All Other. Due to the large number of diverse businesses and the Companys decentralized operating style, the Company does not require its businesses to provide detailed information on operating results. Instead, the Companys corporate management collects data on several key measurements: operating revenues, operating income, operating margins, overhead costs, number of months on hand in inventory, days sales outstanding in accounts receivable, past due receivables and return on invested capital. These key measures are monitored by management and significant changes in operating results versus current trends in end markets and variances from forecasts are discussed with operating unit management. The results of each segment are analyzed by identifying the effects of changes in the results of the base businesses, newly acquired companies, restructuring costs, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, and currency translation on the operating revenues and operating income of each segment. Base businesses are those businesses that have been included in the Companys results of operations for more than 12 months. The changes to base business operating income include the estimated effects of both operating leverage and changes in variable margins and overhead costs. Operating leverage is the estimated effect of the base business revenue changes on operating income, assuming variable margins remain the same as the prior period. As manufacturing and administrative overhead costs usually do not significantly change as a result of revenues increasing or decreasing, the percentage change in operating income due to operating leverage is usually more than the percentage change in the base business revenues. A key element of the Companys business strategy is its continuous 80/20 business process for both existing businesses and new acquisitions. The basic concept of this 80/20 business process is to focus on what is most important (the 20% of the items which account for 80% of the value) and to spend less time and resources on the less important (the 80% of the items which account for 20% of the value). The Companys operations use this 80/20 business process to simplify and focus on the key parts of their business, and as a result, reduce complexity that often disguises what is truly important. The Companys operations utilize the 80/20 process in various aspects of their businesses. Common applications of the 80/20 business process include: Simplifying product lines by reducing the number of products offered by combining the features of similar products, outsourcing products or, as a last resort, eliminating low value products. Segmenting the customer base by focusing on the 80/20 customers separately and finding alternative ways to serve the 20/80 customers. Simplifying the supplier base by partnering with 80/20 suppliers and reducing the number of 20/80 suppliers. Designing business processes, systems and measurements around the 80/20 activities. The result of the application of this 80/20 business process is that the Company has over time improved its long term operating and financial performance. These 80/20 efforts can result in restructuring projects that reduce costs and improve margins. Corporate management works closely with those businesses that have operating results below expectations to help those businesses better apply this 80/20 business process and improve their results. 13 INTERNATIONAL REPORTING CHANGE Effective January 1, 2011, the Company eliminated the one month lag for the reporting of its international operations outside of North America. As a result, the Company now reports both North American and international results on a calendar year basis. Prior to this, the international fiscal reporting period began on December 1st and ended on November 30th. The Company has applied this change in accounting principle retrospectively to all prior period financial statements presented. Refer to the International Reporting Lag note in 
 
