FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20031113063333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. is furnishing this current report on Form 8-K in order to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission a press release we will issue on November 13, 2003, which press release may be deemed to disclose information regarding our results of operations for our fiscal quarter that ended October 31, 2003. A copy of the press release being furnished is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 13, 2003
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
BENTONVILLE, Ark., November 13, 2003  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. reported record earnings and sales for the quarter ended October 31, 2003. Net sales were $62.5 billion, an increase of 13.1 percent over the similar prior year quarter. Net income from continuing operations for the quarter was $2.0 billion, a 13.9 percent increase from the $1.8 billion in the similar prior year quarter. Earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.46 up from $0.40 per share in the same prior year quarter.
 
Net sales for the nine months ended October 31, 2003, were $181.8 billion, an increase of 11.4 percent over net sales of the similar prior year period. Net income from continuing operations for the nine months increased 14.4 percent to a record $6.1 billion or $1.40 earnings per share, up from $5.4 billion or $1.21 earnings per share in the same prior year period.
 
On May 23, 2003, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. completed the sale of McLane Company, Inc. ("McLane"), then a wholly-owned subsidiary, to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. McLane has been accounted for as a discontinued operation in this release.
 
Lee Scott, President and CEO said, "The excellent results for the quarter reflect the continued efforts by our associates to serve our customers. Of particular note is the performance of our international and SAM'S CLUB teams."
Net Sales were as follows:
(Dollars in billions)
 
 
Total U.S. comparable sales for the quarter were up 6.1 percent which is represented by a 5.7 percent comp increase for Wal-Mart Stores and 8.0 percent comp increase for SAM'S. Total U.S. comparable sales for the nine month period were up 3.9 percent, which is represented by a 3.7 percent comp increase for Wal-Mart Stores and a 4.6 percent comp increase for SAM'S CLUB.
 
Wal-Mart Stores Segment:
 
For the third quarter, the Wal-Mart Stores segment, including Supercenters, had operating profit (profit before interest, unallocated corporate expenses, and income taxes) of $2.967 billion, an increase of 10.9 percent compared with $2.676 billion in the similar period in the prior year.
 
For the nine month period, the Wal-Mart Stores segment, including Supercenters, had operating profit of $9.036 billion, an increase of 9.4 percent as compared with operating profit of $8.256 billion in the similar period in the prior year.
 
SAM'S CLUB Segment:
 
The SAM'S CLUB segment had an operating profit for the quarter of $270 million, an increase of 12.5 percent compared with $240 million in the similar period in the prior year.
 
For the nine month period, the SAM'S CLUB segment had operating profit of $783 million, an increase of 7.3 percent as compared with operating profit of $730 million in the similar period in the prior year.
 
International Segment:
 
The International segment had an operating profit of $564 million for the most recent quarter, an increase of 28.5 percent compared with $439 million in the similar period in the prior year.
 
The International segment had an operating profit of $1.509 billion for the nine month period, an increase of 20.7 percent compared with $1.250 billion in the similar period in the prior year.
After this earnings release has been furnished to the SEC, a pre-recorded call offering additional comments on the quarter will be available to all investors. You may listen to this call by dialing 402-998-1748. The information included in this release and a transcript of our pre-recorded phone call will be available on our web site at www.walmartstores.com, news, news releases, earnings and dividends.
 
As of October 31, 2003, the Company had 1,476 Wal-Mart stores, 1,430 Supercenters, 533 SAM'S CLUBS and 60 Neighborhood Markets in the United States. Internationally, the Company operated units in Argentina (11), Brazil (25), Canada (220), China (31), Germany (92), South Korea (15), Mexico (625), Puerto Rico (52) and United Kingdom (265).
 
Wal-Mart also owns a 36% interest in Seiyu, Ltd. with options to purchase up to 66.7% of that company by the end of December 2007. Seiyu operates over 400 stores located throughout Japan.
 
Wal-Mart's common stock is listed for trading on the New York and Pacific stock exchanges under the symbol WMT.
 
This release contains statements that Wal-Mart believes are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by use of phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "foresee" or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, descriptions of our objectives, strategies, plans, goals or targets are also forward-looking statements. These statements discuss, among other things, expected growth, future revenues, future cash flows, future performance and the anticipation and expectations of Wal-Mart and its management as to future occurrences and trends. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, domestically and internationally, including, the cost of goods, competitive pressures, inflation, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions, and other risks. We discuss certain of these matters more fully in other of our filings with the SEC, including our last Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC; this release should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and together with all our other filings, including current reports on Form 8-K, made with the SEC through the date of this report. You are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. As a result of these matters, including changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from historical results or from anticipated results expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this report and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior periods to conform to current presentations.
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior periods to conform to current presentations.
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior periods to conform to current presentations.
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
* Includes cash and cash equivalents of discontinued operation of $21 million for 2002.
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior periods to conform to current presentations.


