FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20040924122616.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
(b) On September 23, 2004, Dawn G. Lepore resigned from the Board of Directors of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Wal-Mart"). The resignation was not related to any disagreement between Ms. Lepore and Wal-Mart on any matter relating to Wal-Mart's operations, policies, or practices. A copy of the press release issued by Wal-Mart announcing Ms. Lepore's resignation is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
99.1 Press release dated September 23, 2004.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: September 24, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
BENTONVILLE, Ark., Sept. 23, 2004  Dawn Lepore announced her resignation as a member of the Board of Directors of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., effective immediately.
 
Ms. Lepore has accepted the position of Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of drugstore.com, inc., a competitor of Wal-Mart. Ms. Lepore believed her service to both companies could represent a potential conflict of interest.
 
Ms. Lepore has served on the Board of Directors of Wal-Mart since 2001. She was a member of the Board's Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee. Prior to accepting her position with drugstore.com, inc., she was Vice Chairman for The Charles Schwab Corporation, a financial services company.
 
Rob Walton, Chairman of the Board of Wal-Mart, said, "We appreciate the time, energy and ideas that Dawn has contributed to Wal-Mart during her years of service. We wish her the very best in this new opportunity."
 
Said Ms. Lepore, "I have great respect for the Wal-Mart organization and culture, and I have no doubt that my experience there has made me a better executive."
 
No decision has been made regarding a replacement for Ms. Lepore.
 


