FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20040513062557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. is furnishing this current report on Form 8-K in order to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission a press release that we will issue on May 13, 2004, which press release may be deemed to disclose information regarding our results of operations for our fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2004. A copy of the press release being furnished is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 13, 2004
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
BENTONVILLE, Ark., May 13, 2004  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. reported record first quarter earnings and sales for the quarter ended April 30, 2004. Net sales were $64.8 billion, an increase of 14.2 percent over the first quarter of fiscal 2004. Income from continuing operations for the quarter was $2.2 billion, an increase of 18.4 percent from $1.8 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2004. Earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.50, up from $0.41 per share in the same prior year quarter.
 
Lee Scott, President and CEO said, "I am encouraged by the strengthening economy and the improving apparel environment. Although I remain concerned about the impact higher gasoline and petroleum prices will have on our customers, I am still optimistic about the balance of the year."
 
Net sales were as follows:
(Dollars in billions)
 
 
Total U.S. comparable sales for the quarter increased 6.4 percent, which is represented by a 5.9 percent comp increase for Wal-Mart Stores and 8.8 percent comp increase for SAM'S CLUB.
 
Wal-Mart Stores Segment:
For the first quarter, the Wal-Mart Stores segment, including Supercenters, had operating profit (profit before interest, unallocated corporate expenses, and income taxes) of $3.121 billion, an increase of 13.4 percent compared with $2.752 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2004.
 
SAM'S CLUB Segment:
The SAM'S CLUB segment had an operating profit for the quarter of $267 million, an increase of 30.9 percent compared with $204 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2004.
 
International Segment:
The International segment had an operating profit of $563 million for the most recent quarter, an increase of 46.6 percent compared with $384 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2004.
 
After this earnings release has been furnished to the SEC, a pre-recorded call offering additional comments on the quarter will be available to all investors. You may listen to this call by dialing 402-998-1748. The information included in this release and our pre-recorded phone call will be available on our web site at www.walmartstores.com, news, news releases, earnings and dividends.
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. operates in all fifty states. Internationally, the Company operates in Puerto Rico, Canada, China, Mexico, Brazil, Germany, the United Kingdom, Argentina and South Korea. Wal-Mart also owns a 37.8% interest in Seiyu, Ltd. with options to purchase up to 69.4% of that company by the end of December 2007. Seiyu operates over 400 stores located throughout Japan.
 
On May 23, 2003, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. completed the sale of McLane Company, Inc. ("McLane"), then a wholly-owned subsidiary, to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. McLane has been accounted for as a discontinued operation.
 
The Company's securities are listed on the New York and Pacific stock exchanges under the symbol WMT. Last year, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. contributed more than $150 million to support communities and local non-profit organizations. Customers and associates raised an additional $70 million at Stores and Clubs. View additional information about the Company on our website at www.walmartstores.com or shop with us on-line at www.walmart.com and www.samsclub.com.
 
This release contains a statement as to the view of our Chief Executive Officer regarding the balance of the year and his concerns about the impact of gasoline and petroleum prices on Wal-Mart's customers that Wal-Mart believes is a "forward-looking statement" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. This forward-looking statement is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, domestically and internationally, including, the cost of goods, competitive pressures, geopolitical conditions, inflation, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, changes in the cost of energy, labor and insurance, interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions and other risks. We discuss certain of these factors more fully in other of our filings with the SEC, including our last Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, and this release should be read in conjunction with that Annual Report on Form 10-K, and together with all our other filings, including current reports on Form 8-K, made with the SEC
 
through the date of this report. We urge you to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statement contained in this release. As a result of these matters, including changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from historical results or from anticipated results implied in the forward-looking statement contained in this release. That forward-looking statement is made only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update it to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
 


