FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20040219061307.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. is furnishing this current report on Form 8-K in order to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission a press release that we will issue on February 19, 2004, which press release may be deemed to disclose information regarding our results of operations for the twelve months and our fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2004. A copy of the press release being furnished is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 19, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
BENTONVILLE, Ark., February 19, 2004  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. reported record earnings and sales for the quarter ended January 31, 2004. Net sales were $74.5 billion, an increase of 12.2 percent over the similar prior year quarter. Income from continuing operations after minority interest and taxes for the quarter was $2.7 billion, an 11.0 percent increase from the $2.5 billion in the similar prior year quarter. Earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.63 up from $0.56 per share in the same prior year quarter.
 
During the fourth quarter, the Company, as a result of new tax legislation in Germany, re-evaluated its deferred tax asset for recoverability. Based on the review, the Company recorded a valuation allowance in the amount of $150 million reducing earnings per share by $0.03.
 
Net sales for the twelve months ended January 31, 2004, were a record $256.3 billion, an increase of 11.6 percent over net sales of the similar prior year period. Income from continuing operations after minority interest and taxes for the twelve months increased 13.3 percent to a record $8.9 billion or $2.03 earnings per share, up from $7.8 billion or $1.76 earnings per share in the same prior year period.
 
On May 23, 2003, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. completed the sale of McLane Company, Inc. ("McLane"), then a wholly-owned subsidiary, to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. McLane has been accounted for as a discontinued operation.
 
Lee Scott, President and CEO said, "I am pleased to report that, with the help of our associates, we had a successful end to a year that was difficult in many ways."
Net Sales were as follows:
(Dollars in billions)
 
 
Total U.S. comparable sales for the quarter increased 4.8 percent which is represented by a 4.4 percent comp increase for Wal-Mart Stores and 6.7 percent comp increase for SAM'S CLUB. Total U.S. comparable sales for the twelve month period were up 4.1 percent, which is represented by a 3.9 percent comp increase for Wal-Mart Stores and a 5.3 percent comp increase for SAM'S CLUB.
 
:
Wal-Mart Stores Segment
 
For the fourth quarter, the Wal-Mart Stores segment, including Supercenters, had operating profit (profit before interest, unallocated corporate expenses, and income taxes) of $3.880 billion, an increase of 8.3 percent compared with $3.584 billion in the similar period in the prior year.
 
For the twelve month period, the Wal-Mart Stores segment, including Supercenters, had operating profit of $12.916 billion, an increase of 9.1 percent as compared with operating profit of $11.840 billion in the similar period in the prior year.
 
:
SAM'S CLUB Segment
 
The SAM'S CLUB segment had an operating profit for the quarter of $343 million, an increase of 17.1 percent compared with $293 million in the similar period in the prior year.
 
For the twelve month period, the SAM'S CLUB segment had operating profit of $1.126 billion, an increase of 10.1 percent as compared with operating profit of $1.023 billion in the similar period in the prior year.
 
:
International Segment
 
The International segment had an operating profit of $862 million for the most recent quarter, an increase of 15.2 percent compared with $748 million in the similar period in the prior year.
 
The International segment had an operating profit of $2.370 billion for the twelve month period, an increase of 18.6 percent compared with $1.998 billion in the similar period in the prior year.
 
After this earnings release has been furnished to the SEC, a pre-recorded call offering additional comments on the quarter will be available to all investors. You may listen to this call by dialing 402-998-1748. The information included in this release and our pre-recorded phone call will be available on our web site at www.walmartstores.com, news, news releases, earnings and dividends.
 
As of January 31, 2004, the Company had 1,478 Wal-Mart stores, 1,471 Supercenters, 538 SAM'S CLUBS and 64 Neighborhood Markets in the United States. Internationally, the Company operated units in Argentina (11), Brazil (25), Canada (235), China (34), Germany (92), South Korea (15), Mexico (623), Puerto Rico (53) and United Kingdom (267).
 
Wal-Mart also owns a 36% interest in Seiyu, Ltd. with options to purchase up to 69.4% of that company by the end of December 2007. Seiyu operates over 400 stores located throughout Japan.
 
Wal-Mart's common stock is listed for trading on the New York and Pacific stock exchanges under the symbol WMT.
 
This release contains statements that Wal-Mart believes are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by use of phrases such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "foresee" or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, descriptions of our objectives, strategies, plans, goals or targets are also forward-looking statements. These statements discuss, among other things, expected growth, future revenues, future cash flows, future performance and the anticipation and expectations of Wal-Mart and its management as to future occurrences and trends. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, domestically and internationally, including, the cost of goods, competitive pressures, inflation, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions, and other risks. We discuss certain of these matters more fully in other of our filings with the SEC, including our last Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC; this release should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and together with all our other filings, including current reports on Form 8-K, made with the SEC through the date of this report. You are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. As a result of these matters, including changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from historical results or from anticipated results expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of this report and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior periods to conform to current presentations.
 
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior periods to conform to current presentations.
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior periods to conform to current presentations.
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior periods to conform to current presentations.
 


