FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20050512063152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. is furnishing the following information:
 
We will issue a press release (the "Press Release") on May 12, 2005 that will disclose information regarding our results of operations for our fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2005. A copy of the Press Release is being furnished and included herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The Press Release contains a non-GAAP financial measure (as that term is defined in Item 10(e) of the Commission's Regulation S-K). A statement providing a reconciliation from that non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is also included in the Press Release. Management included the non-GAAP financial measure in the Press Release because it believes such measure provides investors with an important perspective on the contribution of certain items to our earnings per share as calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 12, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
BENTONVILLE, Ark., May 12, 2005  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. reported record sales and earnings for the first quarter ended April 30, 2005. Net sales for the first quarter were $70.9 billion, an increase of 9.5 percent over the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Net income for the quarter was $2.5 billion, an increase of 13.6 percent from $2.2 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Earnings per share were $0.58, compared with $0.50 for the prior year first quarter. First quarter earnings in fiscal 2006 were favorably impacted by two items totaling $145 million after tax or $0.03 per share: an increase due to favorable tax resolutions of $77 million and positive legal developments of $68 million after-tax. Excluding these items, earnings per share were $0.55.
 
Lee Scott, President and CEO, said "We achieved record results in the quarter. Yet with higher gasoline prices and a cooler and wetter spring than normal, we missed our plan. We are making the necessary adjustments and I anticipate better results in the second half of the year."
 
Net sales were as follows (Dollars in billions):
 
 
Total U.S. comparable sales for the quarter increased 2.9 percent, which is represented by a 2.8 percent comp increase for Wal-Mart Stores and 3.5 percent comp increase for SAM'S CLUB.
 
:
Wal-Mart Stores Segment
 
For the first quarter, the Wal-Mart Stores segment, including Supercenters, had segment operating income (income before net interest expense, income taxes, unallocated corporate overhead and minority interest) of $3.307 billion, an increase of 6.0 percent compared with $3.121 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2005.
 
:
SAM'S CLUB Segment
 
The SAM'S CLUB segment generated segment operating income for the quarter of $295 million, an increase of 10.5 percent compared with $267 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2005.
 
:
International Segment
 
The International segment had segment operating income of $667 million for the most recent quarter, an increase of 18.5 percent compared with $563 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2005.
 
After this earnings release has been furnished to the SEC, a pre-recorded call offering additional comments on the quarter will be available to all investors. You may listen to this call by dialing 203-369-1090. The information included in this release and our pre-recorded phone call will be available on our web site at www.walmartstores.com, news, news releases, earnings and dividends.
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. operates Wal-Mart Stores, Supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and SAM'S CLUB locations in the United States. Internationally, the company operates in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Japan, Mexico, Puerto Rico, South Korea and the United Kingdom. The company's securities are listed on the New York and Pacific stock exchanges under the symbol WMT. More information about Wal-Mart can be found by visiting . Online merchandise sales are available at .
www.walmartfacts.com
www.walmart.com
 
This release contains a statement as to the view of our Chief Executive Officer regarding anticipated results for the balance of fiscal 2006 that Wal-Mart believes is a "forward-looking statement" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. This forward-looking statement is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, domestically and internationally, including, the cost of goods, competitive pressures, geopolitical conditions, inflation, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, changes in the cost of energy, labor and insurance, accident costs, weather conditions, interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions and other risks. We discuss certain of these factors more fully in other of our filings with the SEC, including our last Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, and this release should be read in conjunction with that Annual Report on Form 10-K, and together with all our other filings, including current reports on Form 8-K, made with the SEC through the date of this report. We urge you to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statement contained in this release. As a result of these matters, including changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from historical results or
 
from anticipated results implied in the forward-looking statement contained in this release. That forward-looking statement is made only as of the date of this report and we undertake no obligation to update it to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
 


