FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20061120160907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
November 17, 2006
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
702 S.W. 8th Street
Bentonville, Arkansas 72716
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(479) 273-4000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 17, 2006, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Wal-Mart") appointed Roger C. Corbett as a director of Wal-Mart. In addition, Mr. Corbett was appointed to the Strategic Planning and Finance Committee of the Board.
There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Corbett and any other persons or entities pursuant to which Mr. Corbett was appointed as a director. Since the beginning of Wal-Mart's fiscal year 2006, neither Mr. Corbett nor any immediate family member of Mr. Corbett has been a party to any transaction or currently proposed transaction with Wal-Mart that is reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Upon his appointment to the Board, Mr. Corbett became entitled to a prorated portion of the non-management directors' compensation awarded pursuant to the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan (the "Director Plan"). The terms of the Director Plan were disclosed in the Company's proxy statement dated April 14, 2006 relating to the Annual Shareholders' Meeting held on June 2, 2006. As part of his non-management director compensation under the Director Plan, on November 17, 2006, Mr. Corbett received a prorated stock award in the amount of 1,576 shares of Wal-Mart common stock. Mr. Corbett will also receive a prorated portion of the remaining $60,000 of the annual retainer payable to non-management directors, which will be paid quarterly  through the 2007 Annual Shareholders' Meeting, and which he may take in cash or Wal-Mart common stock, defer in stock units under the terms of the Director Plan, defer in an interest bearing account, or receive in any combination thereof. In addition, during Mr. Corbett's tenure on the Board, Wal-Mart will compensate Mr. Corbett for the travel expenses, including transportation and board, for Mr. Corbett's spouse if she accompanies Mr. Corbett when he attends meetings of the Board or any Board committee of which he is a member, plus an additional amount to compensate Mr. Corbett for any applicable taxes on such payments on behalf of his spouse.
 
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Corbett's appointment to the Board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Wal-Mart Appoints Roger Corbett
to Board of Directors
 
BENTONVILLE, Ark., Nov. 17, 2006
 Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., today announced that Roger C. Corbett has been appointed to its board of directors. Mr. Corbett, 64, recently retired as the CEO and Group Managing Director of Woolworths Ltd. in Australia, positions he held at Woolworths since 1999. With the addition of Mr. Corbett, Wal-Mart's board now comprises 14 directors.
"Roger has a wealth of experience in international retail operations, including international sourcing," said Rob Walton, chairman of the board. "We've admired Roger's leadership for many years. He was instrumental in building Woolworths into the dynamic and successful enterprise it is today in Australia."
Mr. Corbett joined Woolworths in 1990 after serving five years as Director of Retail and Director of Operations with David Jones (Australia) Pty. Ltd. Mr. Corbett began his career with Grace Brothers Pty. Ltd. (later Coles Myer Ltd.) in 1961, remaining with that company until 1984. He presently serves on the boards of John Fairfax Holdings Ltd., Reserve Bank of Australia, Shore School, Australian Leisure & Hospitality Group Ltd. and The Salvation Army.
"It is a privilege to serve on the board of a company that sets the standard for retail excellence in the world," said Mr. Corbett. "Wal-Mart touches the lives of millions of people every day, improving their standard of living in so many ways."
Mr. Corbett will serve on the board's Strategic Planning and Finance Committee with fellow board members Aida Alvarez, James Breyer, David Glass, Jack Shewmaker and Jim Walton.
About Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. operates Wal-Mart Stores, Supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and SAM'S CLUB locations in the United States. The company also operates in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. The company's securities are listed on the New York and NYSE Arca stock exchanges under the symbol WMT. More information about Wal-Mart can be found by visiting .
www.walmartfacts.com
 
# # #
 
 
 
 
 
 


