FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20070515060943.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. is furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K in order to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission a press release (the "Press Release") that we will issue on May 15, 2007. The Press Release will disclose information regarding our results of operations and financial condition for our fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2007.
 
A copy of the Press Release being furnished pursuant to the foregoing Item 2.02 is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 15, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
BENTONVILLE, Ark., May 15, 2007  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) today reported record sales and earnings for the quarter ended Apr. 30, 2007. Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2008 were $85.387 billion, an increase of 8.3 percent over the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. Income from continuing operations for the quarter was $2.826 billion, an increase of 6.2 percent from $2.660 billion in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007.
Earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.68, up from $0.64 per share in the same prior year quarter.
Net Sales
Net sales were as follows (dollars in billions):
 
"While these are record sales and earnings, we feel there was an opportunity to have done better," said Lee Scott, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. president and chief executive officer. "Delivering on our mission  saving people money so they can live better  is more important than ever around the world. The worldwide organization is focused on improving sales and returns."
Operating Income
Operating income, which is defined as income before net interest expense, income taxes, unallocated corporate overhead, minority interest and discontinued operations, was as follows (dollars in billions):
 
The Wal-Mart Stores and Sam's Club segments' operating income includes the favorable impact of an excise tax refund on prior merchandise phone card sales of $46 million and $39 million, and a charge for certain litigation of $73 million and $10 million, respectively.
Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the above measurement of segment operating income has been changed to be consistent with certain changes to internal management reporting. The result of the new measurement criteria is to charge certain direct segment costs to the appropriate segments that were previously retained and managed as corporate overhead costs. As a result, all prior year measurements of segment profits have been restated for comparative purposes.
Comparable Store Sales
The Company reports comparable store sales for this earnings release based on the calendar months in the quarter which ended April 30, 2007. Comparable store sales for the United States were as follows:
 
Guidance
For the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company estimates the comparable store sales increase in the United States to be between 1 and 2 percent.
The Company estimates earnings per share from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 to come in between $0.75 and $0.79.
After this earnings release has been furnished to the SEC, a pre-recorded call offering additional comments on the quarter will be available to all investors. Callers may listen to this call by dialing 203-369-1090. The information included in this release and the pre-recorded phone call will be available in the investor information area on the Company's Web site at .
www.walmartstores.com/Investors
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. operates Wal-Mart discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and Sam's Club locations in the United States. The Company operates in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Costa
 
Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol WMT.
More information about Wal-Mart can be found by visiting . Online merchandise sales are available at and .
www.walmartstores.com
www.walmart.com
www.samsclub.com
This release contains statements as to the Company's estimate of its comparable store sales for the second quarter of fiscal year 2008 and its estimate of its earnings per share from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal year 2008 that Wal-Mart believes are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that act. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, domestically and internationally, including, the cost of goods, competitive pressures, geopolitical conditions, inflation, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, changes in the costs of gasoline, diesel fuel, other energy, transportation, utilities, labor and health care, accident costs, casualty and other insurance costs, interest rate fluctuations, capital market conditions, weather conditions, storm-related damage to the Company's facilities, regulatory matters and other risks. The Company discusses certain of these factors more fully in its additional filings with the SEC, including its last annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, and this release should be read in conjunction with that annual report on Form 10-K, together with all of the Company's other filings, including current reports on Form 8-K, made with the SEC through the date of this release. The Company urges you to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this release. As a result of these matters, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, the Company's actual results may differ materially from the expected results discussed in the forward-looking statements contained in this release. The forward-looking statements made in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
 
 


