FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20071113062356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. is furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K in order to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission a press release (the "Press Release") that we will issue on November 13, 2007. The Press Release will disclose information regarding our results of operations and financial condition for our fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2007.
 
A copy of the Press Release being furnished pursuant to the foregoing Item 2.02 is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 13, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
BENTONVILLE, Ark., Nov. 13, 2007  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) today reported its sales and earnings for the quarter ended Oct. 31, 2007. Net sales for the third quarter of fiscal year 2008 were approximately $90.9 billion, an increase of 8.8 percent over the third quarter of fiscal year 2007. Income from continuing operations for the quarter was $2.86 billion.
Earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.70, up from $0.62 per share in the same prior year quarter. Earnings per share from continuing operations for the third quarter were impacted positively $0.01 per share due to the recognition of $46.5 million in after tax gains from the sale of certain real estate properties.
Net Sales
Net sales were as follows (dollars in billions):
 
"Our results for the third quarter reflect the improved performance of our U.S. operations. Both Wal-Mart Stores U.S. and Sam's Club increased profits faster than sales. Wal-Mart International posted a solid quarter as well," said Lee Scott, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. president and chief executive officer. "Our focus on managing inventory this quarter was very positive.
"During the Christmas and holiday season, our price leadership position will benefit both our customers and the Company," Scott added. "We have set the stage for a successful fourth quarter."
Segment Operating Income
Segment operating income from continuing operations for each of the Company's operating segments, which is defined as income before net interest expense, income taxes, unallocated corporate overhead, minority interest and discontinued operations, was as follows (dollars in billions):
 
As the Company discussed in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, the above measurement of segment operating income was changed starting in the first quarter to be consistent with certain changes to internal management reporting. Therefore, certain direct segment costs that were previously retained and managed as corporate overhead costs are now allocated to the appropriate operating segment.
Comparable Store Sales
The Company reports comparable store sales in this earnings release based on the calendar months in the quarters and the nine-month periods ended Oct. 31, 2007 and 2006. Comparable store sales for the United States were as follows:
 
 
 
Guidance
For the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, the Company estimates the comparable store sales increase in the United States to be between flat and 2 percent, according to Tom Schoewe, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. executive vice president and chief financial officer.
"We expect earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter to be between $0.99 and $1.03, resulting in the full year Company forecast for earnings per share from continuing operations of $3.13 to $3.17," said Schoewe. "This guidance includes an anticipated restructuring charge for Seiyu of approximately $40 million after tax in the fourth quarter."
After this earnings release has been furnished to the SEC, a pre-recorded call offering additional comments on the quarter will be available to all investors. Callers may listen to this call by dialing 203-369-1090. The information included in this release and the pre-recorded phone call will be available in the investor information area on the Company's Web site at .
www.walmartstores.com/investors
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. operates Wal-Mart discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and Sam's Club locations in the United States. The Company operates in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol WMT.
More information about Wal-Mart can be found by visiting . Online merchandise sales are available at and .
www.walmartstores.com
www.walmart.com
www.samsclub.com
This release contains statements as to the Company's estimate of its comparable store sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 and its estimate of its earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 and for all of fiscal year 2008 that Wal-Mart believes are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. These statements can be identified by the use of the word "estimates," "expect" "forecast" and "anticipated" in the statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, domestically and internationally, including, the cost of goods, competitive pressures, geopolitical conditions, inflation, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, changes in the costs of gasoline, diesel fuel, other energy, transportation, utilities, labor and health care, accident costs, casualty and other insurance costs, interest rate fluctuations, capital market conditions, weather conditions, storm-related damage to the Company's facilities, regulatory matters and other risks. The Company discusses certain of these factors more fully in its additional filings with the SEC, including its last annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, and this release should be read in conjunction with that annual report on Form 10-K, together with all of the Company's other filings, including current reports on Form 8-K, made with the SEC through the date of this release. The Company urges you to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this release. As a result of these matters, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, the Company's actual results may differ materially from the expected results discussed in the forward-looking statements contained in this release. The forward-looking statements made in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 


