FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20080814061419.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. is furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K in order to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission a press release (the "Press Release") that we will issue on August 14, 2008. The Press Release will disclose information regarding our results of operations and financial condition for our fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2008.
The Press Release discusses our free cash flow for the six months ended July 31, 2008, which may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our management believes that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating our financial performance. We believe our net cash provided by operating activities to be the financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that is most directly comparable to free cash flow. A reconciliation of our free cash flow to our net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended July 31, 2008 is being furnished as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Press Release also includes information regarding our comparable store sales for our operations in the United States during the periods discussed in the Press Release excluding the fuel sales of our Sam's Club segment. This information is included to show the effect of such fuel sales on our comparable store sales for such periods.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
A copy of the Press Release being furnished pursuant to the foregoing Item 2.02 is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1. The reconciliation of our free cash flow to our net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended July 31, 2008 being furnished pursuant to the foregoing Item 2.02 is included herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: August 14, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
BENTONVILLE, Ark., Aug. 14, 2008  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) today reported its sales and earnings for the quarter ended July 31, 2008. Net sales for the second quarter of fiscal year 2009 were approximately $101.6 billion, an increase of 10.4 percent from $92.0 billion in the second quarter last year.
Income from continuing operations for the second quarter was $3.385 billion, an increase of 9.3 percent from $3.097 billion in the second quarter last year. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal year 2009 increased to $0.86 from the previous year's second quarter result of $0.75 per share (after reclassifying for discontinued operations, as noted below). The prior year included a net benefit of $0.04 per share from three items: the net impact of a reduction of general liability and workers' compensation claim accruals, gains from the sale of certain real estate properties, and charges for legal and other contingencies.
Results of Gazeley Limited, an ASDA commercial development subsidiary that was sold in July 2008, have been reclassified for all periods as discontinued operations. The Company anticipates recording a gain from the Gazeley sale in the third quarter. In addition, there was a $63 million benefit to discontinued operations in this second quarter from the successful resolution of a tax contingency related to McLane Company Ltd., a former Wal-Mart subsidiary. The Company also reported a $153 million charge to discontinued operations in the second quarter of fiscal 2008 for a post-closing adjustment from the sale of its German operations in fiscal 2007.
"The combination of solid operating performance and improved capital efficiency gave us record earnings this quarter and nearly $5 billion in free cash flow in the first half of the fiscal year," said Lee Scott, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. president and chief executive officer. "Our underlying business remains sound as our associates deliver on Wal-Mart's mission to save people money so they can live better."
Net Sales
Net sales were as follows (dollars in billions):
 
Price leadership, enhanced customer service and operational improvements remained the primary drivers of sales growth worldwide, and contributed to earnings and free cash flow. Wal-Mart defines free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, as cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures. A reconciliation of free cash flow for the first half of this fiscal year to the most directly comparable GAAP measure for the same period also is available on a Form 8-K furnished today with the Securities and Exchange Commission and at .
www.walmartstores.com/investors
"We have improved customer traffic and ticket and overall sales growth in our markets," Scott added. "While inflation and higher fuel costs are pressuring suppliers, retailers and customers worldwide, we're confident that Wal-Mart is well positioned for this economy."
Segment Operating Income
Segment operating income for each operating segment, which is defined as income from continuing operations before net interest expense, income taxes, unallocated corporate overhead and minority interest, was as follows (dollars in billions):
 
* During the quarter ending July 31, 2007, the reduction of general liability and workers' compensation accruals, gains from the sale of certain real estate properties and charges for legal and other contingencies contributed, on a net basis, $265 million and $16 million of segment operating income of Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club, respectively.
Comparable Store Sales
The Company reports comparable store sales in this earnings release based on the calendar months in the quarters that ended July 31, 2008 and 2007. Comparable store sales for the United States were as follows:
 
 
Guidance
"For the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, we estimate the Company's comparable store sales increase in the United States to be between one and two percent, which continues to reflect some sales volatility from week to
 
week," said Tom Schoewe, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. executive vice president and chief financial officer. "We expect the Company's earnings per share from continuing operations for the third quarter to be between $0.73 and $0.76 and are raising our current forecast for earnings from continuing operations for the full fiscal year to a range of $3.43 to $3.50 per share."
After this earnings release has been furnished to the SEC, a pre-recorded call offering additional comments on the quarter will be available to all investors. Callers may listen to this call by dialing 203-369-1090. The information included in this release and the pre-recorded phone call are available in the investor information area on the Company's Web site at www.walmartstores.com/investors.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. operates Walmart discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and Sam's Club locations in the United States. The Company operates in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom and, through a joint venture, in India. The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol WMT. More information about Wal-Mart can be found by visiting . Online merchandise sales are available at and .
www.walmartstores.com
www.walmart.com
www.samsclub.com
: The terms "Wal-Mart" and "Wal-Mart Stores" refer to the corporate entity. "Walmart," expressed as one word and without hyphenation, refers to the brand name of the Company's U.S. operations. This distinction came after the Company announced the introduction of a new logo for its U.S. store operations in June.
Ed. Note
This release contains statements as to our management's expectation regarding recording a gain from the sale of Gazeley Limited in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, our management's belief that the Company is well-positioned for this economy, our management's expectations regarding the comparable store sales increase in the United States in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 and the Company's expectations for its diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 and for all of fiscal year 2009 that Wal-Mart believes are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. These statements can be identified by the use of the word "anticipates," "estimate," "expect," "well-positioned" or "forecast" in the statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, domestically and internationally, including, the cost of goods, competitive pressures, geopolitical events and conditions, general economic conditions, consumer credit availability, inflation, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, changes in the costs of gasoline, diesel fuel, other energy, transportation, utilities, labor and health care, accident costs, casualty and other insurance costs, interest rate fluctuations, capital market conditions, weather conditions, damage to the Company's facilities from natural disasters, regulatory matters and other risks. The Company discusses certain of these factors more fully in its additional filings with the SEC, including its last annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, and this release should be read in conjunction with that annual report on Form 10-K, together with all of the Company's other filings, including current reports on Form 8-K, made with the SEC through the date of this release. The Company urges you to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this release. As a result of these matters, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, the Company's actual results may differ materially from the expected results discussed in the forward-looking statements contained in this release. The forward-looking statements made in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
 
(1) Includes cash and cash equivalents of discontinued operations of $70 million and $49 million at January 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
(2) Includes cash and cash equivalents of discontinued operations of $34 million and $21 million at July 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Free Cash Flow
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in the period minus payments for property and equipment made in the period.
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under the SEC's rules Management believes, however, that free cash flow is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company's financial performance, as it measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, net income as a measure of our performance or net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. Additionally, our definition of free cash flow is limited and does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other obligations or payments made for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as supplemental to our entire statement of cash flows.
.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, to free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure (amounts in millions).
 


