FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20080219061805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the "Company") is furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K in order to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission a press release (the "Press Release") that the Company issued on February 19, 2008. The Press Release disclosed information regarding the Company's results of operations and financial condition as of January 31, 2008 and for its fiscal quarter and its fiscal year ended January 31, 2008.
 
A copy of the Press Release being furnished pursuant to the foregoing Item 2.02 is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 19, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
BENTONVILLE, Ark., Feb. 19, 2008  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) today reported its sales and earnings for the quarter ended Jan. 31, 2008. Net sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 were $106.269 billion, an increase of 8.3 percent over the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. Income from continuing operations for the quarter was $4.096 billion, an increase of 4.0 percent from $3.940 billion in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 were $1.02, up 7.4 percent from $0.95 per share in the same prior year quarter, including a net charge of approximately $0.02 per share for certain items this year.
These items included charges of $0.03 for approximately $70 million in after-tax expenses for dropped U.S. real estate projects and an after-tax restructuring charge of $32 million in the Company's Japan operations, and a $0.01 benefit from the recognition of approximately $38 million in after-tax gains from the sale of certain real estate properties.
Net sales for the fiscal year ended Jan. 31, 2008 were $374.526 billion, an increase of 8.6 percent over fiscal year 2007. Income from continuing operations for the fiscal year ended Jan. 31, 2008 increased 5.8 percent to $12.884 billion, up from $12.178 billion in the prior year. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fiscal year ended Jan. 31, 2008 were $3.16, up 8.2 percent from $2.92 in the prior year.
"For the fourth quarter, we topped $100 billion in sales, the first time in history that any retailer has reached this milestone in a single quarter," said Lee Scott, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. president and chief executive officer. "We had a very strong underlying operating performance, exceeding our expectations for the quarter. In addition to another year of record sales and earnings, we also delivered a record return to our shareholders this year through more than $11 billion in share repurchase and dividends."
Scott attributed the strong results to the Company's price leadership and improved customer service, especially at the Wal-Mart Stores U.S. division.
"The price leadership strategy we put in place at the beginning of the year was exactly the right strategy for our customers around the world in a tough economic environment," Scott said. "The combination of price leadership and improved customer service made the difference in the fourth quarter for our U.S. operations, and I also want to thank our Sam's Clubs and International associates for their record performances this year.
"We know that the economy remains a critical factor in this new fiscal year," Scott added. "Customers were more cautious in their spending in January. In a volatile economy, I believe we are well positioned to succeed. We will continue to strengthen our price leadership around the world."
Net Sales
Net sales were as follows (dollars in billions):
 
Segment Operating Income
Segment operating income from continuing operations for each of the Company's operating segments, which is defined as income before net interest expense, income taxes, unallocated corporate overhead, minority interest and discontinued operations, was as follows (dollars in billions):
 
As the Company discussed in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, the above measurement of segment operating income was changed starting in the first quarter to be consistent with certain changes to internal management reporting. As a result of the change, certain direct segment costs that were previously retained and managed as corporate overhead costs are allocated to the appropriate operating segment.
 
Comparable Store Sales
The Company reports comparable store sales in this earnings release based on the calendar months in the quarters and the 12-month periods ended Jan. 31, 2008 and 2007. Comparable store sales for the United States were as follows:
 
 
Guidance
The Company expects diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be between $0.70 and $0.74 for the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, and between $3.30 and $3.43 for the full fiscal year 2009.
After this earnings release has been furnished to the SEC, a pre-recorded call offering additional comments on the quarter will be available to all investors. Callers may listen to this call by dialing 203-369-1090. The information included in this release and the pre-recorded phone call are available in the investor information area on the Company's Web site at .
www.walmartstores.com/investors
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. operates Wal-Mart discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and Sam's Club locations in the United States. The Company operates in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol WMT.
More information about Wal-Mart can be found by visiting . Online merchandise sales are available at and .
www.walmartstores.com
www.walmart.com
www.samsclub.com
This release contains statements as to our management's expectations regarding the Company's price leadership position around the world, and the Company's expectations for its diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and for all of fiscal year 2009 that Wal-Mart believes are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. These statements can be identified by the use of the word "will continue" and "expects" in the statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, domestically and
 
internationally, including, the cost of goods, competitive pressures, geopolitical conditions, general economic conditions, consumer credit availability, inflation, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, changes in the costs of gasoline, diesel fuel, other energy, transportation, utilities, labor and health care, accident costs, casualty and other insurance costs, interest rate fluctuations, capital market conditions, weather conditions, storm-related damage to the Company's facilities, regulatory matters and other risks. The Company discusses certain of these factors more fully in its additional filings with the SEC, including its last annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, and this release should be read in conjunction with that annual report on Form 10-K, together with all of the Company's other filings, including current reports on Form 8-K, made with the SEC through the date of this release. The Company urges you to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this release. As a result of these matters, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, the Company's actual results may differ materially from the expected results discussed in the forward-looking statements contained in this release. The forward-looking statements made in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
 


