FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20081113061030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. is furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K in order to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission a press release (the "Press Release") that we will issue on November 13, 2008. The Press Release will disclose information regarding our results of operations and financial condition for our fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2008.
The Press Release discusses our free cash flow for the nine months ended October 31, 2008 and 2007, which may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our management believes that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating our financial performance. We believe our net cash provided by operating activities to be the financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that is most directly comparable to free cash flow. A reconciliation of our free cash flow to our net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended October 31, 2008 and 2007 is being furnished as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Press Release also includes information regarding our comparable store sales for our operations in the United States during the periods discussed in the Press Release excluding the fuel sales of our Sam's Club segment. This information is included to show the effect of such fuel sales on our comparable store sales for such periods.
 
A copy of the Press Release being furnished pursuant to the foregoing Item 2.02 is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1. The reconciliation of our free cash flow to our net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended October 31, 2008 and 2007 being furnished pursuant to the foregoing Item 2.02 is included herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 13, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
BENTONVILLE, Ark., Nov. 13, 2008  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) today reported its sales and earnings for the quarter ended Oct. 31, 2008. Net sales for the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 were $97.6 billion, an increase of 7.5 percent from $90.8 billion in the third quarter last year.
Income from continuing operations for the third quarter was $3.033 billion, an increase of 6.6 percent from $2.846 billion in the third quarter last year. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 increased to $0.77 from the previous year's third quarter result of $0.70 per share. The prior year included a net benefit of $0.01 per share due to the recognition of $46.5 million in after-tax gains from the sale of certain real estate properties.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, the Company recorded a $107 million after-tax charge related to store closures and property divestitures at Seiyu in Japan and a $212 million after-tax gain on the disposal of Gazeley Limited which was sold in July 2008. These operations have been accounted for as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
"We are very pleased with our results this quarter," said Lee Scott, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. president and chief executive officer. "Despite economic difficulties around the world, we achieved solid sales and earnings growth and we are optimistic about the upcoming holidays. At a time when our customer is feeling the pressure of a tough economy, Wal-Mart's price leadership is more important than ever.
"Improved operating performance and capital efficiency contributed to stronger earnings and free cash flow," Scott added. "The credit for our performance goes to the more than 2 million associates serving more than 175 million customers in 14 countries every week."
Net Sales
Net sales were as follows (dollars in billions):
 
"Our sales results reflect the improved customer experience and sharper merchandising presentation at Walmart U.S., as well as higher traffic at Sam's Club among both Business and Advantage members," Scott said. "International remains Wal-Mart's fastest-growing business, proving that our mission of saving people money so they can live better resonates with customers everywhere we do business."
Free cash flow increased to approximately $2.0 billion for the first nine months of fiscal year 2009, compared to a deficit of $1.3 billion for the same period last year. Wal-Mart defines free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, as cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures. A reconciliation of free cash flow for the first nine months of this fiscal year to the most directly comparable GAAP measure for the same period is available on Form 8-K furnished today with the Securities and Exchange Commission and at .
www.walmartstores.com/investors
Segment Operating Income
Segment operating income for each operating segment, which is defined as income from continuing operations before net interest expense, income taxes, unallocated corporate overhead and minority interest, was as follows (dollars in billions):
 
Comparable Store Sales
The Company reports comparable store sales in this earnings release based on the calendar months in the quarters that ended Oct. 31, 2008 and 2007. Comparable store sales for the United States were as follows:
 
 
Guidance
For the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, the Company estimates the comparable store sales increase in the United States to be between one and three percent, according to Tom Schoewe, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. executive vice president and chief financial officer.
"We estimate diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter will be between $1.03 and $1.07," Schoewe said. "The rapid changes in currency exchange rates during the last few weeks are projected to negatively affect this year's fourth-quarter results by approximately six cents per share. In U.S. dollar terms, strong operating performance in International may be overshadowed by these currency fluctuations.
"For the full year, ending January 31, we have tightened and modestly reduced our guidance and now forecast diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be within a range of $3.42 to $3.46," he said.
After this earnings release has been furnished to the SEC, a pre-recorded call offering additional comments on the quarter will be available to all investors. Callers may listen to this call by dialing 203-369-1090. The information included in this release and the pre-recorded phone call are available in the investor information area on the Company's Web site at .
www.walmartstores.com/investors
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. operates Walmart discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and Sam's Club locations in the United States. The Company operates in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom and, through a joint venture, in India. The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol WMT. More information about Wal-Mart can be found by visiting . Online merchandise sales are available at and .
www.walmartstores.com
www.walmart.com
www.samsclub.com
This release contains statements as to our management's expectations regarding the comparable store sales increase in the United States in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, the Company's expectations for its diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 and for all of fiscal year 2009, and our management's expectation that currency exchange rates and related issues will be detrimental to comparisons between results for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 and those for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 that Wal-Mart believes are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. These statements can be identified by the use of the word "anticipate," "estimate," "may be," forecast" or "projected" in the statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, domestically and internationally, including general economic conditions, the cost of goods, competitive pressures, geopolitical events and conditions, consumer credit availability, inflation, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, changes in the costs of gasoline, diesel fuel, other energy, transportation, utilities, labor and health care, accident costs, casualty and other insurance costs, interest rate fluctuations, financial and capital market conditions, weather conditions, damage to the Company's facilities from natural disasters, regulatory matters and other risks. The Company discusses certain of these factors more fully in its additional filings with the SEC, including its last annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, and this release should be read in conjunction with that annual report on Form 10-K, together with all of the Company's other filings, including current reports on Form 8-K, made with the SEC through the date of this release. The Company urges you to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this release. As a result of these matters, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, the Company's actual results may differ materially from the expected results discussed in the forward-looking statements contained in this release. The forward-looking statements made in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Free Cash Flow
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in the period minus payments for property and equipment made in the period. We generated positive free cash flow of $2.0 billion for the nine months ended October 31, 2008, compared to a deficit of $1.3 billion in the prior year. The significant increase in our free cash flow is the result of our improved inventory management as well as reduced capital expenditures in connection with our planned slowing of store expansion in the United States.
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under the SEC's rules Management believes, however, that free cash flow is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company's financial performance, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, net income as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity.
.
Additionally, our definition of free cash flow is limited, in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our entire statement of cash flows.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, to free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure.
 


