FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20081121083609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On November 15, 2008, H. Lee Scott, Jr., president and chief executive officer of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the "Company"), notified the Company that he will retire from his position as president and chief executive officer, effective on the close of business on January 31, 2009. On February 1, 2009, Mr. Scott will continue in his capacity as Chairman of the Executive Committee to the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") and Mr. Scott will continue to be employed as an associate of the Company through January 31, 2011. Mr. Scott will also continue his service as a director on the Board.
(c) On November 20, 2008, the Board appointed Michael T. Duke, age 58, as president and chief executive officer of the Company, effective February 1, 2009. Mr. Duke was also elected to the Board on November 20, 2008. Since September 2005, Mr. Duke has served as the Company's vice chairman with responsibility for Wal-Mart International and he will continue in that role through January 31, 2009. Prior to becoming the Company's vice chairman, Mr. Duke served as the executive vice president and president and chief executive officer of Walmart U.S. beginning in April 2003. Before leading Walmart U.S., Mr. Duke served as the Company's executive vice president of administration. Mr. Duke joined the Company in July 1995 as the senior vice president of logistics later becoming the Company's executive vice president of logistics.
On November 20, 2008, the Board also appointed Eduardo Castro-Wright, age 53, effective immediately, as a vice chairman of the Company, with continued responsibility for Walmart U.S. and the additional responsibility for the Company's global procurement operation. Since September 2005, Mr. Castro-Wright has served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer of Walmart U.S. From February 2005 to September 2005, he served as executive vice president and chief operating officer, Walmart U.S. Prior to joining Walmart U.S., Mr. Castro-Wright served as president and chief executive officer of Wal-Mart de Mexico beginning in December 2002.
The Company issued a press release on November 21, 2008 announcing Mr. Scott's new role, the appointments of Mr. Duke and Mr. Castro-Wright in their new roles and the election of Mr. Duke to the Board. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The following information indirectly involving Mr. Duke was reported under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008 ("fiscal 2008") and was disclosed in the Company's 2008 proxy statement filed on April 22, 2008. Stephen P. Weber, a manager in the Company's Information Systems Division, is the son-in-law of Mr. Duke. For fiscal 2008, the Company paid Mr. Weber a salary of $97,288 and a bonus of $22,258 and other benefits totaling $12,517 (including contributions by the Company to Mr. Weber's Profit Sharing/401(k) Plan account and health insurance premiums). Mr. Weber also received a grant of stock options to purchase 314 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $47.26 per share and 213 restricted stock rights. Mr. Weber continues to serve as a Wal-Mart Associate and for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2009 ("fiscal 2009"), the Company has paid Mr. Weber $88,047 in salary to date. Mr. Weber also received a grant of 276 restricted stock rights in fiscal 2009 and he continues to receive benefits substantially equivalent to the benefits he received in fiscal 2008.
The following information indirectly involving Mr. Castro-Wright was reported under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K for fiscal 2008 and was disclosed in the Company's 2008 proxy statement filed on April 22, 2008. Mauricio Castro-Wright, a director of operations in Brazil, is the brother of Mr. Castro-Wright. For fiscal 2008, the Company paid Mr. Mauricio Castro-Wright a salary of $196,837 and a bonus of $114,006 and other benefits having a value of $85,675 (including contributions by the Company to Mr. Mauricio Castro-Wright's Profit Sharing/401(k) Plan account, SERP account, and payments related to his expatriate assignment). Mr. Mauricio Castro-Wright also received a grant of stock options to purchase 733 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $47.26 per share and 496 restricted stock rights. Mr. Mauricio Castro-Wright continues to serve as a director of operations in Brazil and for fiscal 2009 the Company has paid Mr. Mauricio Castro-Wright $163,490 in salary to date. Mr. Mauricio Castro-Wright also
 
received a grant of 919 restricted stock rights in fiscal 2009 and he continues to receive benefits substantially equivalent to the benefits he received in fiscal 2008.
The Company entered into a covenant not to compete agreement with Mr. Duke in May 1998, amended December 2005, and with Mr. Castro-Wright in July 2001, amended December 2005. The form of the covenant not to compete agreement is substantially similar to the form of covenant not to compete agreement entered into with executive officers of the Company that is attached as Exhibit 10(o) to the Company's Form 10-K/A filed on August 26, 2004. The form of the amendment to the covenant not to compete agreement is substantially similar to the form of amendment entered into with executive officers that is attached as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Form 8-K filed on December 12, 2005. The covenant not to compete agreements, as amended, prohibit Messrs. Duke and Castro-Wright, for a period of two years following their termination of employment with the Company for any reason, from participating in a business that competes with the Company and from soliciting the Company's associates for employment. The covenant not to compete agreements, as amended, also provide that, if Messrs. Duke and Castro-Wright are terminated from the Company for any reason, other than their violation of the Company's policies, the Company will continue to pay their base salaries for two years following termination of employment, less any earnings they receive from other employment. The covenant not to compete agreement for Mr. Duke also provided for a stock option grant equal to 100 percent of his base salary at the time of execution in 1998.
(d) Mr. Duke was also elected to the Board on November 20, 2008 and there were no compensatory arrangements entered into in connection with his election to the Board. Mr. Duke was appointed to the Board's Executive Committee and Stock Option Committee.
(e) On November 20, 2008, the Company entered into an agreement with Mr. Scott, which will continue through January 31, 2011 (the "Agreement"). The Agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The Agreement was approved by the independent Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board (the "CNGC") on November 19, 2008. Beginning February 1, 2009, Mr. Scott's salary will be $1.1 million on an annual basis, he will not be eligible to participate in the Company's Management Incentive Plan and his unvested stock options, restricted stock and performance shares will continue to vest in the normal course through January 31, 2011, with several exceptions. Mr. Scott will forfeit 25 percent of the 208,508 target performance shares he received on January 22, 2007, 25 percent of the 55,608 target performance shares he received on March 26, 2007, and 50 percent of the 299,496 target performance shares he received on January 21, 2008. Based on the Company's policy, the Company will accelerate certain restricted stock grants that are scheduled to vest at age 65, following his retirement after January 31, 2011. The Agreement, which also operates as an amendment to Mr. Scott's covenant not to compete agreement, extends the non-competition and non-solicitation provisions through March 14, 2016.
Based upon approval by the CNGC on November 19, 2008 and in connection with his appointment as president and chief executive officer of the Company by the Board on November 20, 2008, effective on February 1, 2009, Mr. Duke received a performance-based restricted stock award for 39,216 shares of the Company's common stock, with vesting to occur on January 31, 2012, so long as the performance metrics are attained, and he remains employed through the vesting date. Based upon approval by the CNGC on November 19, 2008 and effective upon his appointment as a vice chairman of the Company by the Board on November 20, 2008, Mr. Castro-Wright received a performance-based restricted stock award for 39,216 shares of the Company's common stock, with vesting to occur June 30, 2010, so long as the performance metrics are attained, and he remains employed through the vesting date.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 21, 2008
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and entered into on the 20th day of November, 2008, by and between H. Lee Scott, Jr. ("Mr. Scott" ) and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its affiliates and subsidiaries (collectively, "Wal-Mart").
on November 15, 2008, Mr. Scott notified the Company of his intent to retire as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective on the close of business on January 31, 2009; and
WHEREAS,
, the Company desires to continue to employ Mr. Scott through January 31, 2011, as described herein, and Mr. Scott wishes to continue such employment, on the terms, provisions and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS
, for good and sufficient consideration, the sufficiency of which the parties acknowledge, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) today announced that its board of directors has elected Mike Duke, 58, to succeed Lee Scott as president and chief executive officer, effective February 1, 2009. Duke was also elected to the company's board of directors, effective immediately. Scott will continue serving as chairman of the executive committee of the board.
BENTONVILLE, Ark., November 21, 2008
The board also approved the promotion of Eduardo Castro-Wright, 53, to vice chairman of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., effective immediately. In addition to his current responsibilities as president and CEO of Walmart U.S., Castro-Wright will assume management responsibility for the company's Global Procurement operation.
"This management change occurs at a time of strength and momentum for Wal-Mart," said Rob Walton, chairman of the Wal-Mart board of directors. "Our overall management team has never been stronger. We are confident that the strategy we have in place is the right one for future success and Mike has been actively involved in developing and executing this strategy. We are also pleased that our succession and management development process continues to develop leaders internally."
"Mike Duke is a highly-respected executive both domestically and internationally, with broad experience throughout the company, having successfully led Wal-Mart's Logistics Division, U.S. operations, and International operations," said Walton. "He understands retail and appreciates the complex global environment in which we operate. He is committed to the culture of Wal-Mart, its mission, and to our associates and customers. He has built strong teams wherever he has led."
"Eduardo Castro-Wright has a history of delivering results for our company," said Walton. "As president of Walmart U.S., Eduardo has a vision for our brand, and has built a strong team of senior leaders who have led the business to its current market-leading performance. We believe his international experience will also help drive success in our global procurement organization."
"I am looking forward to leading this great company," Duke said. "Wal-Mart is very well positioned in today's economy, growing market share and returns, and is more relevant to its customers than ever. Our strategy is sound and our management team is extremely capable. I am confident we will continue to deliver value to our shareholders, increase opportunity for our over 2 million associates, and help our 180 million customers around the world save money and live better."
"Lee Scott has made an extraordinary contribution to Wal-Mart during his almost thirty years of service as an associate, and as our president and CEO for the last nine years," Walton said. "Lee has led Wal-Mart with humility and grace, and has been a worthy successor to his predecessors, Sam Walton and David Glass."
Walton continued, "Lee has earned the respect and affection of our associates around the world, and of the Walton family. My dad would have been proud of Lee and his accomplishments. Lee brought a remarkable focus to our mission of saving people money so they could live better, and a heightened sensitivity to Wal-Mart's role in the world. The actions taken during his tenure will benefit the company, our associates and our customers for years to come. We are pleased that Lee will serve as an advisor to Mike for a period of time, much as David Glass did for Lee."
"It has been an honor to serve as the CEO of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and to work with our dedicated Wal-Mart and Sam's Club associates around the world," said Lee Scott. "And it has been a privilege to lead the company Sam Walton created, a company that continues to live the mission and culture he established."
The company indicated that it plans to make an announcement on Duke's successor as president of Wal-Mart International by the end of the fiscal year.
NOTE: Bios of Mike Duke, Eduardo Castro-Wright and Lee Scott are available at: . A high resolution photo of Mike Duke is also available for downloading from the site.
http://www.walmartstores.com
About Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT)
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. operates Walmart discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and Sam's Club locations in the United States. The Company operates in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom and, through a joint venture, in India. The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol WMT. More information about Wal-Mart can be found by visiting www.walmartstores.com. Online merchandise sales are available at www.walmart.com and www.samsclub.com.


