FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20080125163323.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
January 21, 2008
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
702 S.W. 8th Street
Bentonville, Arkansas 72716
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(479) 273-4000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 21, 2008, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the Company) entered into a separation agreement (the Agreement) with John B. Menzer, Vice Chairman, Chief Administrative Officer of the Company. The Company announced on January 18, 2008 that Mr. Menzer will retire from the Company on March 1, 2008 (the Departure Date). Under the Agreement, which was reviewed and approved by the Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee of the Companys Board of Directors, Mr. Menzer is entitled to certain conditional benefits following his departure from the Company. The Agreement supersedes a post-termination agreement and covenant not to compete to which the Company and Mr. Menzer were previously parties.
 
Under the terms of the Agreement, Mr. Menzer is obligated not to compete with the Company for a period of three years from the Departure Date. Mr. Menzer is also subject to certain confidentiality, cooperation, non-disclosure and non-solicitation obligations. Pursuant to the Agreement, Mr. Menzer will receive transition payments totaling $6,710,916 over the two year period following the Departure Date, subject to his compliance with the obligations described above. The Agreement also provides that the vesting of 222,404 shares of restricted stock held by Mr. Menzer will be accelerated to the Departure Date.
 
A copy of the Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
SEPARATION AGREEMENT
 
This Separation Agreement (the Agreement) is made and entered into on the 21st day of January, 2008, between John B. Menzer(the Associate) and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its affiliates and subsidiaries (collectively Wal-Mart).
 
 
WHEREAS,
the Associate and Wal-Mart wish to express the understandings and agreements they have reached concerning the Associates separation from employment and have set forth those understandings and agreements in this Agreement;
 
NOW, THEREFORE
, for good and sufficient consideration, the sufficiency of which the parties acknowledge, the parties agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
incentive plans that are not vested as of the Separation Date shall be forfeited and cancelled as of the Separation Date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
expenses incidental to any such cooperation provided to Wal-Mart, based upon mutually agreeable terms and conditions to be negotiated by the parties.
 
 
 
 
b)   For purposes of this Agreement, the term Competing Business shall include any general or specialty retail, wholesale, or merchandising business that sells goods or merchandise of the types sold by Wal-Mart at retail to consumers that is: (i) located within the United States, or any other country in which Wal-Mart or its affiliates either operate a store or are known by Associate to have plans to open or acquire an operation within the Non-Compete Period, and that (ii) has gross annual sales volume or revenues attributable to its retail operations in excess of U.S. $2 billion, or is reasonably expected to have gross sales volume or revenues of more than U.S. $2 billion in either the current fiscal year or the next following fiscal year. Competing Business as of the date of this Agreement shall specifically include, but is not limited to, the following companies and any successor thereto: Target Corporation, Costco Co. Inc., Best Buy Co., Inc., The Home Depot, Inc., Dollar General Corp., Family Dollar Stores, Inc., Kohls Corporation, Hudsons Bay Company, Carrefour S.A., The Kroger Co., Tesco plc, Metro AG, Koninklijke Ahold N.V., J C Penny Co., Inc., Sears Holdings Corp., Aldi Einkauf GmbH & Co. oHG, Lidl Stiftung & Co. KG, J Sainsbury plc, WM Morrison Supermarkets Plc, Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd., AEON Co., Ltd, Groupe Auchan SA, Toys R Us, Inc., Loblaw Companies Limited, Casino Guichard-Perrachon S.A., Woolworths Ltd (Australia), Grupo Gigante, S.A. de C.V., Controladora Comercial Mexicana S.A. de C.V., Organizacion Soriana S.A. de C.V., Dollar Tree Stores, Inc., Reliance Industries Limited, and Safeway Inc. (USA) and Plc (UK).
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
Exhibit A
 
SPECIAL STOCK OPTION GRANT, POST-TERMINATION
AGREEMENT AND COVENANT NOT TO COMPETE
 
This Special Stock Option Grant, Post-Termination Agreement, and Covenant Not to Compete is entered into this 23rd day of July, 1998 by and between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (hereinafter Wal-Mart) and John B. Menzer (hereinafter the Associate). The parties agree as follows:
 
 
(A) Wal-Mart is a major retail operation, with stores located throughout the United States and in certain foreign locations;
 
(B) the Associate presently holds a position as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Wal-Mart, and is a key executive as defined by the Executive Committee;
 
(C) as an essential part of its business, Wal-Mart has cultivated long term customer and vendor relationships and goodwill, which are difficult to develop and maintain, which require a significant investment of time, effort, and expense, and which can suffer significantly upon the departure of key executives;
 
(D) in the development of its business, Wal-Mart has also expended a significant amount of time, money, and effort in developing and maintaining confidential, proprietary, and trade secret information which, if disclosed or misused, could harm Wal-Marts business and its competitive position in the retail marketplace;
 
(E) as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Associate has access to confidential and proprietary trade secret information and other confidential information, including business plans and strategies, that would be of considerable value to Wal-Marts competitors; and
 
(F) Wal-Mart is entitled to take appropriate steps to ensure (i) that its Associates do not make use of confidential information gained during the course of their employment with Wal-Mart and (ii) that no individual associate or competing entity gains an unfair competitive advantage over Wal-Mart.
 
2.
SPECIAL STOCK OPTION GRANT.
If the Associate executes this Agreement on or before July 31, 1998, Wal-Mart will award to the Associate a Special Stock Option Grant equivalent to One Hundred Percent (100%) of the Associates base salary in effect on the date of this Agreement. The Special Stock Option Grant will be in addition to any other stock options, restricted stock, stock grants, or similar entitlements that the employee may receive, or may previously have received, under any other plan or program maintained by Wal-Mart. The Special Stock Option Grant will vest in seven equal annual installments commencing one (1) year from the date of the grant, and shall in all regards be governed by the terms of the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Option Plan.
 
3.
TRANSITION PAYMENTS.
In the event that Wal-Mart should initiate the termination of the Associates employment, Wal-Mart will, for a period of two (2) years from the effective date of such termination (the Transition Period), continue to pay the Associate his or her base salary at the rate in effect on the date of termination, subject to such withholding as may be required by law and subject to the following conditions and offsets:
 
(A) Transition Payments will not be payable if the Associate is terminated as the result of a violation of Wal-Mart policy;
 
(B) In the event that the Associate is demoted or reassigned so that he or she ceases to be a key executive as defined or determined by the Executive Committee, the Associate will no longer be bound by the Covenant Not to Compete set forth in Paragraph 4 below and will cease to be eligible for any of the benefits or payments (e.g., Transition Payments) provided by this Agreement. In addition, it is understood that, upon ceasing to be a key executive, the Associate would forfeit the stock options granted by this Agreement, but only to the extent that those options have not vested as of the date of demotion or reassignment;
 
(C) No Transition Payments will be payable if the Associate voluntarily resigns or retires from his or her employment with Wal-Mart;
 
(D) Given the availability of other programs designed to provide financial protection in such circumstances, Transition Payments will not be payable under this Agreement in the event of the Associates death or disability. If the Associate should die during the Transition Period, Transition Payments will cease at that time, and his or her heirs will have no entitlement to the continuation of such payments. Transition Payments will not be affected by the disability of the Associate during the Transition Period.
 
(E) Transition Payments will be offset by any amounts that the Associate may earn during the Transition Period by virtue of self-employment or employment with, or involvement in, an entity other than a Competing Business as defined in Paragraph 4(B) below. Violation by the Associate of his obligations under Paragraph 4 or Paragraph 5 below, or any other act that is materially harmful to Wal-Marts business interests, during the, Transition Period will result in the immediate termination of Transition Payments in addition to arty other remedies that may be available to Wal-Mart;
 
(F) Transition Payments will be payable on such regularly scheduled paydays as may be adopted and instituted by Wal-Mart for its other salaried employees.
 
(G) Receipt of Transition Payments will not entitle the Associate to participate during the Transition Period in any of the other incentive, stock option, profit sharing, or other associate benefit plans or programs maintained by Wal-Mart, and the Associate shall be entitled to participate in such plans or programs only to the extent that the terms of the plan or program provide for participation by former associates. Such participation, if any, shall be governed by the terms of the applicable plan or program.
 
4.
COVENANT NOT TO COMPETE.
In exchange for the Special Stock Option Grant set forth in Paragraph 2, for his or her inclusion in the Transition Payment program set forth in Paragraph 3, and for other good and valuable consideration, the Associate agrees, promises, and covenants as follows:
 
(A) For a period of two (2) years from the date on which his or her employment with Wal-Mart terminates, and regardless of the cause or reason for such termination, the Associate will not directly or indirectly
 
(i) own, manage, operate, finance, join, control, advise, consult, render services to, have a current or future interest in, or participate in the ownership, management, operation, financing, or control of, or be employed by or connected in any manner with, any Competing Business as defined below in Paragraph 4(B); or
 
(ii) solicit for employment, hire or offer employment to, or otherwise aid or assist any person or entity other than Wal-Mart in soliciting for employment, hiring, or offering employment to, any employee of Wal-Mart or any of its affiliates;
 
(B) For purposes of this Agreement, the term Competing Business shall include any general or specialty retail, wholesale, or merchandising business that sells goods or merchandise of the types sold by Wal-Mart at retail to consumers that (i) is located within the United States or any other country in which Wal-Mart or its affiliates either operate a store or are known to the Associate to have plans to open or acquire an operation within the next twenty-four (24) months, and (ii) that has gross annual sales volume or revenues attributable to its retail operations in excess of U.S. $2 billion or is reasonably expected to have gross sales volume or revenues of more than U.S. $2 billion in either the current fiscal year or the next following fiscal year. Competing Business as of the date of this Agreement shall specifically include, but is not limited to, such entities as Target/Dayton Hudson, Costco, K-Mart, Home Depot, Dollar General, Family Dollar, Kohls, Hudson Bay Company, Carrefour, HEB, and Fred Meyers.
 
(C) Ownership of an investment of less than the greater of $25,000 or 1% of any class of equity or debt security of a Competing Business will not be deemed ownership or participation in ownership of a Competing Business for purposes of this Agreement.
 
(D) The covenant not to compete contained in this Paragraph 4 shall be binding upon the Associate, and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of whether the Associate qualifies, or continues to remain eligible, for the Transition Payments described in Paragraph 3 above. Termination of the Transition Payments pursuant to Paragraph 3 will not release the Associate from his or her obligations under this Paragraph 4.
 
5.
PRESERVATION OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
The Associate agrees that he or she will not at any time, directly or indirectly, use or disclose any Confidential Information obtained during the course of his or her employment with Wal-Mart except as may be authorized by Wal-Mart. Confidential Information shall include any non-public information pertaining to Wal-Marts business, and shall include information obtained by the Associate during the course of, or as a result of, his or her employment with Wal-Mart, including, without limitation, information regarding Wal-Marts processes, suppliers (including the terms, conditions, or other business arrangements with such suppliers), advertising and marketing plans and strategies, profit margins, seasonal plans, goals, objectives and projections, compilations, analyses, and projections regarding Wal-Marts business, trade secrets, salary, staffing, compensation, and other employment data, and any know-how, techniques, practice or any technical information not of a published nature regarding Wal-Marts business.
 
6.
REMEDIES FOR BREACH
. The parties shall each be entitled to pursue all legal and equitable rights and remedies to secure performance of their respective obligations and duties under this Agreement, and enforcement of one or more of these rights and remedies will not preclude the parties from pursuing any other rights and remedies. The Associate acknowledges that a breach of the provisions of Paragraph 4 or Paragraph 5 above could result in substantial and irreparable damage to Wal-Marts business, and that the restrictions contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 are a reasonable attempt by Wal-Mart to protect its rights and to safeguard its confidential information. The Associate expressly agrees that upon a breach or a threatened breach by the Associate of the provisions of Paragraph 4 or Paragraph 5, Wal-Mart will be entitled to injunctive relief to restrain such violation, and the Associate hereby expressly consents to the entry of such temporary, preliminary, and/or permanent injunctive relief as may be necessary to enjoin the violation of Paragraph 4 or Paragraph 5. The parties further agree that any action relating to the interpretation, validity, or enforcement of this Agreement shall be brought in the appropriate state or federal court encompassing Benton County, Arkansas, and the parties hereby expressly consent to the jurisdiction of such courts. The Associate further agrees that in any claim or action involving the execution, interpretation, validity, or enforcement of this Agreement, he or she will seek satisfaction exclusively from the assets of Wal-Mart, and will hold harmless all of Wal-Marts individual directors, officers, employees, and representatives.
 
7.
SEVERABILITY.
In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction shall determine that any portion of this Agreement is invalid or otherwise unenforceable, the parties agree that the remaining portions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. The parties also expressly agree that if any portion of the covenant not to compete set forth in Paragraph 4 shall be deemed unenforceable, then the Agreement shall automatically be deemed to have been amended to incorporate such terms as will render the covenant enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law.
 
8.
NATURE OF THE RELATIONSHIP.
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed to constitute a contract of employment for a definite term. The parties acknowledge that the Associate is not employed by Wal-Mart for a definite term, and that either party may sever the employment relationship at any time and for any reason not otherwise prohibited by law.
 
9.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
This document contains the entire understanding and agreement between the Associate and Wal-Mart regarding the subject matter of this Agreement. This Agreement supersedes and replaces any and all prior understandings or agreements between the parties regarding this subject, and no representations or statements by either party shall be deemed binding unless contained herein.
 
10.
MODIFICATION.
This Agreement may not be amended, modified, or altered except in a writing signed by both parties or their designated representatives.
 
11.
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.
This Agreement will inure to the benefit of, and will be binding upon, Wal-Mart, its successors and assigns, and on the Associate and his or her heirs, successors, and assigns. No rights or obligations under this Agreement may be assigned to any other person without the express written consent of all parties hereto.
 
12.
COUNTERPARTS.
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, in which case each of the two counterparts will be deemed to be an original and the final counterpart will be deemed to have been executed in Bentonville, Arkansas.
 
13.
GOVERNING LAW.
This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Arkansas.
 
14.
STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING.
By signing below, the Associate acknowledges (a) that he or she has received a copy of this Agreement, (b) that he or she has read the Agreement carefully before signing it, (c) that he or she has had ample opportunity to ask questions concerning the Agreement and has had the opportunity to discuss the Agreement with legal counsel of his or her own choosing, and (d) that he or she understands his or her rights and obligations under this Agreement, and enters into this Agreement voluntarily.
 
 
WAL-MART STORES, INC.
 
 
 
 
AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT
 
This Amendment to Agreement (Amendment) is made and entered into on the 12th day of December, 2005, between John B. Menzer (the Associate), and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its affiliates and subsidiaries (collectively Wal-Mart).
 
WHEREAS,
The Associate and Wal-Mart have entered into an agreement concerning, among other things, restrictions on the Associates employment after terminating from employment with Wal-Mart (the Transition Agreement); and
 
WHEREAS
, by this Amendment the Associate and Wal-Mart wish to amend certain provisions of the Transition Agreement relating to post-employment payments by Wal-Mart to the Associate;
 
NOW THEREFORE
, for good and sufficient consideration, the sufficiency of which the parties acknowledge, the parties agree as follows:
 
1.
    
Transition Payments.
The Associate and Wal-Mart agree that the existing language in the Transition Agreement concerning the timing of post-employment payments shall be superseded by the following language:
 
The Associate will receive Transition Payments based on the Associates base salary on the date of termination (the Salary). The first Transition Payment shall be an amount equal to six months Salary, less applicable withholding, and shall be paid on the date of termination or as soon thereafter as practical. Subsequent Transition Payments shall commence at the end of the regularly scheduled pay period six months after the date of termination, and each such payment shall be an amount equal to the Associates biweekly Salary payment, less applicable withholding, which will continue for the period set forth in the Transition Agreement.
 
 
 
Exhibit B
 
 
 
 


