FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20090217071611.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. is furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K in order to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission a press release (the "Press Release") that we will issue on February 17, 2009. The Press Release will disclose information regarding our results of operations and financial condition for our fiscal year ended January 31, 2009 ("Fiscal Year 2009") and our fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2009 (the "2009 Fourth Quarter").
The Press Release provides information regarding certain financial measures that may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Those financial measures include:
 
 
 
Our management believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations and financial condition as to the periods for which they are presented for the following reasons:
 
 
 
 
The Press Release includes a reconciliation of each such non-GAAP financial measure to the most nearly comparable financial measure that is calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
 
A copy of the Press Release being furnished pursuant to the foregoing Item 2.02 is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 17, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
BENTONVILLE, Ark., Feb. 17, 2009  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) today reported sales and earnings for the quarter and the year ended Jan. 31, 2009. Net sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 were $107.996 billion, an increase of 1.7 percent from $106.208 billion in the fourth quarter last year. Income from continuing operations for the quarter was $3.792 billion, a decrease of 7.7 percent from $4.110 billion in the fourth quarter last year. Without a litigation settlement charge and the effect of unfavorable currency exchange rates, income from continuing operations would have been positive on a comparable basis.
Reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations ("reported EPS") for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 were $0.96, exceeding the company's most recent guidance of $0.91 to $0.94. The underlying diluted earnings per share from continuing operations ("underlying EPS") were $1.03. Underlying EPS represents reported EPS in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for charges from the settlement of 63 U.S. class action wage and hour lawsuits (the "litigation charge") of approximately $255 million on an after-tax basis for the fourth quarter. A reconciliation of reported and underlying EPS (a non-GAAP measure) for the full year and fourth quarter is provided in a schedule at the end of this release.
Last year, Wal-Mart earned $1.03 per share from continuing operations in the fourth quarter, which included a net charge of approximately $0.02 per share for real estate transactions and certain restructuring of its Japanese operations.
Net sales for the fiscal year were $401.244 billion, an increase of 7.2 percent over fiscal year 2008. Income from continuing operations increased 3.0 percent to $13.254 billion, up from $12.863 billion in the prior year. Reported EPS for fiscal year 2009 was $3.35, up 6.0 percent from $3.16 in the prior year. Underlying EPS was $3.42, excluding the litigation charge.
"Wal-Mart recorded the strongest sales result in its history in the fourth quarter, with $108 billion in sales," said Mike Duke, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. president and chief executive officer. "We achieved this through the hard work of our associates, helping our customers save money so they can live better.
"Our performance relative to competitors was exceptionally strong in the fourth quarter and throughout the year. We expect this momentum to continue," Duke said. "We finished the year with a strong balance sheet, record free cash flow of $11.6 billion and great inventory management. Our company created approximately 63,000 jobs worldwide this year, including more than 33,000 in the United States. In addition, Wal-Mart remains
well-positioned to continue to serve our customers in a challenging environment because of its strong price leadership."
A reconciliation of free cash flow (a non-GAAP measure) is attached at the end of this release.
Net Sales
Net sales were as follows (dollars in billions):
 
Reported International sales were negatively affected by the lower value of currencies versus the U.S. dollar. On a constant currency basis (assuming currency exchange rates remained the same as the prior year), International sales increased 9.0 percent in the fourth quarter and 11.6 percent for the full fiscal year.
Segment Operating Income
Segment operating income from continuing operations, which is defined as income before net interest expense, income taxes, unallocated corporate overhead, minority interest and discontinued operations for each operating segment, was as follows (dollars in billions):
 
Reported International operating income also was negatively affected by the lower value of currencies versus the U.S. dollar. On a constant currency basis (assuming currency exchange rates remained the same as the prior year), International operating income increased 5.1 percent in the fourth quarter and 10.2 percent for the full fiscal year.
 
Comparable Store Sales
The company reports comparable store sales in this earnings release based on the calendar months in the quarters and the 12-month periods ended Jan. 31, 2009 and 2008. The 2009 fiscal year benefited from the addition of one sales day on Feb. 29, due to leap year. Comparable store sales for the United States were as follows:
 
Guidance
The company expects reported EPS to be between $0.72 and $0.77 for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, and between $3.45 and $3.60 for the full year.
"Our guidance reflects the strength of our underlying business and global economic conditions," said Tom Schoewe, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. executive vice president and chief financial officer. "It assumes that currency exchange rates will remain relatively the same as they were at the end of our 2009 fiscal year, which would have a negative impact on our year-over-year comparison of fiscal 2010 EPS of approximately 13 cents per share."
On Feb. 5, Wal-Mart announced that it would provide comparable store sales guidance every 13 weeks, instead of monthly, based on the National Retail Federation's 4-5-4 week calendar. The company said it expects U.S. comparable sales without fuel during the period from Jan. 31 through May 1 to increase between one and three percent. Wal-Mart will provide guidance for the next 13-week period on May 7.
The financial statements reflect the disposal of Gazeley, Ltd., the former U.K. property development subsidiary of ASDA, and the restructuring activities that took place at The Seiyu Ltd. in Japan during the year as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
After this earnings release has been furnished to the SEC, a pre-recorded call offering additional comments on the quarter will be available to all investors. Callers may listen to this call by dialing 203-369-1090. The information included in this release, including reconciliations, and the pre-recorded phone call is available in the investor information area on the company's Web site at .
www.walmartstores.com/investors
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. operates Walmart discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and Sam's Club locations in the United States. The company also operates in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. The company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol WMT.
 
More information about Wal-Mart can be found by visiting . Online merchandise sales are available at and .
www.walmartstores.com
www.walmart.com
www.samsclub.com
This release contains statements as to our management's expectations regarding the momentum of the company's performance continuing and as to our company remaining well positioned to serve its customers in the challenging economic environment, management's expectations for the company's reported EPS for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 and for all of fiscal year 2010 and certain factors underlying those expectations, management's expectations for the impact of currency exchange rates on the company's earnings for the first three quarters of fiscal year 2010, and management's guidance as to the company's comparable store sales increase in the United States for the thirteen-week period ending May 1, 2009, that Wal-Mart believes are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. These statements can be identified by the use of the word or phrase "well positioned," "expect," "expects" or "would have" in the statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, domestically and internationally, including general economic conditions, the cost of goods, competitive pressures, geopolitical events and conditions, levels of unemployment, levels of consumer disposable income, changes in laws and regulations, consumer credit availability, inflation, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, currency exchange fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, changes in the costs of gasoline, diesel fuel, other energy, transportation, utilities, labor and health care, accident costs, casualty and other insurance costs, interest rate fluctuations, financial and capital market conditions, developments in litigation to which the company is a party, weather conditions, damage to the company's facilities from natural disasters, regulatory matters and other risks. The company discusses certain of these factors more fully in its additional filings with the SEC, including its last annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, and this release should be read in conjunction with that annual report on Form 10-K, together with all of the company's other filings, including current reports on Form 8-K, made with the SEC through the date of this release. The company urges you to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this release. As a result of these matters, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, the company's actual results may differ materially from the expected results discussed in the forward-looking statements contained in this release. The forward-looking statements made in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and the company undertakes no obligation to update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
 
 
 
The following information provides reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures presented in the press release, to which this reconciliation is attached, to the most nearly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The company has provided the non-GAAP financial information presented in the press release, which is not calculated or presented in accordance with GAAP, as information supplemental and in addition to the financial measures presented in the press release that are calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Such non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with, the GAAP financial measures presented in the press release. The non-GAAP financial measures in the press release may differ from similar measures used by other companies.
Underlying Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations
As used in the press release referred to above, the company defines its underlying earnings per share from continuing operations (underlying EPS) for the periods presented as its reported diluted income per common share from continuing operations for those periods calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles adjusted to exclude the effect of the charges from its settlement of 63 U.S. class action wage and hour lawsuits that it accrued in the three months ended January 31, 2009. Such underlying diluted earnings per share from continuing operations are considered a non-GAAP financial measure under the SEC's rules. The company considers its reported diluted income per common share from continuing operations to be the most nearly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Underlying EPS provides information supplemental and in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the information relating to the company's diluted income per common share from continuing operations included in the press release.
This non-GAAP financial measure provides investors with an understanding of our diluted income per common share from continuing operations adjusted to exclude the effect of the charges described above and assists investors in making a ready comparison of the company's diluted income per common share from continuing operations for its fiscal year ended January 31, 2009 and the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2009 as so adjusted against those recent, published securities analysts' estimates of the company's diluted earnings ( income) per share from continuing operations for those periods that did not include the effect of such charges and against published average or consensus estimates of the company's diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for those periods that are based, at least in part, on such analysts' estimates.
i.e.,
The following table reconciles diluted income per common share from continuing operations for the periods presented, a GAAP financial measure, to underlying EPS, a non-GAAP financial measure.
 
Free Cash Flow
The company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in the period for which free cash flow is presented minus payments for property and equipment made in that period. Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under the SEC's rules Management of the company believes that free cash flow is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the company's financial performance, as it measures the company's ability to generate additional cash from its business operations. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a
.
 
substitute for, net income as a measure of the company's performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of its liquidity.
The company's definition of free cash flow is limited, in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations. Therefore, the company believes it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to the company's entire statement of cash flows.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities, a GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure.
 
Comparable Store Sales Excluding Fuel Sales
The company presents its comparable store sales in the United States for the periods presented calculated by excluding the fuel sales by its Sam's Club segment for those periods to provide investors with useful information as to the effect of fuel sales on the company's comparable store sales for those periods. Comparable store sales excluding fuel sales provide information supplemental and in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the information relating to the company's comparable store sales including fuel sales included in the press release. A reconciliation of comparable store sales including fuel sales for the periods presented, which are calculated using GAAP amounts, to comparable stores sales excluding fuel sales, a non-GAAP financial measure, is contained in the text of the press release.
 


