FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20090514073050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the "Company") periodically communicates with its shareholders and other members of the investment community (collectively referred to as the "Investment Community") about our operations (the "Periodic Communications"). We do so through press releases, telecommunications and webcasts.
This Current Report on Form 8-K provides information regarding our current policy regarding Periodic Communications, which is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We will no longer report sales on a monthly basis, report comparable stores sales for each four-week or five-week period in our retail calendar, or provide any regular update of forecasts as to estimated earnings per share or comparable store sales for any period.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company reserves the right to change the foregoing policy regarding the release of sales and earnings information from time to time as management deems appropriate in order to keep the Investment Community properly informed about our operations.
We also make other Periodic Communications including:
 
 
 
We are aware of the obligations we have pursuant to Regulation FD of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). To ensure compliance with Regulation FD, we have adopted the following measures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Some or all of the information provided in our press releases, Periodic Communications, Additional Communications, Annual Shareholders' Meeting and meetings with analysts may not be material information concerning the Company or its operations. The fact that we disclose information through or in any communication does not, in and of itself, mean that we have determined that the information provided is material to the Company or its operations. No shareholder, securities analyst, potential investor in our stock or other securities or other member of the Investment Community should assume that our disclosure of information in any communication means that we have determined that the information is material to the Company, its operations, its financial condition or its results of operations.
Any of the press releases, telephone calls, webcasts, meetings or other sources of information we described or mentioned above may include statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by use of words such as "believe," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "forecast," "foresee," "will be," "will continue," "will remain," or other similar words or phrases. Forward-looking statements may address activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including such things as future earnings, future earnings per share, comparable stores sales, future capital expenditures (including the amount and nature of those expenditures), expansion and other development trends of industry segments in which we and our subsidiaries are active, future revenues and cash flows, future performance, our business
Forward-Looking Statements Or Information.
 
strategy, our financing strategy, expansion and growth of our business, our operations and other similar matters and our management's anticipation and expectations as to future occurrences and trends. Statements of that kind are forward-looking statements. Although we will base the expectations expressed in forward-looking statements on assumptions that we will think are reasonable within the bounds of our knowledge of our business, a number of risks, uncertainties and factors, domestically and internationally, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements, whether oral or written, that we make or that are made on our behalf. We have previously identified many of these factors in filings or statements we have made by or that have been made on our behalf. Our business and operations are subject to risks, uncertainties and factors outside our control. Any one, or a combination, of these risks, uncertainties and factors could materially affect the results of our operations. These risks, uncertainties and factors include: general economic conditions, unemployment levels, consumer credit availability, levels of consumer disposable income, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, inflation, the cost of the goods we sell, labor costs, transportation costs, the cost of diesel fuel, gasoline, natural gas and electricity, the cost of healthcare benefits, accident costs, our casualty and other insurance costs, information security costs, the cost of construction materials, availability of acceptable building sites for new stores, clubs and other formats, competitive pressures, accident-related costs, weather patterns, catastrophic events, storm and other damage to our stores and distribution centers, weather-related closing of stores, availability and transport of goods from domestic and foreign suppliers, currency exchange fluctuations and volatility, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, adoption of or changes in tax and other laws and regulations that affect our business, costs of compliance with laws and regulations, the outcome of legal proceedings to which we are a party, interest rate fluctuations, changes in employment legislation and other capital market, economic and geo-political conditions and events, including civil unrest and terrorist attacks. Forward-looking statements that we make or that are made on our behalf are based on knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate, but because of the risks, uncertainties and factors listed above and other similar factors, actual results may differ from the results stated in the forward-looking statements. Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements made are qualified by these and other cautionary statements, and we cannot assure you that the results or developments that we anticipate will be realized or, even if substantially realized, will have the expected consequences to or effects on us or our business or operations. We caution you not to put undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 14, 2009
 


