FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20100929161235.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On September 23, 2010, Thomas M. Schoewe, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the "Company") notified the Company that he will retire from his position as executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective on the close of business on November 30, 2010. On December 1, 2010, Mr. Schoewe will continue in his capacity as an executive vice president and be employed as an associate of the Company through January 31, 2011.
(c) On September 24, 2010, the Board of Directors appointed Charles M. Holley, age 54, as executive president and chief financial officer of the Company, effective as of the close of business on November 30, 2010. Since January 2007, Mr. Holley has served as the Company's executive vice president-finance and treasurer. From 2005 to 2007, Mr. Holley served as a senior vice president of finance with responsibility for the Company's accounting, tax, financial reporting and investor relations areas, as well as financial support responsibility for the Company's real estate, benefits, risk management and information systems areas. From 2003 to 2005, Mr. Holley served as the Company's senior vice president and controller. From 1999 to 2003, Mr. Holley was a senior vice president and chief financial officer of Walmart International, which included, in addition to other duties, the responsibility for the Company's international acquisitions.
The Company issued a press release on September 29, 2010, announcing the appointment of Mr. Holley in his new role. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The Company entered into a post-termination agreement and covenant not to compete with Mr. Holley on March 14, 2010 (the "Noncompete Agreement"). The Noncompete Agreement is substantially similar to the form of post-termination agreement and covenant not to compete that is attached as Exhibit 10(p) to the Company's Form 10-K filed on March 30, 2010. The Noncompete Agreement prohibits Mr. Holley, for a period of two years following termination of employment with the Company for any reason, from participating in a business that competes with the Company and from soliciting the Company's associates for employment. The Noncompete Agreement also provides that, if Mr. Holley's employment is terminated by the Company for any reason, other than for a violation of the Company's policies, then the Company will continue to pay Mr. Holley's base salary for two years following termination of employment. As consideration for executing the Noncompete Agreement, Mr. Holley received a grant of 17,886 shares of restricted stock.
(e) On September 28, 2010, the Company entered into a retirement agreement with Mr. Schoewe, which provides that Mr. Schoewe's employment will continue through January 31, 2011 (the "Agreement"). The Agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Mr. Schoewe will receive his salary through January 31, 2011 and he will be eligible to participate in the Company's Management Incentive Plan and his unvested stock options, restricted stock and performance shares will continue to vest in the normal course through January 31, 2011, with several exceptions. Mr. Schoewe will forfeit 100 percent of the 69,804 target performance shares he received on January 23, 2009, and 100 percent of the 62,465 target performance shares he received on January 21, 2010. The Company will accelerate certain restricted stock grants and stock option grants that are scheduled to vest in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 as reflected in the Agreement. The Agreement, which also operates as an amendment to Mr. Schoewe's covenant not to compete agreement, extends the non-competition and non-solicitation provisions through January 31, 2014.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 29, 2010
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Retirement Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and entered into as of September 28, 2010 by and between Thomas M. Schoewe ("Mr. Schoewe" ) and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its affiliates and subsidiaries (collectively, "Walmart").
on September 23, 2010, Mr. Schoewe formally notified the Company of his intent to retire as Executive Vice President of the Company effective on the close of business on January 31, 2011 (the "Retirement Date"); and
WHEREAS,
, the Company desires to continue to employ Mr. Schoewe through January 31, 2011, as described herein, and Mr. Schoewe wishes to continue such employment on the terms, provisions and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
WHEREAS
, for good and sufficient consideration, the sufficiency of which the parties acknowledge, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 
 
The Noncompetition Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010. The Amendment is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated December 12, 2005.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) today announced that its board of directors has elected Charles Holley, 54, to succeed Tom Schoewe as the company's chief financial officer. The change will be effective Nov. 30, and Schoewe will stay on until Jan. 31 to help with the transition.
BENTONVILLE, Ark., Sept. 29, 2010 
"Charles has great experience both inside Walmart and externally," said CEO Mike Duke. "He is a talented strategist who also thoroughly understands the details of our business and the financial markets. As treasurer, he has helped drive the strategy behind the company's strong financial position and has made every organization he has led stronger.
"Charles has also played a strong role in pioneering the company's international expansion. He is respected within the company as well as by the investment community, and has been a key part of our strategic discussions for a number of years."
Duke said, "Tom has been a key member of Walmart's strategic team for the past decade and has overseen our financial functions during a period of tremendous growth and international expansion. During that time he played a leading role in strengthening our balance sheet and our financial controls, and in establishing the financial priorities of growth, leverage and returns that guide our business.
"One of Tom's greatest strengths is his focus on talent development, and he has built a strong and deep team across all our operations," Duke continued. "Under his leadership, the company has continued to increase its returns to shareholders, and through the first half of this fiscal year gave back $9.4 billion through dividends and share repurchase."
Holley joined Walmart in 1994 and is currently executive vice president - finance and treasurer. He is responsible for corporate strategy and planning, tax, investor relations, corporate mergers and acquisitions, risk management, and treasury operations, which includes capital markets and cash management. Before joining Walmart, Holley worked for Tandy Corporation (now Radio Shack) as managing director for its European Memorex division and served as director of finance for its international operations. He also spent more than 10 years with Ernst & Young.
Schoewe, 57, joined Walmart in 2000. Prior to that, he spent 14 years at Black and Decker, most recently as chief financial officer.
Both Holley and Schoewe are recognized leaders within the financial and retail industries and are active in community service.
Holley's successor will be named at a later date.
NOTE: Bios of Charles Holley and Tom Schoewe are available at:
. High resolution photos of both are available for downloading from the site.
http://www.walmartstores.com
About Walmart
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., (NYSE: WMT) serves customers and members more than 200 million times per week at more than 8,400 retail units under 55 different banners in 15 countries. With fiscal year 2010 sales of $405 billion, Walmart employs more than two million associates worldwide. A leader in sustainability, corporate philanthropy and employment opportunity, Walmart ranked first among retailers in magazine's 2010 Most Admired Companies survey. Additional information about Walmart can be found by visiting . Online merchandise sales are available at and .
Fortune
www.walmartstores.com
www.walmart.com
www.samsclub.com


