FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20100426154734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the "Company") is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K in order to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a press release that the Company issued on April 26, 2010 (the "Press Release"). A copy of the Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 26, 2010
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
"We are pleased that the court agreed with our position on several critical issues. The court significantly reduced the size of the originally certified class by as much as two-thirds. Finding that the trial court abused its discretion,' the appeals court also set aside the ruling on punitive damages.
"We disagree with the decision of the sharply divided 6-5 court to uphold portions of the certification order, and are considering our options, including seeking review from the Supreme Court.
"It is important to remember the court did not address the merits of this case. The court reiterated, our findings relate only to class action procedural questions; we neither analyze nor reach the merits of Plaintiffs' allegations of gender discrimination.' The court further noted that the trial court has the discretion to modify or decertify the class.'
"We do not believe the claims alleged by the six individuals who brought this suit are representative of the experiences of our female associates. Walmart is an excellent place for women to work and fosters female leadership among our associates and in the larger business world.
"We are proud of the strides we have made to advance and support our female associates and have been recognized for our efforts to advance women through a number of awards and accolades. In 2008, Walmart was named in the "Top 40 Greatest Organizations for Women of Color to Work" by magazine as well as one of the "Top 10 Best Companies for Women" by magazine."
Women of Color
PINK


