FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20100609170834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the "Company") was held on June 4, 2010 in Fayetteville, Arkansas. At that meeting, the Company's shareholders voted on the matters set forth below.
Election of Directors
The Company's shareholders elected for one-year terms all persons nominated for election as directors as set forth in the Company's proxy statement dated April 19, 2010. The following table sets forth the vote of the shareholders at the meeting with respect to the election of directors:
 
Company Proposals
The Company's shareholders voted upon and approved the ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP to serve as the Company's independent registered accounting firm for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2011. The votes on this proposal were as follows:
Ratification of Independent Accountants.
 
There were no broker non-votes with respect to this proposal.
The Company's shareholders voted upon and approved the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010. The votes on this proposal were as follows:
Stock Incentive Plan of 2010.
 
The Company's shareholders voted upon and approved amendments to the ASDA Limited Sharesave Plan 2000. The votes on this proposal were as follows:
ASDA Limited Sharesave Plan 2000.
 
 
Shareholder Proposals
The Company's shareholders voted upon and rejected a shareholder proposal regarding an amendment to the Company's equal employment opportunity policy to explicitly prohibit discrimination based on gender identity and to implement that amended non-discrimination policy. The votes on the proposal were as follows:
 
The Company's shareholders voted upon and rejected a shareholder proposal regarding a policy requiring an advisory shareholder vote on executive compensation at each annual shareholders' meeting. The votes on the proposal were as follows:
 
The Company's shareholders voted upon and rejected a shareholder proposal regarding preparing a report on the Company's political contributions. The votes on the proposal were as follows:
 
The Company's shareholders voted upon and rejected a shareholder proposal regarding shareholders being permitted to call special shareholders' meetings. The votes on the proposal were as follows:
 
The Company's shareholders voted upon and rejected a shareholder proposal regarding controlled-atmosphere killing of poultry by the Company's suppliers. The votes on the proposal were as follows:
 
The Company's shareholders voted upon and rejected a shareholder proposal regarding preparing a report on the Company's lobbying priorities. The votes on the proposal were as follows:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: June 9, 2010
 
 


