FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20110222070141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. is furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K in order to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission a press release (the "Press Release") that we will issue on February 22, 2011. The Press Release will disclose information regarding our results of operations for the three months and the year ended January 31, 2011 and our financial condition as of January 31, 2011.
The Press Release provides information regarding certain financial measures that may be considered non-GAAP financial measures (each, a "Non-GAAP Measure") under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Among those Non-GAAP Measures are:
 
 
 
 
The Press Release provides information that reconciles each of these Non-GAAP Measures to the most directly comparable GAAP Measures.
Our management believes that presentation of the Non-GAAP Measures discussed above provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations as to the periods for which they are presented for the following reasons:
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1A copy of the Press Release being furnished pursuant to the foregoing Item 2.02 is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 22, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) today reported financial results for the quarter and the year ended Jan. 31, 2011. Net sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 were $115.6 billion, an increase of 2.5 percent from $112.8 billion in the fourth quarter last year.
BENTONVILLE, Ark., Feb. 22, 2011
Net sales included a currency exchange rate benefit of $664 million. Income from continuing operations attributable to Walmart for the quarter was $5.0 billion, up from $4.8 billion in the fourth quarter last year.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart ("reported EPS") for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 were $1.41. The underlying diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart ("underlying EPS") were $1.34
3
, exceeding consensus estimates and company guidance. Underlying EPS for the fourth quarter represents reported EPS that is adjusted to exclude the effects of certain tax benefits of $243 million, or approximately $0.07 per share. The tax benefits are due primarily to the repatriation of certain non-U.S. earnings that increased U.S. foreign tax credits.
By comparison, underlying EPS for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was $1.21
3
. The amount reflects an adjustment to reported EPS to exclude several restructuring charges totaling $260 million ($162 million net of tax), or approximately $0.04 per share, and a net tax benefit of $372 million or approximately $0.09 per share.
For the fourth quarter, the company recognized in discontinued operations, an approximate $1.0 billion tax benefit in connection with the disposition of its German operations in fiscal 2007. This matter was resolved with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service during the fourth quarter of this fiscal year. Diluted earnings per share attributable to Walmart, inclusive of continuing operations and discontinued operations of $0.29 per share from the recognized tax benefit, were $1.70 for the fourth quarter.
Fiscal 2011 results
Net sales for the fiscal year were $419 billion, an increase of 3.4 percent over fiscal 2010. Net sales included a currency exchange rate benefit of $4.5 billion. Income from continuing operations attributable to Walmart were $15.4 billion, a 6.3 percent increase from $14.4 billion last year.
For fiscal year 2011, reported EPS and underlying EPS were $4.18 and $4.07
3
, respectively, versus $3.73 per share and $3.67
3
per share, respectively, in the prior year. Fiscal 2011 reported EPS reflects certain tax benefits recorded in the third and fourth quarters that aggregate to approximately $0.11 per share. Diluted earnings per share attributable to Walmart for fiscal 2011, inclusive of continuing operations and discontinued operations from the recognized tax benefit, were $4.47.
Pleased with earnings performance
"We are pleased with Walmart's strong earnings performance for both the fourth quarter and the full year across our three operating segments. At the same time, we are disappointed by Walmart U.S. fourth quarter sales," said Mike Duke, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. president and chief executive officer.
Duke pointed out that under the leadership of President and CEO Bill Simon, Walmart U.S. is implementing a four-point plan designed to deliver better results. He acknowledged that it will take some time to see positive comparable store sales.
"Some of the pricing and merchandising issues in Walmart ran deeper than we initially expected, and they require a response that will take time to see results," Duke explained. "There is no greater priority for Bill or me than getting sales back into positive territory."
 
 
The Walmart U.S. four-point plan is designed to improve performance in existing stores. The points are:
 
"We are confident that through these initiatives, as well as the commitment of our 1.4 million associates, we can improve sales throughout the rest of the year," Simon said. "And, we will make meaningful progress on new store growth, as we add supercenters and expand our store format portfolio."
Duke also recognized the strong full year operating results of Walmart International and Sam's Club.
"Walmart International continues to be our growth engine, and we expect accelerated growth in emerging markets. International net sales exceeded $109 billion this year, an increase of more than 12 percent over the prior year. Every country contributed a sales increase in fiscal 2011, compared to the prior year," Duke said. "Sam's Club reached almost $50 billion in annual net sales. And, during the year, Sam's Club comp sales, excluding fuel, improved sequentially every quarter, with the fourth quarter being the strongest."
The company leveraged operating expenses for the fourth quarter and the full year, as well as maintained a strong financial position. Walmart ended the year with strong free cash flow of $10.9 billion, compared to $14.1 billion the previous year. ROI for the full year ended Jan. 31, 2011 was 19.2 percent, compared to 19.3 percent for the prior year.
"Walmart's commitment to growth, leverage and returns continues to improve value for our shareholders," added Duke. "Between dividends and share repurchases, Walmart returned a record $19.2 billion to our shareholders during the fiscal year."
Walmart repurchased $3.8 billion in shares during the fourth quarter, raising this year's total to $14.8 billion. The company has approximately $4.8 billion remaining under the current share repurchase authorization.
Guidance
"Based on our views of the global economy and our three operating segments, we expect first quarter diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart to be between $0.91 and $0.96, versus last year's EPS of $0.87," said Charles Holley, executive vice president and chief financial officer. "Further, we are guiding earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart for fiscal 2012 to a range of $4.35 to $4.50. These estimates assume that currency exchange rates remain at current levels."
Underlying EPS was $4.07
4
for fiscal year 2011, excluding approximately $0.11 per share of aggregate tax benefits recorded in the third and fourth quarters.
The company also updated the range for capital expenditures for fiscal 2012. Walmart projected on Oct. 13, 2010 that total company capital spending would range from $13.5 billion to $14.5 billion.
 
 
"We closed fiscal 2011 having spent $12.7 billion, below the low-end of our forecast of $13.0 to $14.0 billion," Holley said. "We now expect capital expenditures for this new fiscal year to be between $12.5 and $13.5 billion. This lowers our guidance by $1.0 billion from our October forecast, and represents improved efficiency particularly in the Walmart U.S. segment, and thoughtful capital allocation to ensure our growth around the world.
"Walmart is continuing the processes to finalize the acquisitions of Massmart Holdings Limited in South Africa and the Netto stores in the U.K.," Holley explained. "Capital for these or future acquisitions are not included in this capital guidance.
"We closed the year with 985 million square feet of selling space. We continue to expect organic square footage growth between three and four percent in fiscal 2012," Holley said. "We also continue to expect net sales for fiscal 2012 to grow between four and six percent."
Operating Segment Details
Data in the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this news release are based on the fiscal years and quarters ended Jan. 31, 2011 and 2010. As part of an operational realignment at the start of fiscal 2011, the Walmart units and Sam's Clubs in Puerto Rico moved from the Walmart International segment to the respective Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments. Walmart International consists of the company's operations outside the United States and Puerto Rico.
Net sales results
Net sales were as follows (dollars in billions):
 
Walmart International net sales included a $664 million and a $4.5 billion currency exchange rate benefit for the quarter and fiscal year ended Jan. 31, 2011, respectively. On a constant currency basis, Walmart International net sales were up 6.6 percent and 7.6 percent for the fourth quarter and fiscal year, respectively. The highest increases in net sales came from Brazil, Mexico, and China.
Net sales for Sam's Club, excluding fuel, increased to $11.9 billion, an increase of 2.5 percent from last year's fourth quarter results. On the full year, net sales, excluding fuel, grew by 1.4 percent.
Consolidated net sales on a constant currency basis increased by 1.9 percent for the quarter and 2.3 percent for the year.
 
Segment operating income
Segment operating income was as follows (dollars in billions):
 
Walmart U.S. operating income for both the quarter and the full year was up, due to continued expense leverage. Walmart U.S. has now leveraged operating expenses for five consecutive quarters.
Walmart International reported operating income that included a currency exchange rate benefit of $58 million and $231 million for the fourth quarter and the full year, respectively. On a constant currency basis, operating income grew 4.0 percent for the fourth quarter and 9.7 percent for the fiscal year. Walmart International's operating expenses grew at approximately the same rate as sales in the fourth quarter.
Sam's Club operating income for the fourth quarter increased 57.1 percent, primarily due to a $174 million restructuring charge recorded in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. Excluding fuel, and the impact of last year's restructuring charge, operating income for the fourth quarter was flat, compared to last year. For the fiscal year, operating income grew 1.3 percent versus last year, without the impact of last year's restructuring charge.
Consolidated operating income for the fourth quarter, which includes unallocated corporate overhead, was $8.0 billion, up 7.3 percent. On a constant currency basis, consolidated operating income grew 6.5 percent to $7.9 billion. For the year, consolidated operating income was $25.5 billion, which is up 6.4 percent from last year. On a constant currency basis, consolidated operating income grew 5.5 percent to $25.3 billion.
U.S. comparable store sales
The company reports U.S. comparable store sales based on its 13-week and 52-week retail calendar periods ended Jan. 28, 2011 and Jan. 29, 2010, as follows:
 
 
 
During the 13-week period ended Jan. 28, 2011, the majority of the Walmart U.S. comparable store decline was attributed to traffic, while average ticket was up slightly versus the prior year. For the 52-week period, traffic was down and ticket increased slightly in Walmart U.S. versus the prior year. Food and health and wellness categories had positive comps for the fourth quarter.
For the 4-5-4 period running from Jan. 29 through Apr. 29, 2011, Walmart U.S. expects comparable store sales to range from minus two percent to flat. The Walmart U.S. 13-week comp for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 declined 1.4 percent.
For Sam's Club, comparable ticket, excluding fuel, increased for both Business and Advantage members for the 13-week period. Comparable traffic, excluding fuel, for the 13-week period, increased for Advantage members and declined for Business members.
Sam's Club expects comp sales, without fuel, for the current 13-week period from Jan. 29 through Apr. 29, 2011, to increase between one and three percent. Last year, Sam's Club comp, without fuel, for the first quarter comparable 13-week period rose 0.7 percent.
Both Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club will report comparable sales for the 13-week period on May 17, 2011, when the company reports first quarter results.
Notes
Constant Currency Results
Constant currency results are calculated by translating current year results using prior year exchange rates.
Segment Reclassifications
Effective Feb. 1, 2010, the company made certain changes to its internal management reporting that impacted only our segment reporting. Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation. These changes include allocating to the segments certain information systems expenses previously included in unallocated corporate overhead and, in connection with an operational alignment, moving the Puerto Rico operations from the Walmart International segment to both the respective Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club segments. The Walmart U.S. segment now includes the company's mass merchant concept in the United States and Puerto Rico operating primarily under the "Walmart" or "Wal-Mart" brand, as well as walmart.com. Walmart International now consists of the company's operations outside the United States and Puerto Rico. The Sam's Club segment now includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as samsclub.com.
Accounting Change
Effective May 1, 2010, the company implemented a new financial system for its operations in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Concurrent with this implementation and the increased system capabilities, the company changed the level at which it applies the retail method of accounting for inventory in these operations from 13 divisions to 49 departments. The company believes the change is preferable, because applying the retail method of accounting for inventory at the departmental level better segregates merchandise with similar cost-to-retail ratios and turnover, as well as providing a more accurate cost of goods sold and ending inventory value at the lower of cost or market for each reporting period. The retrospective application of this accounting change impacted both segment and consolidated operating income, as well as consolidated net income for all comparable periods presented.
 
After this earnings release has been furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), a pre-recorded call offering additional comments on the quarter will be available to all investors. Callers may listen to this call by dialing 800-778-6902, or 585-219-6420 outside the U.S. and Canada. Information included in this release, including reconciliations, and the pre-recorded phone call are available in the investor information area on the company's website at www.walmartstores.com/investors.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) serves customers and members more than 200 million times per week at 8,970 retail units under 60 different banners in 15 countries. With fiscal year 2011 sales of $419 billion, Walmart employs more than 2 million associates worldwide. A leader in sustainability, corporate philanthropy and employment opportunity, Walmart ranked first among retailers in Fortune Magazine's 2010 Most Admired Companies survey. Additional information about Walmart can be found by visiting www.walmartstores.com. Online merchandise sales are available at www.walmart.com and www.samsclub.com.
 
Forward Looking Statements
This release contains statements as to Walmart management's forecast of the company's earnings per share for the fiscal quarter to end Apr. 30, 2011 and for the year to end Jan. 31, 2012 (and statements of assumptions underlying those forecasts), management's expectations regarding the comparable store sales of the Walmart U.S. segment and comparable club sales, excluding fuel, of the Sam's Club segment of the company for the 13-week period from Jan. 29, 2011 through Apr. 29, 2011, management's expectation regarding capital expenditures (excluding acquisitions) in fiscal year 2012 and assumptions underlying that expectation, management's expectation regarding organic square footage growth in fiscal year 2012, management's expectation regarding net sales growth in fiscal year 2012, management's plan regarding delivering better results at the Walmart U.S. segment and the four points of that plan, which were EDLP price leadership where the Walmart U.S. segment will deliver consistent every day low price on a basket of goods, broadest assortment possible, improvement of store remodeling efficiency and returns to right size square footage for various merchandise departments and categories, and customer access through multi-channel shopping options, management's expectations that it will take some time to see positive comparable store sales at the Walmart U.S. segment, that the Walmart U.S. segment will make meaningful progress on new store growth in fiscal year 2012 as it adds supercenters and expands its store format portfolio, and management's expectations regarding the Walmart International segment having accelerated growth in emerging markets that the company believes are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that act. Those statements can be identified by the use of the word or phrase "expect," "expects," "guidance," "guiding," "plan," "will deliver," "will make," "will provide" and "will take" in the statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, domestically and internationally, including general economic conditions, the cost of goods, competitive pressures, geopolitical events and conditions, levels of unemployment, levels of consumer disposable income, changes in laws and regulations, consumer credit availability, inflation, deflation, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, consumer acceptance of new formats, currency exchange rate fluctuations, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, changes in the costs of gasoline, diesel fuel, other energy, transportation, utilities, labor and health care, accident costs, casualty and other insurance costs, interest rate fluctuations, availability of acceptable sites for the development of new units, regulatory and other legal restrictions that may affect development of new units, financial and capital market conditions, developments in litigation to which the company is a party, weather conditions, damage to the company's facilities from natural disasters, regulatory matters and other risks. The company discusses certain of these factors more fully in certain of its filings with the SEC, including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC, and this release should be read in conjunction with that annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, together with all of the company's other filings, including its current reports on Form 8-K, made with the SEC through the date of this release. The company urges you to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this release. As a result of these matters, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, the company's actual results may differ materially from the expected results discussed in the forward-looking statements contained in this release. The forward-looking statements made in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and the company undertakes no obligation to update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
 
The following information provides reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures presented in the press release to which this reconciliation is attached to the most nearly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The company has provided the non-GAAP financial information presented in the press release, which is not calculated or presented in accordance with GAAP, as information supplemental and in addition to the financial measures presented in the press release that are calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Such non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with, the GAAP financial measures presented in the press release. The non-GAAP financial measures in the press release may differ from similar measures used by other companies.
Underlying Income from Continuing Operations Attributable to Walmart and Underlying Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations Attributable to Walmart
As used in the press release referred to above, the company defines its underlying earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart (underlying EPS) for the periods presented as its reported diluted income per common share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart for those periods calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles after adjusting for items noted in the table below.
Such underlying income from continuing operations attributable to Walmart and underlying earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart are considered non-GAAP financial measures under the SEC's rules. The company considers its reported income from continuing operations attributable to Walmart and diluted income per common share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart to be the most nearly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Underlying income from continuing operations attributable to Walmart and underlying EPS attributable to Walmart provides information supplemental and in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the information relating to the company's diluted income per common share from continuing operations included in the press release.
These non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with an understanding of our income from continuing operations attributable to Walmart and diluted income per common share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart reflected to exclude the effect of certain tax benefits and restructuring charges listed below and assist investors in making a ready comparison to the company's underlying income from continuing operations attributable to Walmart and underlying EPS attributable to Walmart for the quarters and fiscal years ended Jan. 31, 2011 and 2010 as so adjusted against those recent, published securities analysts' estimates of the company's diluted earnings ( income) per share from continuing operations for those periods that did not include the effect of such tax benefits and restructuring charges and against published average or consensus estimates of the company's diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for those periods that are based, at least in part, on such analysts' estimates.
i.e.,
The following table reconciles income from continuing operations attributable to Walmart and diluted income per common share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart for the periods presented, GAAP financial measures, to underlying income from continuing operations attributable to Walmart, and underlying EPS attributable to Walmart, non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 
Free Cash Flow
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period. We generated free cash flow of $10.9 billion and $14.1 billion for the fiscal years ended Jan. 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our free cash flow during the current period was principally impacted by our increased investment in inventory, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable.
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under the SEC's rules. Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the company's financial performance. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, income from continuing operations as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity.
Additionally, our definition of free cash flow is limited, in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our entire statements of cash flows.
Although other companies report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company's free cash flow. As a result, the method used by our management to calculate free cash flow may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate their free cash flow. We urge you to understand the methods used by another company to calculate its free cash flow before comparing our free cash flow to that of such other company.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, for the fiscal years ended Jan. 31, 2011 and 2010, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities in those periods.
 
 
Calculation of Return on Investment and Return on Assets
Management believes return on investment ("ROI") is a meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is employing its assets. Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time as management balances long-term potential strategic initiatives with any possible short-term impacts.
ROI was 19.2 percent and 19.3 percent for the fiscal years ended Jan. 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
We define ROI as adjusted operating income (operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization and rent expense) for the fiscal year or trailing twelve months divided by average invested capital during that period. We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets of continuing operations plus accumulated depreciation and amortization less accounts payable and accrued liabilities for that period, plus a rent factor equal to the rent for the fiscal year or trailing twelve months multiplied by a factor of eight.
ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under the SEC's rules. We consider return on assets ("ROA") to be the financial measure computed in accordance with GAAP that is the most directly comparable financial measure to ROI as we calculate that financial measure. ROI differs from ROA (which is income from continuing operations for the fiscal year or trailing twelve months divided by average total assets of continuing operations for the period) because ROI: adjusts operating income to exclude certain expense items and adds interest income; adjusts total assets from continuing operations for the impact of accumulated depreciation and amortization, accounts payable and accrued liabilities; and incorporates a factor of rent to arrive at total invested capital.
Although ROI is a standard financial metric, numerous methods exist for calculating a company's ROI. As a result, the method used by Walmart's management to calculate ROI may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate their ROI. We urge you to understand the methods used by another company to calculate its ROI before comparing our ROI to that of such other company.
 
The calculation of ROI along with reconciliation to the calculation of ROA, the most comparable GAAP financial measurement, is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 


