FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20110927131536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On September 23, 2011, Eduardo Castro-Wright, Vice Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Global eCommerce and Global Sourcing of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the "Company"), notified the Company that he will retire from the Company, effective on the close of business on July 1, 2012 and will remain employed as an associate through such date. The Company anticipates naming new leaders for its Global eCommerce and Global Sourcing businesses on or before the end of its current fiscal year, which is January 31, 2012.
(e) On September 23, 2011, the Company entered into a retirement agreement with Mr. Castro-Wright, which provides that Mr. Castro-Wright's employment will continue through July 1, 2012 (the "Agreement"). The Agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Mr. Castro-Wright will receive his current annual salary through January 31, 2012, and he will receive a reduced annual salary from February 1, 2012 through July 1, 2012. He will be eligible to participate in the Company's Management Incentive Plan and Performance Share Plan through January 31, 2012, and his unvested equity consisting of stock options, restricted stock rights and restricted stock will continue to vest in the normal course through July 1, 2012. Mr. Castro-Wright will not receive any new equity awards and will forfeit all unvested equity outstanding as of his retirement on July 1, 2012, with the exception of 42,035 shares of restricted stock originally scheduled to vest on January 31, 2013, which vesting will be accelerated to the date of Mr. Castro-Wright's retirement on July 1, 2012. The Agreement includes non-competition and non-solicitation provisions that are effective through July 1, 2014. Mr. Castro-Wright will receive certain payments under the Agreement totaling approximately $2.1 million in several installments through July 1, 2014.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 27, 2011
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Retirement Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and entered into on September 23, 2011, by and between Mr. Eduardo Castro-Wright (Mr. "Castro-Wright") and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its affiliates and subsidiaries (collectively "Walmart").
on September 23, 2011, Mr. Castro-Wright formally notified the Company of his intent to retire as Vice Chairman of the Company effective on the close of business on July 1, 2012 (the "Retirement Date"); and
WHEREAS,
the Company desires to continue to employ Mr. Castro-Wright through the Retirement Date, as described herein and Mr. Castro-Wright wishes to continue such employment on the terms, provisions and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
WHEREAS,
for good and sufficient consideration, the sufficiency of which the parties acknowledge, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor."
By signing this document, Mr. Castro-Wright agrees and understands that Mr. Castro-Wright is releasing unknown as well as known claims related to Mr. Castro-Wright's employment in exchange for the compensation set forth above in Section 3(a).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) today announced that Eduardo Castro-Wright, 56, Vice Chairman and CEO of the company's Global eCommerce and Global Sourcing businesses, will retire on July 1, 2012. Walmart's goal is to name new leadership for these businesses by the end of January, after which Castro-Wright will assist in the transition.
BENTONVILLE, Ark., Sept. 27, 2011
"Eduardo has made many contributions at Walmart, beginning in Mexico and continuing until today," said Walmart CEO Mike Duke. "He has been a strong advocate for our customers and in every assignment has brought passion and commitment to the job. He has also built talented teams wherever he has led."
Castro-Wright joined Walmart in 2001 as president and COO of Walmart Mexico and was promoted to president and CEO of that business in 2003. He also served as COO for a short period until being named president and CEO of Walmart U. S. in 2005. He was promoted to Vice Chairman in 2008 and assumed his current responsibilities in August of last year. Since that time, Castro-Wright has overseen global sourcing and the expansion of the company's global eCommerce technology, including its acquisitions into social and mobile commerce.
About Walmart
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) serves customers and members more than 200 million times per week at over 9,700 retail units under 69 different banners in 28 countries. With fiscal year 2011 sales of $419 billion, Walmart employs 2.1 million associates worldwide. Walmart continues to be a leader in sustainability, corporate philanthropy and employment opportunity. Additional information about Walmart can be found by visiting and on Twitter at . Online merchandise sales are available at and .
http://walmartstores.com
http://twitter.com/walmart
http://www.walmart.com
http://www.samsclub.com


