FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20121115070055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
In accordance with Item 2.02 of Form 8-K of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), is furnishing to the SEC a press release that the Company will issue on November 15, 2012 (the "Press Release"). The Press Release will disclose information regarding the Company's results of operations for the three months and nine months ended October 31, 2012 and the Company's financial condition as of October 31, 2012.
The Press Release provides information regarding certain financial measures that may be considered non-GAAP financial measures (each, a "Non-GAAP Measure") under the rules of the SEC. Those Non-GAAP Measures include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Press Release sets forth the reasons why management of the Company believes the Free Cash Flow, ROI and the Constant Currency Measures provide useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company's management believes that the presentation of the Comparable Sales Measures and the Sam's Club Measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations because that information permits investors to understand the effect of the fuel sales of Sam's Club, which are affected by the volatility of fuel prices, on the Company's total U.S. comparable store sales, on Sam's Club's comparable club sales and on Sam's Club's net sales and operating income for the periods presented. The Company's management also believes the Adjusted 2012 Q4 EPS provides useful information to investors because management views that measure as a more meaningful measure than the 2012 Q4 EPS with which to compare management's forecasted EPS for the quarter ending January 31, 2013 (the "Forecast EPS") in light of the fact that the Forecast EPS does not include items similar to the Excluded Items.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
The Audit Committee (the "Audit Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company, which is composed solely of independent directors, is conducting an internal investigation into, among other things, alleged violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other alleged crimes or misconduct in connection with foreign subsidiaries, including Wal-Mart de Mxico, S.A.B. de C.V. ("Walmex"), and whether prior allegations of such
 
violations and/or misconduct were appropriately handled by the Company. The Audit Committee and the Company have engaged outside counsel from a number of law firms and other advisors who are assisting in the on-going investigation of these matters.
The Company is also conducting a voluntary global review of its policies, practices and internal controls for FCPA compliance. The Company is engaged in strengthening its global anti-corruption compliance programs through appropriate remedial anti-corruption measures. In November 2011, the Company voluntarily disclosed that investigative activity to the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") and the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Since the implementation of the global review and the enhanced anti-corruption compliance programs, the Audit Committee and the Company have identified or been made aware of additional allegations regarding potential violations of the FCPA. When such allegations are reported or identified, the Audit Committee and the Company, together with their third party advisors, conduct inquiries and when warranted based on those inquiries, open investigations. Inquiries or investigations regarding allegations of potential FCPA violations have been commenced in a number of foreign markets where we operate, including but not limited to Brazil, China and India.
The Company has been informed by the DOJ and the SEC that it is also the subject of their respective investigations into possible violations of the FCPA. The Company is cooperating with the investigations by the DOJ and the SEC. A number of federal and local government agencies in Mexico have also initiated investigations of these matters. Walmex is cooperating with the Mexican governmental agencies conducting these investigations. Furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation have been filed by several of the Company's shareholders against it, certain of its current directors, certain of its former directors, certain of its current and former officers and certain of Walmex's current and former officers.
The Company could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of the matters noted above. There could be one or more enforcement actions in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the ongoing government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties. The shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against the Company and its current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings. The Company cannot predict at this time the outcome or impact of the government investigations, the shareholder lawsuits, or its own internal investigations and review. In addition, the Company expects to incur costs in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in connection with the government investigations, in defending the shareholder lawsuits, and in conducting the review and investigations. These costs will be expensed as incurred. The Company has incurred expenses of approximately $48 million and $99 million during the three and nine months ended October 31, 2012, respectively, related to these matters. These matters may require the involvement of certain members of the Company's senior management that could impinge on the time they have available to devote to other matters relating to the business. The Company expects that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest, including additional news articles from media publications on these matters, which could impact the perception among certain audiences of the Company's role as a corporate citizen.
The Company's process of assessing and responding to the governmental investigations and the shareholder lawsuits continues and the review, inquiries and investigations are on-going. Although the Company does not presently believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect on its business, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, the Company can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to its business in the future.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1A copy of the Press Release being furnished pursuant to the foregoing Item 2.02 is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 15, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
:
Q3 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) today reported financial results for the quarter ended Oct. 31, 2012. Net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 were $113.2 billion, an increase of 3.4 percent from $109.5 billion in the third quarter last year. Net sales for this quarter included a negative currency exchange rate impact of approximately $1.7 billion. Without the currency impact, net sales would have been $114.9 billion. Membership and other income increased 2.1 percent to $725 million. Total revenue was $113.9 billion, an increase of 3.4 percent from last year.
BENTONVILLE, Ark., Nov. 15, 2012
 
Income from continuing operations attributable to Walmart for the quarter was $3.6 billion, up 8.7 percent from the third quarter last year. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart (EPS) for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 were $1.08. By comparison, last year's reported EPS were $0.97.
The current quarter benefited from a 31.3 percent effective tax rate. This benefit was mostly offset by approximately $105 million in pre-tax charges which are included in operating expenses:
 
 
Solid earnings performance
"We're very pleased with our financial performance for the third quarter and the dedication and hard work of our associates serving Walmart customers and communities around the world," said Mike Duke, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. president and chief executive officer. "Earnings per share were $1.08, which represents an 11.3 percent increase over the third quarter last year."
The company leveraged operating expenses for the third quarter, delivering on its commitment to reduce costs, improve productivity and invest in price.
"Our disciplined approach to operating the business and to the productivity loop drove profitability and expense leverage," said Duke. "Our fundamentals are strong, and we are well-positioned for the fourth quarter, including innovative plans to drive traffic, especially in our U.S. stores.
"Price will continue to be a major factor for U.S. customers over the holidays. Our strong price position and broad assortment are clear competitive advantages," he explained. "Across all of our markets, we are seeing the same price consciousness as we do in the United States. More customers are part of a growing global middle class, looking for quality, value and a better life, and our EDLP model matters to these customers."
Duke also noted that the company continues to invest in e-commerce to build the anywhere, anytime relationship that customers want.
"We made significant progress this quarter in enhancing our walmart.com site for U.S. customers, and we are expanding e-commerce opportunities for shoppers in our key markets, including China, the U.K. and Brazil," said Duke. "We also increased our position in China e-commerce retailer Yihaodian to 51 percent."
Returns
Walmart delivered free cash flow of $7.0 billion for the nine months ended Oct. 31, 2012, compared to $3.4 billion the previous year. Return on investment (ROI) for the trailing 12 months ended Oct. 31, 2012 was 18.0 percent, compared to 18.2 percent for the same prior year period. The company's capital discipline benefitted ROI. However, this benefit was mostly offset by currency exchange rate fluctuations.
"Despite current economic conditions, we continue to produce solid operating results with strong cash flow from operations," said Charles Holley, executive vice president and chief financial officer. "The strength of our free cash flow allows us to provide good returns to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases."
 
Company updates full-year EPS guidance
"Current macroeconomic conditions continue to pressure our customers," said Holley. "The holiday season is predicted to be very competitive, but we are well prepared to deliver on the value and low prices our customers expect.
"We consider the competitive retail environment and economic factors, among others, when we provide guidance. Based on these considerations, we expect fourth quarter fiscal 2013 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to range between $1.53 and $1.58. This compares to last year's fourth quarter reported EPS of $1.51, which benefitted $0.07 from certain items," said Holley. "Net of those items, earnings per share for last year's fourth quarter would have been $1.44.
"For the full year, we are tightening and reaffirming the top end of our earnings per share guidance to a range of $4.88 to $4.93. This compares to our previous guidance of $4.83 to $4.93," Holley said. "Last year's full-year EPS was $4.54."
Operating segment details and analysis
Net sales
Net sales, including fuel, were as follows (dollars in billions):
 
The following explanations provide additional context to the above table for the third quarter.
 
 
 
 
Segment operating income
Segment operating income was as follows (dollars in billions):
 
The following explanations provide additional context to the above table for the third quarter.
 
 
 
 
"We were pleased that our constant currency sales and operating income were both up approximately 7 percent for the third quarter," said Doug McMillon, president and CEO of Walmart International. "We gained market share in almost all of our markets, indicating that our underlying business is performing well. We are working hard to improve execution where it's needed, and we're ready with great merchandise and price investments for the fourth quarter."
U.S. comparable store sales review and guidance
The company reported U.S. comparable store sales based on its 13-week and 39-week retail calendar periods ended Oct. 26, 2012 and Oct. 28, 2011, as follows:
 
 
During the 13-week period, the Walmart U.S. comp was driven by an increase in average ticket of 1.4 percent. Traffic was positive by 0.1 percent. All three geographic regions had positive comp sales.
"We again delivered strong sales across the business, adding $2.3 billion in revenue. Comp sales increased 1.5 percent this quarter, as we lapped a 1.3 percent comp last year," said Bill Simon, Walmart U.S. president and chief executive officer. "We're excited about the fourth quarter. November sales started ahead of plan. Our Black Friday plans are innovative and designed to drive additional traffic in our stores. We expect strong performance through Thanksgiving weekend."
For the 4-5-4 period from Oct. 27, 2012 through Jan. 25, 2013, Walmart U.S. expects comp store sales to range from 1.0 percent to 3.0 percent. The Walmart U.S. 13-week comp for last year's fourth quarter rose 1.5 percent.
For Sam's Club, comp traffic and ticket, excluding fuel, increased for both Business and Advantage members for the 13-week period ended Oct. 26.
"Sam's Club comp sales, while a solid 2.7 percent, fell short of our guidance. Business members in particular, continued to be pressured economically," said Rosalind Brewer, Sam's Club president and chief executive officer. "Inflation was lower than last quarter and much less than a year ago. While lower costs are good for our members, deflation impacted comp sales more than expected. Sam's Club is stepping up price investment for the holidays, and we are well prepared for our members' gifting and entertaining needs."
Sam's Club expects comp sales, without fuel, for the current 13-week period ending Jan. 25, 2013, to increase between 1.5 percent and 3.5 percent. Last year, Sam's Club comp, without fuel, for the fourth quarter comparable 13-week period rose 5.4 percent.
To align with the company's internal operating systems, Walmart will report comp sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013 on a 4-5-4 basis and will not recognize a 53-week retail calendar this year. For fiscal year 2014, Walmart will report comp store sales on a 53-week basis, with 4-5-5 reporting for the fourth quarter.
Both Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club will report comp sales for the 13-week period on Feb. 21, 2013, when the company reports fourth quarter results.
 
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) helps people around the world save money and live better  anytime and anywhere  in retail stores, online, and through their mobile devices. Each week, more than 200 million customers and members visit our 10,500 stores under 69 banners in 27 countries and e-commerce websites in 10 countries. With fiscal year 2012 sales of approximately $444 billion, Walmart employs more than 2 million associates worldwide. Walmart continues to be a leader in sustainability, corporate philanthropy and employment opportunity. Additional information about Walmart can be found by visiting http://corporate.walmart.com, and on Facebook at http://facebook.com/walmart and on Twitter at http://twitter.com/walmart. Online merchandise sales are available at http://www.walmart.com and http://www.samsclub.com.
Notes
After this earnings release has been furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), a pre-recorded call offering additional comments on the quarter will be available to all investors. Callers within the U.S and Canada may dial 877-523-5612 and enter passcode 9256278. All other callers can access the call by dialing 201-689-8483 and entering passcode 9256278. Information included in this release, including reconciliations, and the pre-recorded phone call are available in the investor information area on the company's website at www.stock.walmart.com.
Please note: Walmart has a new phone number for accessing the pre-recorded call.
High resolution photos of Walmart's U.S. business, Sam's Club and international operations are available for download at: www.stock.walmart.com.
Editor's Note:
Forward-looking statements
This release contains statements as to Walmart management's forecasts of the company's earnings per share for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year to end Jan. 31, 2013 (and certain assumptions underlying such forecasts), and management's expectations regarding the comparable store sales of the Walmart U.S. segment and comparable club sales, excluding fuel, of the Sam's Club segment of the company for the 13-week period from Oct. 27, 2012 through Jan. 25, 2013, and management's expectations that the Walmart U.S. operating segment will have strong performance through Thanksgiving weekend, that the company believes are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that act. Those statements can be identified by the use of the word or phrase "based on," "consider," "expect," "expects," "guidance," "we'll offer" and "will implement" in the statements or relating to such statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, domestically and internationally, including: general economic conditions; economic conditions affecting specific markets in which we operate; competitive pressures; inflation and deflation; consumer confidence, disposable income, credit availability, spending patterns and debt levels; the seasonality of Walmart's business and seasonal buying patterns in the United States and other markets; geo-political conditions and events; weather conditions and events and their effects; catastrophic events and natural disasters and their effects on Walmart's business; public health emergencies; civil unrest and disturbances and terrorist attacks; commodity prices; the cost of goods Walmart sells; transportation costs; the cost of diesel fuel, gasoline, natural gas and electricity; the selling prices of gasoline; disruption of Walmart's supply chain, including transport of goods from foreign suppliers; trade restrictions; changes in tariff and freight rates; labor costs; changes in employment laws and regulations; the cost of healthcare and other benefits; casualty and other insurance costs; accident-related costs; adoption of or changes in tax and other laws and regulations that affect Walmart's business, including changes in corporate tax rates; developments in, and the outcome of, legal and regulatory proceedings to which Walmart is a party or is subject; currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes in market interest rates; conditions and events affecting domestic and global financial and capital markets; and other risks. The company discusses certain of these factors more fully in certain of its filings
 
with the SEC, including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, and this release should be read in conjunction with that annual report on Form 10-K, together with all of the company's other filings, including its current reports on Form 8-K, made with the SEC through the date of this release. The company urges readers to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this release. As a result of these matters, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, the company's actual results may differ materially from the expected results discussed in the forward-looking statements contained in this release. We discuss our existing FCPA investigation and related matters in the filed portion of our Nov. 15, 2012 Form 8-K, as well as in our Form 10-Q filed on Sept. 6, 2012 and investors are referred to those SEC reports for information concerning those matters. The forward-looking statements made in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and Walmart undertakes no obligation to update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
The following information provides reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial measures presented in the press release to which this reconciliation is attached to the most nearly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The company has provided the non-GAAP financial information presented in the press release, which is not calculated or presented in accordance with GAAP, as information supplemental and in addition to the financial measures presented in the press release that are calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Such non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with, the GAAP financial measures presented in the press release. The non-GAAP financial measures in the press release may differ from similar measures used by other companies.
Free Cash Flow
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period. Free cash flow was $7.0 billion and $3.4 billion for the nine-months ended Oct. 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the company's financial performance. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, income from continuing operations as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity.
Additionally, our definition of free cash flow is limited, in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures as the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our entire statements of cash flows.
Although other companies report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company's free cash flow. As a result, the method used by our management to calculate free cash flow may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate their free cash flow. We urge you to understand the methods used by other companies to calculate their free cash flow before comparing our free cash flow to that of such other companies.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
 
 
Calculation of Return on Investment and Return on Assets
Management believes return on investment ("ROI") is a meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is deploying its assets. Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time, as management balances long-term potential strategic initiatives with any possible short-term impacts.
ROI was 18.0 percent and 18.2 percent for the trailing 12 months ended Oct. 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
We define ROI as adjusted operating income (operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense) for the fiscal year or trailing 12 months divided by average invested capital during that period. We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets of continuing operations, plus average accumulated depreciation and average amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period, plus a rent factor equal to the rent for the fiscal year or trailing 12 months multiplied by a factor of eight.
ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. We consider return on assets ("ROA") to be the financial measure computed in accordance with GAAP that is the most directly comparable financial measure to ROI as we calculate that financial measure. ROI differs from ROA (which is income from continuing operations for the fiscal year or trailing 12 months divided by average total assets of continuing operations for the period) because ROI: adjusts operating income to exclude certain expense items and adds interest income; adjusts total assets from continuing operations for the impact of accumulated depreciation and amortization, accounts payable and accrued liabilities; and incorporates a factor of rent to arrive at total invested capital.
Although ROI is a standard financial metric, numerous methods exist for calculating a company's ROI. As a result, the method used by management to calculate ROI may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate their ROI. We urge you to understand the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROI before comparing our ROI to that of such other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
Constant Currency
In discussing our operating results, we sometimes refer to the impact of changes in currency exchange rates that we use to convert the operating results for all countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. We calculate the effect of changes in currency exchange rates as the difference between current period activity translated using the current period's currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year period's currency exchange rates. Throughout our discussion, we refer to the results of this calculation as the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations. When we refer to constant currency operating results, we are referring to our operating results without the impact of the currency exchange rate fluctuations and without the impact of acquisitions until the acquisitions are included in both comparable periods. The disclosure of constant currency amounts or results permits investors to understand better our underlying performance without the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations or acquisitions.
The table below reflects the calculation of constant currency for net sales and operating income for the three and nine months ended Oct. 31, 2012, respectively.
 
 
 


