FILE:WMT/WMT-8K-20120816070103.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
In accordance with Item 2.02 of Form 8-K of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), is furnishing to the SEC a press release that the Company will issue on August 16, 2012 (the "Press Release"). The Press Release will disclose information regarding the Company's results of operations for the three months and six months ended July 31, 2012 and the Company's financial condition as of July 31, 2012.
The Press Release provides information regarding certain financial measures that may be considered non-GAAP financial measures (each, a "Non-GAAP Measure") under the rules of the SEC. Those Non-GAAP Measures include:
 
 
 
 
 
The Press Release sets forth the reasons why management of the Company believes the Free Cash Flow, ROI and the Constant Currency Measures provide useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company's management believes that the presentation of the Comparable Sales Measures and the Sam's Club Measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations because that information permits investors to understand the effect of the fuel sales of Sam's Club, which are affected by the volatility of fuel prices, on the Company's total U.S. comparable store sales, on Sam's Club's comparable club sales and on Sam's Club's net sales and operating income for the periods presented.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1A copy of the Press Release being furnished pursuant to the foregoing Item 2.02 is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: August 16, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
:
Q2 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) today reported financial results for the quarter ended July 31, 2012. Net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 were $113.5 billion, an increase of 4.5 percent from $108.6 billion in the second quarter last year. Net sales for this quarter included a negative currency exchange rate impact of approximately $2.2 billion. Without the currency impact, net sales would have been $115.7 billion. Membership and other income increased 4.7 percent to $762 million. Total revenue was $114.3 billion, an increase of 4.5 percent from last year.
BENTONVILLE, Ark., August 16, 2012
 
 
Income from continuing operations attributable to Walmart for the quarter was $4.0 billion, up 5.7 percent from the second quarter last year. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Walmart (EPS) for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 were $1.18. By comparison, last year's reported EPS were $1.09. The company had several items last year that negatively impacted the second quarter by approximately $0.03 per share.
Strong earnings performance
"Walmart had a strong second quarter, and I'm pleased with the earnings and overall results," said Mike Duke, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. president and chief executive officer. "We had positive comp sales in Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club, as well as each of our International markets, reinforcing that customers rely on Walmart to help them save money and live better."
The company leveraged operating expenses for the second quarter, delivering on its commitment to reduce costs, improve productivity and invest in price.
"Our intense focus on delivering productivity initiatives and reducing costs allowed us to invest in lower prices for our customers and to deliver strong profitability for shareholders," said Duke, who also highlighted the successful performance of the company's three operating segments.
"I'm really pleased with the continued momentum in our Walmart U.S. stores, evidenced, in part, by three consecutive quarters of positive comp traffic and four straight quarters of positive comp sales," Duke added. "The team is very focused on delivering broad assortment and price leadership. Walmart's low prices drive greater customer loyalty.
"Sam's Club had strong comp sales for the quarter. The quality and innovation behind merchandising and services are contributing to strong comps," said Duke. "The result of Sam's initiatives is greater value, which helps attract new members and strong renewals.
"We are also pleased with the sales and profitability of Walmart International," Duke said. "Our goal is to achieve more balance between profitability and returns, and we will do that by improving operational and sales productivity."
Duke also commented on the economic challenges facing customers.
"The paycheck cycle remains pronounced in the United States and in our International markets," Duke said. "Given continuing economic pressures, we believe that our price leadership and value are growing in importance to customers across income levels."
Returns
Walmart delivered free cash flow of $6.1 billion for the six months ended July 31, 2012, compared to $4.0 billion the previous year. Return on investment (ROI) for the trailing 12 months ended July 31, 2012 was 18.1 percent, compared to 18.4 percent for the prior period. The decline in ROI is attributable to higher levels of average working capital, capital expenditures and the impact of acquisitions.
"We remain committed to providing strong returns to our shareholders," said Charles Holley, executive vice president and chief financial officer. "Walmart returned $3.1 billion to shareholders in the quarter, which included $1.3 billion in dividends and $1.8 billion in share repurchases."
 
Company raises full-year EPS guidance
"We take a variety of factors including sales trends, the global economy and currency into account in providing our EPS guidance. We expect third quarter fiscal 2013 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to range between $1.04 and $1.09. This compares to last year's third quarter reported EPS of $0.97," said Holley. "We are raising and narrowing the company's full-year EPS guidance to a range of $4.83 to $4.93. Our previous range was $4.72 to $4.92. Last year's full-year EPS was $4.54."
Operating segment details and analysis
Net sales
Net sales, including fuel, were as follows (dollars in billions):
 
The following explanations provide additional context to the above table for the second quarter.
 
 
 
Segment operating income
Segment operating income was as follows (dollars in billions):
 
The following explanations provide additional context to the above table for the second quarter.
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. comparable store sales review and guidance
The company reported U.S. comparable store sales based on its 13-week and 26-week retail calendar periods ended July 27, 2012 and July 29, 2011, as follows:
 
During the 13-week period, both comp ticket and traffic rose for Walmart U.S., and both grocery and general merchandise had positive comp sales.
"Our comp sales momentum continued through the second quarter, with July being one of our strongest months. All three geographic business units and all store formats had positive comp sales. Customers are responding to our continued focus on providing the right assortment at everyday low prices and are shopping the entire store," said Bill Simon, Walmart U.S. president and chief executive officer. "We have a powerful strategy and I'm confident in our ability to deliver sustained strong financial performance."
For the 4-5-4 period from July 28 through October 26, Walmart U.S. expects comparable store sales to range from 1.0 percent to 3.0 percent. The Walmart U.S. 13-week comp for last year's third quarter rose 1.3 percent.
For Sam's Club, comparable traffic and ticket, excluding fuel, increased for both Business and Advantage members for the 13-week period ended July 27.
"Sam's Club had another impressive quarter, with positive comp sales from both Business and Advantage members. We believe that the improvements in our quality and overall merchandise offerings are key to driving these results," said Rosalind Brewer, Sam's Club president and chief executive officer. "Member engagement scores continue to achieve record levels, and we're investing in price to deliver greater value to our members."
 
 
Sam's Club expects comp sales, without fuel, for the current 13-week period to increase between 3.0 percent and 5.0 percent. Last year, Sam's Club comp, without fuel, for the third quarter comparable 13-week period rose 5.7 percent.
Both Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club will report comparable sales for the 13-week period on November 15, when the company reports third quarter results.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (NYSE: WMT) serves customers and members more than 200 million times per week at 10,351 retail units under 69 different banners in 27 countries. With fiscal year 2012 sales of $444 billion, Walmart employs more than 2 million associates worldwide. Walmart continues to be a leader in sustainability, corporate philanthropy and employment opportunity. Additional information about Walmart can be found by visiting .
http://www.walmartstores.com
Notes
After this earnings release has been furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), a pre-recorded call offering additional comments on the quarter will be available to all investors. Callers may listen to this call by dialing 800-778-6902 or 585-219-6420 outside the U.S. and Canada. Information included in this release, including reconciliations, and the pre-recorded phone call are available in the investor information area on the company's website at www.walmartstores.com/investors.
Forward-looking statements
This release contains statements as to Walmart management's forecasts of the company's earnings per share for the fiscal quarter to end Oct. 31, 2012 and for the fiscal year to end Jan. 31, 2013 (and certain assumptions underlying such forecasts), management's expectations regarding the comparable store sales of the Walmart U.S. segment and comparable club sales, excluding fuel, of the Sam's Club segment of the company for the 13-week period from Jul. 28, 2012 through Oct. 26, 2012, management's goal to achieve more balance between profitability and returns and management's expectation that it will do so by improving operational and sales productivity that the company believes are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that act. Those statements can be identified by the use of the word or phrase "based on," "expect," "expects," "goal," "guidance" and "will do that" in the statements or relating to such statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, domestically and internationally, including: general economic conditions; economic conditions affecting specific markets in which we operate; competitive pressures; inflation and deflation; consumer confidence, disposable income, credit availability, spending patterns and debt levels; the seasonality of Walmart's business and seasonal buying patterns in the United States and other markets; geo-political conditions and events; weather conditions and events and their effects; catastrophic events and natural disasters and their effects on Walmart's business; public health emergencies; civil unrest and disturbances and terrorist attacks; commodity prices; the cost of goods Walmart sells; transportation costs; the cost of diesel fuel, gasoline, natural gas and electricity; the selling prices of gasoline; disruption of Walmart's supply chain, including transport of goods from foreign suppliers; trade restrictions; changes in tariff and freight rates; labor costs; the availability of qualified labor pools in Walmart's markets; changes in employment laws and regulations; the cost of healthcare and other benefits; casualty and other insurance costs; accident-related costs; the cost of construction materials; the availability of acceptable building sites for new stores, clubs and facilities; zoning, land use and other regulatory restrictions; adoption of or changes in tax and other laws and regulations that affect Walmart's business, including changes in corporate tax rates; developments in, and the outcome of, legal and regulatory proceedings to which Walmart is a party or is subject; currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes in market interest rates; conditions and events affecting domestic and global
 
financial and capital markets; and other risks. The company discusses certain of these factors more fully in certain of its filings with the SEC, including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, and this release should be read in conjunction with that annual report on Form 10-K, together with all of the company's other filings, including its current reports on Form 8-K, made with the SEC through the date of this release. The company urges readers to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this release. As a result of these matters, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, the company's actual results may differ materially from the expected results discussed in the forward-looking statements contained in this release. We discuss our existing FCPA investigation and related matters in the filed portion of our May 17, 2012 Form 8-K, as well as in our Form 10-Q filed on June 1, 2012 and investors are referred to those SEC reports for information concerning those matters. The forward-looking statements made in this release are made only as of the date of this release, and Walmart undertakes no obligation to update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
SUBJECT TO RECLASSIFICATION
 
The following information provides reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial measures presented in the press release to which this reconciliation is attached to the most nearly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The company has provided the non-GAAP financial information presented in the press release, which is not calculated or presented in accordance with GAAP, as information supplemental and in addition to the financial measures presented in the press release that are calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Such non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with, the GAAP financial measures presented in the press release. The non-GAAP financial measures in the press release may differ from similar measures used by other companies.
Free Cash Flow
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period. Free cash flow was $6.1 billion and $4.0 billion for the six-months ended July 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes, however, that free cash flow, which measures our ability to generate additional cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the company's financial performance. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, income from continuing operations as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity.
Additionally, our definition of free cash flow is limited, in that it does not represent residual cash flows available for discretionary expenditures as the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our entire statements of cash flows.
Although other companies report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company's free cash flow. As a result, the method used by our management to calculate free cash flow may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate their free cash flow. We urge you to understand the methods used by other companies to calculate their free cash flow before comparing our free cash flow to that of such other companies.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, which we believe to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.
 
 
Calculation of Return on Investment and Return on Assets
Management believes return on investment ("ROI") is a meaningful metric to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is deploying its assets. Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time, as management balances long-term potential strategic initiatives with any possible short-term impacts.
ROI was 18.1 percent and 18.4 percent for the trailing 12 months ended July 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The decline in ROI is attributable to higher levels of average working capital, capital expenditures and the impact of acquisitions.
We define ROI as adjusted operating income (operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense) for the fiscal year or trailing 12 months divided by average invested capital during that period. We consider average invested capital to be the average of our beginning and ending total assets of continuing operations, plus average accumulated depreciation and average amortization, less average accounts payable and average accrued liabilities for that period, plus a rent factor equal to the rent for the fiscal year or trailing 12 months multiplied by a factor of eight.
ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. We consider return on assets ("ROA") to be the financial measure computed in accordance with GAAP that is the most directly comparable financial measure to ROI as we calculate that financial measure. ROI differs from ROA (which is income from continuing operations for the fiscal year or trailing 12 months divided by average total assets of continuing operations for the period) because ROI: adjusts operating income to exclude certain expense items and adds interest income; adjusts total assets from continuing operations for the impact of accumulated depreciation and amortization, accounts payable and accrued liabilities; and incorporates a factor of rent to arrive at total invested capital.
Although ROI is a standard financial metric, numerous methods exist for calculating a company's ROI. As a result, the method used by management to calculate ROI may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate their ROI. We urge you to understand the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROI before comparing our ROI to that of such other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
Constant Currency
In discussing our operating results, we sometimes refer to the impact of changes in currency exchange rates that we use to convert the operating results for all countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. We calculate the effect of changes in currency exchange rates as the difference between current period activity translated using the current period's currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year period's currency exchange rates. Throughout our discussion, we refer to the results of this calculation as the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations. When we refer to constant currency operating results, we are referring to our operating results without the impact of the currency exchange rate fluctuations and without the impact of acquisitions until the acquisitions are included in both comparable periods. The disclosure of constant currency amounts or results permits investors to understand better our underlying performance without the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations or acquisitions.
The table below reflects the calculation of constant currency for net sales and operating income for the 3 months ended July 31, 2012.
 
 


