FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20021018080356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    
Other Events
 
Mattel, Inc. hereby incorporates by reference herein its press release dated October 17, 2002 regarding its 2002 third quarter results of operations, a copy of which is included as Exhibit 99.0 attached hereto. This press release is a revised version which sets forth a correction to a percentage that was misstated in the original press release.
 
Item 7.    
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a)  Financial statements of businesses acquired: None
 
(b)  Pro forma financial information: None
 
(c)  Exhibits:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 18, 2002

EXHIBIT 99.0
 
 
CORRECTION
 
In the news release, "Mattel (NYSE: MAT) Reports 2002 Third Quarter Results," issued earlier today by Mattel, Inc. over PR Newswire, we are advised by the company that the sixth paragraph, third sentence, should read "The Entertainment category experienced a worldwide sales increase of 10 percent" rather than "The Entertainment category experienced a worldwide sales increase of 21 percent" as originally issued. This error, which was clerical in nature, pertains only to the calculation of this particular percentage and is not material. It has no effect upon any of the other information set forth in the release or the exhibits to the release, including sales data, gross margin, operating income and earnings per share.
 
 
 
 
Complete, corrected release follows:
 
 
Third Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., Oct. 17, 2002Mattel, Inc. (NYSE:MAT) today reported 2002 third quarter financial results. For the quarter, excluding non-recurring charges, income was $256.7 million, or $0.58 per share, versus last year's income of $216.7 million, or $0.50 per share excluding goodwill amortization. The company reported GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) net income, including non-recurring charges, of $280.6 million, or $0.63 per share, compared to last year's net income of $199.8 million, or $0.46 per share. Included in the GAAP results for the quarter is a $27.3 million after-tax gain from discontinued operations related to Gores Technology Group's sale of certain operating divisions of The Learning Company, in which Mattel has a contractual right to share.
 
For the quarter, net sales were $1.67 billion, a 6 percent increase from $1.58 billion last year. Operating income, excluding charges, was up 12 percent at $379.2 million. On a regional basis, third quarter gross sales increased 2 percent in the U.S. In international markets, quarterly gross sales were up 17 percent, or 15 percent in local currency.
 
"We are pleased with the performance across all areas of the business  our core brands are growing, margins are expanding, the balance sheet continues to show improvement and our cash flow is strong," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "As I've said before, while we are focused on the long term, there will be bumps along the way. The current disruption caused by the West Coast port dispute, coupled with an uncertain retail environment, presents near-term challenges, which we are working to overcome."
 
The company's long-term guidance remains unchanged with revenues expected to grow moderately in the mid-single-digit range and EPS growth to be in the low double-digits at the low end of the range to mid-teens at the high end of the range over the planning horizon.
 
Girls
 
The Girls division achieved worldwide gross sales of $727.6 million, an increase of 2 percent with performance driven by international growth in the Barbie
brand, as well as growth in the Polly Pocket!
and American Girl
brands. This growth was partially offset by declines in the large doll category, which includes the discontinuation of the Cabbage Patch Kids
line. International sales of Barbie
increased double-digits while domestic sales declined slightly, consistent with the company's continued strategy to reduce shipments of adult-targeted collector and holiday dolls.
 
Boys-Entertainment
 
Worldwide gross sales for the Boys-Entertainment division, which consists of the Wheels and Entertainment categories, were up 9 percent at $461.8 million. The Wheels category experienced an 8 percent increase in worldwide sales driven primarily by strong international sales. The Entertainment category experienced a worldwide sales increase of 10 percent with strong sales of the newly launched He-Man
and Masters of the Universe
, Yu-Gi-Oh!
and SpongeBob
SquarePants lines.
 
Infant and Preschool
 
Worldwide gross sales for the Infant and Preschool division, which includes the Fisher-Price
, Sesame Street
and Disney brands, were $629.5 million, up 9 percent. Worldwide sales of the core Fisher-Price brand increased 23 percent, bolstered by strong sales in the Rescue Heroes
, Baby Gear
and newly launched Imaginext
lines, more than offsetting declines in the character brands business.
Financial Realignment
 
Mattel recorded pre-tax charges of $5.5 million in the quarter as part of its $250 million financial realignment plan. The third quarter charges are largely related to the closure of its North American distribution and manufacturing facilities and streamlining back office functions. These charges are included in Cost of Sales ($0.9 million), Other Selling and Administrative Expenses ($2.3 million) and Other Income, Net ($2.3 million) in the consolidated statement of operations. Since the announcement of the plan in September 2000, Mattel has recorded $216.5 million in pre-tax charges. The company is on target to deliver initial cumulative cost savings of approximately $200 million from the financial realignment plan by year-end 2003.
 
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2002 third quarter earnings conference call at 5:30 a.m. Pacific time (8:30 a.m. Eastern time) today. The conference call will be simulcast on the "Investors & Media" section of . To listen to the call, log on to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the call may be accessed beginning three hours after the completion of the live call. To listen to a replay of the call via telephone, domestic and international callers should dial +(719) 457-0820. The passcode is 763971. The telephonic playback will be available for 48 hours beginning two hours after the completion of the live call.
www.mattel.com
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc. is the world's largest toy company and the leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys. The company's best-selling brands include Barbie
, Hot Wheels
, Fisher-Price
and American Girl
. With headquarters in El Segundo, California, Mattel has offices and facilities in 36 countries and sells its products in more than 150 nations throughout the world. The company's corporate Web site can be found at .
www.mattel.com
 
 
 
Note: Forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company, which may include, but are not limited to sales levels, restructuring, special charges, other non-recurring charges, cost savings, operating efficiencies and profitability, are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. These include without limitation: the company's dependence on the timely development, manufacture, introduction and customer acceptance of new products; the seasonality of the toy business; customer concentration; significant changes in buying patterns of major customers, including as a result of bankruptcy; adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including adverse changes in the retail environment; the impact of competition on revenues and margins; the effect of currency fluctuations on reportable income; risks associated with foreign operations; unanticipated negative results of litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters; possible work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, including as a result of labor disputes at ports in the Western U.S.; and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the company's public announcements and SEC filings. This release includes forward-looking statements about anticipated revenue and earnings per share growth, cost savings under the company's financial realignment plan, sales strategy and cost cutting initiatives. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
EXHIBIT I
 
 
 
EXHIBIT II
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT III
 
 
 
 
 


