FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20020718172622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    
Other Events
 
Mattel, Inc. hereby incorporates by reference herein its press release dated July 18, 2002 regarding its 2002 second quarter results of operations, a copy of which is included as Exhibit 99.0 attached hereto.
 
Item 7.    
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a)  Financial statements of businesses acquired: None
 
(b)  Pro forma financial information: None
 
(c)  Exhibits:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 18, 2002

 
Exhibit 99.0
 
 
Second Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., July 18, 2002Mattel, Inc. (NYSE:MAT) today reported 2002 second quarter financial results. For the quarter, excluding non-recurring charges, income was $29.6 million, or $0.07 per share, versus last year's income of $18.5 million, or $0.04 per share excluding goodwill amortization. The company reported GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) net income, including non-recurring charges, of $19.6 million, or $0.04 per share, compared to last year's net loss of $4.9 million, or $0.01 share.
 
For the quarter, net sales were $804.4 million, a 4 percent decline from $836.2 million last year. Operating income, excluding charges, was up 7 percent at $69.7 million. On a regional basis, second quarter gross sales decreased 7 percent in the U.S. In international markets, quarterly gross sales were up 3 percent, or 2 percent in local currency.
 
"While our sales performance met our expectations this quarter, I am very pleased with our continued improvement of the balance sheet. Compared to last year's second quarter, we reduced debt substantially and made significant progress in lowering inventory and receivables," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "Our efforts to improve our supply chain, reduce costs and execute the financial realignment plan are providing tangible and positive results."
 
The company's long-term guidance remains unchanged with revenues expected to grow moderately in the mid-single-digit range and EPS growth to be in the low double-digits at the low end of the range to mid-teens at the high end of the range over the planning horizon.
 
"Our sales for the quarter are consistent with our strategy to better align our shipments to retailers with consumer demand. As stated previously, we still expect to ship a higher proportion of the full-year production in the last half of the year," said Eckert. "I am pleased by our continued momentum in international markets despite the challenging sales comparisons from last year's quarter."
 
Girls
 
The Girls division, which includes the Barbie
, Polly Pocket!
, and American Girl
brands, achieved worldwide gross sales of $378.1 million, or flat with prior year. Barbie brand sales declined which were offset by growth in other doll brands, including the Diva Starz
, Polly Pocket!
and American Girl
brands.
 
Boys-Entertainment
 
Worldwide gross sales for the Boys-Entertainment division, which consists of the Wheels and Entertainment categories, were down 5 percent at $209.7 million. The Wheels category experienced a 4 percent decline in worldwide sales with strong international sales offset by lower domestic sales. The Entertainment category experienced a worldwide sales decline of 5 percent, with strong sales of the Harry Potter
line offset by the Disney
entertainment business.
 
Infant and Preschool
 
Worldwide gross sales for the Infant and Preschool division, which includes the Fisher-Price
, Sesame Street
and Disney brands, were $297.0 million, down 6 percent. Worldwide sales of the core Fisher-Price brand decreased by 4 percent, which offset growth in Barney
and Disney's Winnie the Pooh
brands.
 
Financial Realignment
 
Mattel recorded pre-tax charges of $15.0 million in the quarter as part of its $250 million financial realignment plan. The second quarter charges are largely related to the closure of its North American distribution and manufacturing facilities and international offices, and streamlining back office functions. These charges are included in Cost of Sales ($3.8 million), Other Selling and Administrative Expenses ($2.1 million), Restructuring and Other Charges ($6.9 million) and Other Income, Net ($2.2 million) in the consolidated statement of operations. Since the announcement of the plan in September 2000, Mattel has recorded $211.0 million in pre-tax charges. The company is on target to deliver initial cumulative cost savings of approximately $200 million from the financial realignment plan by year-end 2003.
 
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2002 second quarter earnings conference call at 5:30 a.m. Pacific time (8:30 a.m. Eastern time) today. The conference call will be simulcast on the "Investors & Media" section of To listen to the call, log on to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the call may be accessed beginning three hours after the completion of the live call. To listen to a replay of the call via telephone, domestic and international callers should dial + (719) 457-0820. The passcode is 262002. The telephonic playback will be available for 72 hours beginning at 8:30 a.m. Pacific time (11:30 a.m. Eastern time) the morning of the call.
www.mattel.com.
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc. is the world's largest toy company and the leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys. The company's best-selling brands include Barbie
, Hot Wheels
, Fisher-Price
and American Girl
. With headquarters in El Segundo, California, Mattel has offices and facilities in 36 countries and sells its products in more than 150 nations throughout the world. The company's corporate Web site can be found at
www.mattel.com.
 
 
Note: Forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company, which may include, but are not limited to sales levels, restructuring, special charges, other non-recurring charges, cost savings, operating efficiencies and profitability, are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could
 
cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. These include without limitation: the company's dependence on the timely development, manufacture, introduction and customer acceptance of new products; the seasonality of the toy business; customer concentration; significant changes in buying patterns of major customers, including as a result of bankruptcy; adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including adverse changes in the retail environment; the impact of competition on revenues and margins; the effect of currency fluctuations on reportable income; risks associated with foreign operations; unanticipated negative results of litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters; possible work stoppages or strikes; and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the company's public announcements and SEC filings. This release includes forward-looking statements about anticipated revenue and earnings per share growth, cost savings under the company's financial realignment plan, timing of sales, supply chain initiatives, and cost cutting initiatives. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
EXHIBIT I
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT II
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT III
 
 
 
 
 
 


