FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20030203165945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    
Other Events
 
Mattel, Inc. hereby incorporates by reference herein its press release dated February 3, 2003 regarding its 2002 fourth quarter and full year results of operations, a copy of which is included as Exhibit 99.0 attached hereto.
 
Item 7.    
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a)  Financial statements of businesses acquired: None
 
(b)  Pro forma financial information: None
 
(c)  Exhibits:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: February 3, 2003
 

 
 
Full-Year Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., February 3, 2003  Mattel, Inc. (NYSE:MAT) today reported 2002 full year and fourth quarter financial results. For the year, excluding non-recurring charges, income was $486.9 million, or $1.10 per share, versus last year's income of $386.3 million, or $0.89 per share, excluding goodwill amortization. Included in full-year income is a pre-tax charge of $25.4 million for the settlement of shareholder litigation related to the 1999 acquisition of The Learning Company. The company reported GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) net income of $230.1 million, or $0.52 per share, compared to last year's net income of $298.9 million, or $0.68 per share.
 
Included in the GAAP results for the year are a $27.3 million after-tax gain from discontinued operations related to Gores Technology Group's sale of certain operating divisions of The Learning Company, a one-time transition charge of $252.2 million, after-tax, recorded as the cumulative effect of change in accounting principles resulting from the transitional impairment test of the Pleasant Company goodwill and a $31.9 million non-recurring, after-tax charge related to the financial realignment plan.
 
For the year, net sales were $4.89 billion, a 4 percent increase from $4.69 billion last year. Operating income, excluding charges, was up 14 percent at $783.7 million. On a regional basis, full-year gross sales increased 1 percent in the U.S., and in international markets, full-year gross sales were up 12 percent, or 11 percent in local currency.
 
For the fourth quarter, excluding non-recurring charges, income was $190.3 million, or $0.43 per share, versus last year's income of $154.9 million, or $0.35 per share, excluding goodwill amortization. Included in income for the fourth quarter is a pre-tax charge of $25.4 million for the settlement of shareholder litigation related to the 1999 acquisition of The Learning Company. Including non-recurring charges, GAAP fourth quarter net income was $186.1 million, or $0.42 per share, compared to last year's net income of $138.0 million, or $0.31 per share. Fourth quarter net sales were $1.70 billion, up 7 percent, compared to last year's fourth quarter. Operating income, excluding charges, was up 14 percent at $291.1 million. During the fourth quarter, gross sales in the U.S. increased 6 percent, while international gross sales increased 11 percent, or 8 percent in local currency.
 
"I am very pleased with the company's performance in 2002. Despite the West Coast port dispute and a very challenging retail environment, we were able to keep our focus and optimize results through sound execution of our strategies," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "While we clearly had a strong year, we see more opportunities to improve our performance as we look ahead, but we also see a continuation of the challenging business environment."
 
The company's long-term guidance remains unchanged with revenues expected to grow moderately in the mid-single-digit range and EPS growth to be in the low double-digits at the low end of the range to mid-teens at the high end of the range over the planning horizon.
 
Girls
 
For the year, the Girls division achieved worldwide gross sales of $2.31 billion, an increase of 6 percent, with performance driven by international growth in the Barbie
brand, as well as growth in the Polly Pocket!
and American Girl
brands. This growth was partially offset by declines in the large doll category, including the discontinuation of the Cabbage Patch Kids
line. International Barbie
sales increased double-digits while domestic sales declined slightly, consistent with the company's strategy to reduce shipments of adult-targeted collector and holiday dolls.
 
For the fourth quarter, the Girls division realized worldwide gross sales of $838.4 million, a 10 percent increase, which included a 17 percent increase in Barbie
sales. American Girl
sales declined 1 percent for the quarter.
 
Boys-Entertainment
 
Full year, worldwide gross sales for the Boys-Entertainment division, which consists of the Wheels and Entertainment categories, were up 2 percent to $1.30 billion. The Wheels category achieved a 3 percent increase in worldwide sales, driven by strong international sales. The Entertainment category achieved a worldwide sales increase of 2 percent, with strong sales of the He-Man
and Masters of the Universe
, Yu-Gi-Oh!
and SpongeBob
SquarePants lines offsetting sales declines in the Harry Potter
and Disney entertainment businesses.
 
For the fourth quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Boys-Entertainment division decreased by 3 percent to $418.1 million, with sales in the Wheels category declining by 2 percent and Entertainment sales down by 4 percent. Declines in sales of Tyco
R/C and Harry Potter
more than offset gains in Hot Wheels
, Matchbox
and other entertainment categories.
 
Infant and Preschool
 
Full year, worldwide gross sales for the Infant and Preschool division, which includes the Fisher-Price
, Sesame Street
and Disney brands, were $1.70 billion, up 5 percent. Worldwide sales of the core Fisher-Price
brand increased 9 percent, bolstered by strong sales in the Babygear
, Rescue Heroes
and Little People
lines.
 
For the fourth quarter, the Infant and Preschool division achieved a 14 percent increase to $548.7 million in worldwide gross sales, with core Fisher-Price
brands up 8 percent.
 
Financial Realignment
 
Mattel recorded pre-tax charges of $48.3 million in the year as part of its $250 million financial realignment plan. The full year charges are largely related to the closure of the company's North American distribution and manufacturing facilities and international offices, and the streamlining of back office functions. These charges are included in Cost of Sales ($10.4 million), Other Selling and Administrative Expenses ($8.1 million), Restructuring and Other Charges ($24.6 million) and Other Expense, Net ($5.2 million) in the consolidated statement of operations. Since the announcement of the plan in September 2000, Mattel has recorded $223.7 million in pre-tax charges. The company is on target to deliver initial cumulative cost savings of at least $200 million from the financial realignment plan by year-end 2003.
 
Mattel recorded pre-tax charges of $7.2 million in the quarter as part of the financial realignment plan. The fourth quarter charges are largely related to the closure of the company's North American distribution and manufacturing facilities and the streamlining of back office functions. These charges are included in Cost of Sales ($1.7 million), Other Selling and Administrative Expenses ($2.8 million), Restructuring and Other Charges ($2.9 million) and Other Expense, Net ($0.2 million of income) in the consolidated statement of operations.
 
Capital and Investment Framework
 
To guide its capital deployment decisions going forward, with a goal of maximizing shareholder value, the company's Board of Directors has established a capital and investment framework. Assuming the company continues to generate strong cash flow, it plans to invest within the following framework:
 
 
 
 
Given this framework and the company's long-range outlook, Mattel may generate more than $1.5 billion of excess free cash flow over the next three years. The company's current plans call for it to utilize free cash flow opportunistically, as follows:
 
 
 
The company plans to continue utilizing a disciplined decision-making process, which is based on a discounted cash flow evaluation of investment alternatives and requires a yield in excess of cost of capital.
 
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2002 fourth quarter and full year earnings conference call at 5:30 a.m. Pacific time (8:30 a.m. Eastern time) today. The conference call will be simulcast on the "Investors & Media" section of . To listen to the call, log on to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the call may be accessed beginning three hours after the completion of the live call. To listen to a replay of the call via telephone, domestic and international callers should dial +(719) 457-0820. The passcode is 433974. The telephonic playback will be available for 48 hours beginning two hours after the completion of the live call.
www.mattel.com
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc. is the world's largest toy company and the leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys. The company's best-selling brands include Barbie
, Hot Wheels
, Fisher-Price
and American Girl
. With headquarters in El Segundo, California, Mattel has offices and facilities in 36 countries and sells its products in more than 150 nations throughout the world. The company's corporate Web site can be found at .
www.mattel.com
 
 
Note: Forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company, which may include, but are not limited to sales levels, restructuring, special charges, other non-recurring charges, cost savings, operating efficiencies, cash flow, investments, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, plans to employ capital and make investments and profitability are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. These include without limitation: the company's dependence on the timely development, manufacture, introduction and customer acceptance of new products; the seasonality of the toy business; customer concentration; significant changes in buying and payment patterns of major customers, including as a result of bankruptcy; adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including adverse changes in the retail environment; the impact of competition on revenues and margins; the effect of currency fluctuations on reportable income; risks associated with acquisitions and mergers including the possibility that attractive opportunities will not be identified or consummated and that such transactions may not result in the intended objective; risks associated with foreign operations; negative results of litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters; possible work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes; and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the company's public announcements and SEC filings. This release includes forward-looking statements about anticipated revenue and earnings per share growth, cost savings under the company's financial realignment plan, sales strategy, cost cutting initiatives, and Mattel's plans to deploy capital and make investments (including statements regarding expected cash flow, internal funding of seasonal working capital, debt-to-equity ratios, long term debt ratings, capital expenditures, acquisitions, cash dividends, share repurchases and the decision-making process) and may include other forward-looking statements. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
EXHIBIT I
 
 
 
 
NoteCertain financial information for prior years has been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.
 
EXHIBIT II
 
 
 
 
NoteCertain financial information for prior years has been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.
 
EXHIBIT III
 
 
 
 
NoteCertain financial information for prior years has been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.


