FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20031015214709.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)  Financial statements of businesses acquired: None
 
(b)  Pro forma financial information: None
 
(c)  Exhibits:
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Items 9 and 12 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure and
 
Item 12.    Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 16, 2003, Mattel issued a press release regarding its results of operations for the third quarter of 2003, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.0 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In its third quarter 2003 press release, Mattel includes the following non-GAAP financial measures, which it uses to analyze its continuing operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance:
 
 
Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments such as trade discounts and other allowances. Management believes that changes in gross sales highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because most sales adjustments are not allocated to individual brands, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibits IV and V to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.0 in this Form 8-K.
 
Operating income before charges, after-tax income before charges, and EPS before charges include adjustments to GAAP income and EPS to exclude income related to the reversal of a 1999 reserve and remove the impact of charges that are part of a three-year financial realignment plan that will be completed in 2003 (all of which are described in Mattel's quarterly press releases). Management believes these non-GAAP financial measures assist management and investors in evaluating, and comparing from period-to-period, Mattel's results from ongoing operations in a more meaningful and consistent manner while also highlighting significant trends in the results of operations. In addition, management uses operating income before charges for a variety of purposes, including devising operating targets, evaluating actual performance against such targets at the company, business unit and individual level, evaluating trends in Mattel's results of operations, and forecasting. A reconciliation of operating income before charges, after-tax income before charges, and EPS before charges to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, income from continuing operations, is provided in Exhibits IV and V to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.0 in this Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 16, 2003
 

EXHIBIT 99.0
 
 
 
Third Quarter Highlights
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., October 16, 2003  Mattel, Inc. (NYSE:MAT) today reported 2003 third quarter financial results. For the quarter, excluding income related to the reversal of a 1999 reserve and charges related to the financial realignment plan, income was $265.2 million, or $0.60 per share, versus last year's third quarter income of $256.7 million, or $0.58 per share. The company reported GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) net income of $270.0 million for the quarter, or $0.61 per share, compared to last year's third quarter income of $280.6 million, or $0.63 per share.
 
This year's GAAP income includes other operating income of $7.9 million from the reversal of a reserve accrued in 1999 related to the closure of the Beaverton manufacturing facility and pre-tax charges of $0.3 million as part of its $250 million financial realignment plan. Last year's GAAP income included an after-tax gain from discontinued operations of $27.3 million related to the sale of certain operating divisions of The Learning Company and pre-tax charges of $5.5 million as part of its $250 million financial realignment plan.
 
For the quarter, net sales were $1.70 billion, up 2 percent compared to last year's third quarter net sales of $1.67 billion. On a regional basis, domestic third quarter gross sales decreased by 4 percent while international third quarter gross sales increased by 16 percent, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 7 percentage points.
 
"As it relates to the top line, we continue to face a challenging retail environment domestically, but I am encouraged as momentum is beginning to build at retail in the U.S. and internationally," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "We continue to focus on further developing a culture of continuous improvement in all areas of the business, including reducing costs and strengthening the balance sheet."
 
Mattel Brands Business Unit
 
Worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Brands business unit were $1.16 billion, a 3 percent increase. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were up 8 percent with double-digit international gains partially offset by flat domestic sales. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 15 percent for the quarter with strong sales of the Flavas, Polly Pocket! and ello brands which more than offset sales declines in the What's Her Face! and Diva Starz brands.
 
For the quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were down 6 percent. Gains in international sales for Hot Wheels were offset by declines in domestic Hot Wheels and Tyco R/C sales and worldwide sales declines in Matchbox.
 
Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment category, which includes the Games and Puzzles segment, were down 6 percent for the quarter with sales declines in the Harry Potter property partially offset by strong performances by the new Warner Bros. properties, Yu-Gi-Oh! and Games & Puzzles.
 
Fisher-Price Brands Business Unit
 
Third quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price, Little People, Rescue Heroes and Power Wheels brands, were $641.1 million, up 2 percent. Strong sales of core Fisher-Price internationally and worldwide sales of Fisher-Price Friends, previously referred to as licensed character brands, were offset by shipment declines in core Fisher-Price in the U.S.
 
American Girl Brands Business Unit
 
Third quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products direct to consumers, were $56.3 million, down 2 percent, reflecting declines in Bitty Baby and the American Girl Collection lines, which were partially offset by strong sales from new product launches in the American Girl Today and Hopscotch Hill School lines.
 
Financial Realignment Plan
 
Mattel recorded pre-tax charges of $0.3 million in the quarter as part of its $250 million financial realignment plan. The third quarter charges are related to the consolidation of two manufacturing facilities in Mexico and are included in Restructuring and Other Charges in the consolidated statement of operations. Since the announcement of the plan in September 2000, Mattel has recorded $249.6 million in pre-tax charges. The company is on track to deliver at least the targeted initial cumulative pre-tax cost savings of approximately $200 million over the three-year duration of the plan.
 
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2003 third quarter earnings conference call at 5:30 a.m. Pacific time (8:30 a.m. Eastern time) today. The conference call will be simulcast on the "Investors & Media" section of . To listen to the live call, logon to the Website at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the call may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. To listen to a replay of the call via telephone, dial (719) 457-0820. The passcode is 239917. The telephonic playback will be available beginning at 8:30 a.m. Pacific time the morning of the call, until Friday, October 17 at 9 p.m. Pacific time.
www.mattel.com
 
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of , under the headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
www.mattel.com
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc., (NYSE: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products, including Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever created. Leading the toy and game market, the Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands (www.fisher-price.com), including Little People, Rescue Heroes, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs more than 25,000 people in 36 countries and sells products in more than 150 nations throughout the world. The Mattel vision is to be the world's premier toy brands  today and tomorrow.
 
 
Note: Forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. These include without limitation: the company's dependence on the timely development, manufacture, introduction and customer acceptance of new products; the seasonality of the toy business; customer concentration; significant changes in buying and payment patterns of major customers, including as a result of bankruptcy; adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including adverse changes in the retail environment, employment and the stock market; order predictability and supply chain management; the impact of competition on revenues and margins; the supply and cost of raw materials, components and services; the success of new initiatives; the effect of currency fluctuations on reportable income; risks associated with acquisitions and mergers; risks associated with
 
foreign operations; negative results of litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters; possible work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes; possible outbreaks of SARS; political developments and the threat or occurrence of war or terrorist acts; and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the company's public announcements and SEC filings. This release includes forward-looking statements about cost savings under the company's financial realignment plan and continuous improvement initiatives. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
PRO FORMA BEFORE CHARGES
SEPTEMBER 30, 2003
 
 
PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
PRO FORMA BEFORE CHARGES
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES 
 
 
 
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
 
 


