FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20031113133120.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)  Financial statements of businesses acquired: None
 
(b)  Pro forma financial information: None
 
(c)  Exhibits:
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Items 9 and 12 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
 
Immediately after the filing of this Form 8-K, Mattel anticipates posting on its corporate website, under the "Investors & Media - Financial Information - Financial History" section, revised Pro Forma Quarterly Trends and Reconciliation of GAAP to Pro Forma schedules, reflecting the addition to such schedules of segment information for the three months ended September 30, 2003, a copy of which is furnished herewith. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
www.mattel.com
 
In Exhibit 99.0, Mattel includes the following non-GAAP financial measures, which its uses to analyze its continuing operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance:
 
 
 
Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments such as trade discounts and other allowances. Management believes that changes in gross sales highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because most sales adjustments are not allocated to individual brands, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit 99.0 furnished in this
Form 8-K.
 
Operating income before charges includes adjustments to GAAP operating income to exclude income related to the reversal of a 1999 reserve and remove the impact of charges that are part of a three-year financial realignment plan that will be completed in 2003 (all of which are described in Mattel's quarterly press releases). Management believes this non-GAAP financial measure assists management and investors in evaluating, and comparing from period-to-period, Mattel's results from ongoing operations in a more meaningful and consistent manner while also highlighting significant trends in the results of operations. A reconciliation of operating income before charges to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, operating income, is provided in Exhibit 99.0 furnished in this Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: November 13, 2003
 

EXHIBIT 99.0
 
MATTEL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
SEGMENT INFORMATION
FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2003
($ in millions)
 
 


