FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20040420061204.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned registrant hereby amends and restates in its entirety, and as set forth herein, its Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 20, 2004, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 20, 2004. Specifically, Exhibit 99.0 of Item 7 of the Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 20, 2004, has been amended to correct an erroneous presentation in Exhibit II of the "Pos./(Neg.) Impact of Currency (in % pts)" for the three months ended March 31, 2003, in every instance.
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)  Financial statements of businesses acquired: None
 
(b)  Pro forma financial information: None
 
(c)  Exhibits:
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Items 9 and 12 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure and
 
Item 12.    Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 20, 2004, Mattel issued a press release regarding its 2004 first quarter results of operations, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.0 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In its 2004 first quarter press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its continuing operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance.
 
Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because most sales adjustments are not allocated to individual brands, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.0 in this Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 20, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
 
 
First Quarter Financial Highlights
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., April 20, 2004  Mattel, Inc. (NYSE:MAT) today reported 2004 first quarter financial results. For the quarter, the company reported net income of $9.0 million, or $0.02 per share, compared to last year's first quarter net income of $32.8 million, or $0.07 per share.
 
"While we are not surprised by the results for the quarter, we are not pleased," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "As I have said before, improving topline growth is our main focus for the year, and we will continue to invest in programs and initiatives in order to drive future topline growth."
 
First Quarter Financial Overview
 
For the quarter, net sales were $780.9 million, a 5 percent increase from $745.3 million last year, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 5 percentage points. Additionally, beginning in last year's fourth quarter, the company changed the way it classifies certain close out sales resulting in a 1.8 percentage point benefit to net sales for the first quarter of 2004 when compared to the year ago quarter. On a regional basis, first quarter gross sales decreased 1 percent in the U.S., and in international markets, first quarter gross sales were up 15 percent, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 12 percentage points.
 
Operating income was down 76 percent at $12.7 million, primarily reflecting continued cost pressures and the company's investment in growth and continuous improvement initiatives. In the first quarter of 2003, operating income included charges of $11.6 million associated with the company's financial realignment plan, which was completed in the fourth quarter of 2003. From time to time, the company expects to invest in initiatives intended to enhance productivity and improve margins, and while the company will continue to provide information regarding the cost of these initiatives, it will no longer provide the pro forma impact on results.
 
The company's balance sheet continued on track with a debt-to-total-capital ratio of 24 percent, which is consistent with the company's long-term goal. During the quarter, the company's cash and short-term investments declined by approximately $365 million, an improvement of $134 million compared with last year's first quarter driven primarily by improvements in net cash used for operations.
 
First Quarter Sales by Business Unit
 
Mattel Brands
 
For the first quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Brands business unit were $532.1 million, or flat versus a year ago, reflecting an 11 percent decline in domestic sales offset by a 13 percent increase in international sales, driven by currency exchange rates. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 6 percent. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were down 1 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were up 1 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment category, which includes the Games and Puzzles segment, were up 16 percent for the quarter.
 
Fisher-Price Brands
 
First quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price, PowerTouch, Little People, Rescue Heroes and Power Wheels brands, were $264.0 million, up 13 percent due to strong worldwide sales of core Fisher-Price and Fisher-Price Friends.
 
American Girl Brands
 
First quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products direct to consumers, were $54.1 million, up 17 percent, primarily due to sales generated by the new American Girl Place retail store in New York City, which opened in November 2003.
 
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2004 first quarter earnings conference call at 5:30 a.m. Pacific Standard time (8:30 a.m. Eastern Standard time) today. The conference call will be simulcast on the "Investors & Media" section of . To listen to the live call, logon to the Website at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the call may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. To listen to a replay of the call via telephone, dial + (719) 457-0820. The passcode is 461872. The telephonic playback will be available beginning at 8:30 a.m. Pacific Standard time the morning of the call, until Wednesday, April 21st at 9 p.m. Pacific Standard time.
www.mattel.com
 
Mattel reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding any non-GAAP financial measures provided for analytical purposes, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of , under the headings "Financial Information""Earnings Releases."
www.mattel.com
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc., (NYSE: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products, including Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever created. Leading the toy and game market, the Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands (www.fisher-price.com), including Little People, Rescue Heroes, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs more than 25,000 people in 36 countries and sells products in more than 150 nations throughout the world. The Mattel vision is to be the world's premier toy brandstoday and tomorrow.
 
 
Note: Forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. These include without limitation: the company's dependence on the timely development, manufacture, introduction and customer acceptance of new products; the seasonality of the toy business; customer concentration and pricing; significant changes in buying and payment patterns of major customers, including as a result of bankruptcy; adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including adverse changes in the retail environment, employment and the stock market; order predictability and supply chain management; the impact of competition on revenues and margins; the supply and cost of raw materials, components, employee benefits and various services; the success of new initiatives; the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on reportable income; risks associated with acquisitions and mergers; risks associated with foreign operations; negative results of litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters; possible work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes; possible outbreaks of SARS or other diseases; political developments and the threat or occurrence of war or terrorist acts; the inherent risk of new initiatives and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the company's public announcements and SEC filings. This release contains forward-looking statements about revenue growth and initiatives to drive revenue growth, future programs to enhance productivity and margins, and the company's long-term debt-to-capital ratio goal. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE GROSS SALES INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW DATA (Unaudited)
 
 


