FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20040202215916.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)  Financial statements of businesses acquired: None
 
(b)  Pro forma financial information: None
 
(c)  Exhibits:
 
These exhibits are furnished pursuant to Items 9 and 12 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
 
Immediately after the filing of this Form 8-K, Mattel anticipates posting on its corporate website, under the "Investors & Media - Financial Information - Financial History" section, updated Pro Forma Annual Trends and Pro Forma Quarterly Trends schedules, reflecting the addition to such schedules of the quantification of close out sales amounts for the years ended December 31, 1997 through 2003 and the quarterly periods for 2001 through 2003, respectively, copies of which are furnished herewith. These exhibits are incorporated herein by reference.
www.mattel.com
 
Close out sales are sales of certain products that are no longer included in current product lines. Effective October 1, 2003, close out sales previously classified as a reduction of cost of sales are now classified as net sales in the company's consolidated statements of operations. This change in classification has no impact on gross profit, operating income, net income, EPS, balance sheets or cash flows.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: February 3, 2004
 

EXHIBIT 99.0
 
MATTEL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
QUANTIFICATION OF CLOSE OUT SALES AMOUNTS (a)
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
MATTEL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
QUANTIFICATION OF CLOSE OUT SALES AMOUNTS (a)
 
 
statement of operations. Close out sales are sales of certain products that are no longer included in current product
lines. These sales were previously classified as a reduction of cost of sales. Commencing October 1, 2003,
close out sales are reported as net sales in Mattel's consolidated statements of operations. This change in
classification has no impact on gross profit, operating income, net income, EPS, balance sheets or cash flows.
 
close out sales in the amounts shown above are classified as a reduction of cost of sales.
 


