FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20041015194142.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.    Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 18, 2004, Mattel issued a press release regarding its 2004 third quarter results of operations, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In its 2004 third quarter press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its continuing operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance.
 
Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
 
Item 7.01.    Regulation FD Disclosure and
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)  Financial statements of businesses acquired: None
 
(b)  Pro forma financial information: None
 
(c)  Exhibits:
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 18, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Third Quarter Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., October 18, 2004  Mattel, Inc. (NYSE:MAT) today reported 2004 third quarter financial results. For the quarter, the company reported net income of $255.9 million, or $0.61 per share, compared to last year's third quarter net income of $270.0 million, or $0.61 per share.
 
"Earnings per share for the quarter was flat with prior year reflecting that the underlying performance of our business remains quite challenging," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "As consumers respond to economic uncertainty, many retailers have been reluctant to take inventory risk for the holiday season. Given this environment, our focus continues to be on executing strategies to maximize our performance at retail."
 
Third Quarter Financial Overview
 
For the quarter, net sales were $1.67 billion, a 2 percent decrease from $1.70 billion last year, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points.
 
Additionally, beginning in last year's fourth quarter, the company changed the way it classifies certain close out sales resulting in a 0.7 percentage point benefit to net sales for the third quarter of 2004 when compared to the year ago quarter. On a regional basis, third quarter gross sales decreased 9 percent in the U.S., and in international markets, third quarter gross sales were up 6 percent, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 4 percentage points.
 
For the third quarter, operating income was $360.9 million, a decrease of 7 percent compared to the prior year, driven primarily by lower sales volume and lower gross margins. In the third quarter of 2003, operating income included income of $7.9 million associated with an adjustment of a reserve accrued in 1999 related to the closure of the Beaverton manufacturing facility partially offset by charges related to the company's financial realignment plan, which was completed in the fourth quarter of 2003. From time to time, the company expects to invest in initiatives intended to enhance productivity and improve margins, and while the company will continue to provide information regarding the cost of these initiatives, it will no longer provide the pro forma impact on results.
 
The company's balance sheet continued on track with a debt-to-total-capital ratio of 24.2 percent, which is consistent with the company's long-term goal. During the nine months ended September 30, 2004, the company's cash and short-term investments declined by approximately $822 million, compared to a decline of $866 million in the prior year period.
 
Third Quarter Sales by Business Unit
 
Mattel Brands
 
For the third quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Brands business unit were $1.06 billion, a decrease of 9 percent versus a year ago, reflecting an 18 percent decline in domestic sales and a 2 percent increase in international sales. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 13 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were down 3 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment category, which includes the Games and Puzzles business, were up 13 percent for the quarter.
 
Fisher-Price Brands
 
Third quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price, PowerTouch, Little People, Rescue Heroes and Power Wheels brands, were $683.1 million, up 7 percent due to strong worldwide sales of core Fisher-Price and Fisher-Price Friends.
 
American Girl Brands
 
Third quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products direct to consumers, were $61.5 million, up 9 percent, primarily due to sales generated by the new American Girl Place retail store in New York City, which opened in November 2003 partially offset by declines in other channels.
 
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2004 third quarter earnings conference call at 8 a.m. Eastern time (5 a.m. Pacific time) today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Web site, www.mattel.com. To listen to the live call, logon to the Website at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the call may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. To listen to a replay of the call via telephone, dial + (719) 457-0820. The passcode is 944361. The telephonic playback will be available beginning at noon Eastern time (9 a.m. Pacific time) the morning of the call, until Wednesday, October 20th at midnight Eastern time (9 p.m. Pacific time).
 
Mattel reports its financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding any non-GAAP financial measures provided for analytical purposes, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of www.mattel.com, under the headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc., (NYSE: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products, including Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever created. The Mattel family is also comprised of such best-selling brands as Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands (www.fisher-price.com), including Little People, Rescue Heroes, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs more than 25,000 people in 36 countries and sells products in more than 150 nations throughout the world. The Mattel vision is to be the world's premier toy brands  today and tomorrow.
 
 
Note: Forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. These include without limitation: the company's dependence on the timely development, manufacture, introduction and customer acceptance of new products; the seasonality of the toy business; customer concentration and pricing; significant changes in buying and payment patterns of major customers, including as a result of bankruptcy; adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including adverse changes in the retail environment, employment and the stock market; order predictability and supply chain management; the impact of competition, including from private label toys, on revenues and margins; the supply and cost of raw materials (including oil and resin prices), components, employee benefits and various services; the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on reportable income; risks associated with acquisitions and mergers; the possibility of product recalls and related costs; risks associated with foreign operations; negative results of litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters; possible work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes; possible outbreaks of SARS or other diseases; political developments and the threat or occurrence of war or terrorist acts; the possibility of catastrophic events; the inherent risk of new initiatives and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the company's public announcements and SEC filings. This release contains forward-looking statements about consumer demand, customer inventory levels, the company's performance at retail, investment in initiatives aimed at productivity and margins and the company's debt-to-capital ratio goal. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE GROSS SALES INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW DATA (Unaudited)
 
 
 


