FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20050718084004.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 18, 2005, Mattel issued a press release regarding its second quarter 2005 financial results, a copy of which is furnished at Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In its second quarter 2005 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of income, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
 
In its second quarter 2005 press release, Mattel uses a financial measure that may be a non-GAAP financial measure, an American Jobs Creation Act-related tax expense of $0.28 per share, which discloses the impact of such tax expense on the reported loss per share of $0.23. This measure has been disclosed since it could be meaningful in evaluating Mattel's operating results and financial condition for the quarter in light of the nature and magnitude of the expense. This measure is used by management to analyze the profitability of Mattel's business for the second quarter of, and full year, 2005.
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: July 18, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Second Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., July 18, 2005  Mattel, Inc. (NYSE: MAT) today reported 2005 second quarter financial results. For the quarter, the company reported a net loss of $94.0 million, or $0.23 per share, compared to last year's second quarter net income of $23.5 million, or $0.06 per share. The net loss for the second quarter was significantly impacted by incremental tax expense of $112.9 million, or $0.28 per share, resulting from the company's decision to repatriate $2.4 billion in unremitted foreign earnings under AJCA.
 
"While this quarter's results were positively impacted by improving sales trends across our portfolio of brands, including key contributions from entertainment properties, our margins were under pressure," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "We continue to expect 2005 to be a challenging year as we focus on the all-important second half."
Financial Overview
 
For the quarter, net sales were $886.8 million, up 10 percent compared to $804.0 million last year, and included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. On a regional basis, second quarter gross sales increased 9 percent in the U.S., and were up 11 percent in international markets, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 5 percentage points. Operating income for the quarter was down 34 percent at $28.5 million, primarily due to higher costs, partially offset by higher sales volume.
 
The company's debt-to-total capital ratio of 23.0 percent is in line with the company's capital and investment framework. Consistent with the seasonality of the company's business and its use of working capital, the company's cash and equivalents declined by approximately $795 million during the six months ended June 30, 2005, compared to a decline of approximately $789 million in the prior year period. Additionally, during the second quarter of 2005, the company repurchased 12.9 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $236.5 million. During the second quarter of 2004, the company repurchased 14.2 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $245.8 million.
 
Sales by Business Unit
 
Mattel Brands
 
For the second quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Brands business unit were $563.8 million, a 10 percent increase versus the prior year's second quarter. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 4 percent. Worldwide gross sales of Other Girls Brands, which includes Polly Pocket! and several new brand introductions, including Disney Princesses, Winx Club, Pound Puppies and Furryville, were up double-digits.
 
Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were up 4 percent, primarily driven by higher sales of Hot Wheels. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Games and Puzzles, were up 27 percent for the quarter, primarily driven by higher sales of the Batman property and the Scene It? game, partially offset by sales declines in the Yu-Gi-Oh! and Harry Potter properties.
 
Fisher-Price Brands
 
Second quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price, Little People, Rescue Heroes and Power Wheels brands, were
$337.3 million, a 7 percent increase versus the prior year's second quarter. The increase reflects the strong growth in Fisher-Price Friends worldwide and Core Fisher-Price in international markets.
 
American Girl Brands
 
Second quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products direct to consumers, were $58.8 million, up 20 percent from the prior year, primarily driven by the continued success of the new American Girl Today doll and strong performance of the American Girl retail stores.
 
American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA) Update
 
In the second quarter of 2005, Mattel completed and approved its plan for reinvestment and repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings under AJCA. This plan takes advantage of the company's ability to repatriate approximately $2.4 billion in foreign earnings at a substantially reduced tax cost provided the repatriation occurs before the end of 2005. The AJCA-related tax expense of $112.9 million, or $0.28 per share, has been disclosed since it could be meaningful in evaluating the company's operating results and financial condition for the quarter in light of the nature and magnitude of the expense.
 
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2005 second quarter earnings conference call at 8 a.m. Eastern time (5 a.m. Pacific time) today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Website, . To listen to the live call, logon to the Website at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's Website for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11 a.m. Eastern time (8 a.m. Pacific time) the morning of the call, until Wednesday, July 20, 2005 at midnight Eastern time (9 p.m. Pacific time) and may be accessed by dialing + (719) 457-0820. The passcode is 4559083.
www.mattel.com
 
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of , under the sub-headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
www.mattel.com
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc., (NYSE: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products, including Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever created. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands (www.fisher-price.com), including Little People, Rescue Heroes, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs more than 25,000 people in 42 countries and sells products in more than 150 nations throughout the world. Mattel's vision is: the world's premier toy brands  today and tomorrow.
 
Note: Forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. These include without limitation: the company's dependence on the timely development, manufacture, introduction and customer acceptance of new products; the seasonality of the toy business; customer concentration and pricing; significant changes in buying and payment patterns of major customers, including as a result of bankruptcy and store closures; adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including adverse changes in the retail environment, employment and the stock market; order predictability and supply chain management; the impact of competition, including from private label toys, on revenues and margins; the supply and cost of raw materials (including oil and resin prices), components, employee benefits and various services; the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on reportable income; risks associated with acquisitions and mergers; the possibility of product recalls and related costs; risks associated with foreign operations; negative results of litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters; changes in laws and regulations; possible work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes; possible outbreaks of SARS or other diseases; political developments and the threat or occurrence of war or terrorist acts; the possibility of catastrophic events; the inherent risk of new initiatives; and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the company's public announcements and SEC filings. This release contains forward-looking statements about outlook and challenges for the year, cost pressures, financial performance, the company's debt-to-total capital ratio, capital and investment framework and the expected repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings and the tax effect thereof. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
 
 
WORLDWIDE GROSS SALES INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW DATA (Unaudited)
 


