FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20050128193508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.    Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 31, 2005, Mattel issued a press release regarding its 2004 fourth quarter and full year results of operations, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In its 2004 fourth quarter and full year press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its continuing operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance.
 
Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
 
Item 7.01.    Regulation FD Disclosure and
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)  Financial statements of businesses acquired: None
 
(b)  Pro forma financial information: None
 
(c)  Exhibits:
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 31, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
Full-Year Highlights
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., January 31, 2005  Mattel, Inc. (NYSE:MAT) today reported 2004 fourth quarter and full-year financial results. For the quarter, the company reported net income of $284.3 million, or $0.68 per share, compared to last year's fourth quarter net income of $213.9 million, or $0.49 per share. For the year, the company reported net income of $572.7 million, or $1.35 per share, compared to last year's net income of $537.6 million, or $1.22 per share.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2004, a settlement was reached with the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") regarding the examination of the company's U.S. federal income tax returns for the years 1998 through 2001. The settlement resulted in a non-recurring benefit to net income of approximately $65 million for the fourth quarter and the full year. As previously disclosed in the company's 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K,
 
the examinations of prior years' U.S. federal income tax returns by the IRS are performed regularly in the normal course of business.
 
"Despite a challenging retail environment, we finished the year with improved momentum," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "We made good progress on two of our key goals for 2004 by invigorating the Barbie brand and building on our success in the learning category, as reflected by our increased category share."
 
Financial Overview
 
For the quarter, net sales were $1.85 billion, a 6 percent increase from $1.74 billion last year, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. On a regional basis, fourth quarter gross sales increased 10 percent in the U.S., and were up 3 percent in international markets, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 5 percentage points. Operating income for the quarter was up 3 percent at $314.0 million, primarily due to higher sales volume, partially offset by lower gross margins.
 
For the year, net sales were $5.10 billion, a 3 percent increase from $4.96 billion last year, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. Additionally, beginning in October 2003, the company changed the way it classifies certain close out sales, resulting in a 0.8 percentage point benefit to net sales for full year 2004, when compared to 2003.
 
On a regional basis, full-year gross sales were flat in the U.S., and were up 7 percent in international markets, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 5 percentage points. Operating income for the year was $730.8 million, a decrease of 7 percent compared to the prior year, driven primarily by lower gross margins.
 
The company's debt-to-total capital ratio of 20.6 percent is in line with the company's long-term goal and the company ended the year with more than $1.1 billion of cash, which is consistent with the level on hand at the end of 2003.
 
Sales by Business Unit
 
Mattel Brands Business Unit: Fourth Quarter
 
For the fourth quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Brands business unit were $1.13 billion, a 5 percent increase versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 1 percent. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 1 percent. Worldwide gross sales for
 
the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were up 1 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Games and Puzzles, were up 30 percent for the quarter.
 
Mattel Brands Business Unit: Full Year
 
For the year, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Brands business unit were $3.23 billion, or down 1 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 8 percent. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were down 10 percent for the year.
 
Full year, worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category were up 3 percent. Gains in international sales of Hot Wheels were partially offset by declines in Matchbox worldwide.
 
Full year, worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business were up 22 percent with strong sales growth in Games, related to the success of Scene It and the launch of Juicebox, and continued strength in our male action entertainment properties, including Batman, Megaman and Yu-Gi-Oh!.
 
Fisher-Price Brands Business Unit: Fourth Quarter
 
Fourth quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price, Little People, Rescue Heroes and Power Wheels brands, were $658.5 million, up 10 percent due to strong worldwide sales of core Fisher-Price and Fisher-Price Friends.
 
Fisher-Price Brands Business Unit: Full Year
 
For the year, worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit were $1.92 billion, up 8 percent driven by double-digit sales growth of Fisher-Price Friends and solid sales growth of core Fisher-Price worldwide.
 
American Girl Brands Business Unit: Fourth Quarter
 
Fourth quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products direct to consumers, were $214.4 million, up 7 percent.
 
American Girl Brands Business Unit: Full Year
 
For the full year, gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit were $379.1 million, up 10 percent, primarily due to the continued success of the American Girl Place retail store in New York City and increased sales of The American Girls Collection dolls and accessories related to the first American Girl live-action, made-for-TV movie, which aired in November.
 
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2004 fourth quarter and year-end earnings conference call at 5:30 a.m. Pacific time (8:30 a.m. Eastern time) today. The conference call will be simulcast on the "Investors & Media" section of . To listen to the live call, logon to the Website at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the call may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. To listen to a replay of the call via telephone, dial + (719) 457-0820. The passcode is 989174. The telephonic playback will be available beginning at 8:30 a.m. Pacific time the morning of the call, until Wednesday, Feb. 2 at 9 p.m. Pacific time.
www.mattel.com
 
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of , under the headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
www.mattel.com
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc., (NYSE: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products, including Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever created. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands (www.fisher-price.com), including Little People, Rescue Heroes, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs more than 25,000 people in 42 countries and sells products in more than 150 nations throughout the world. The Mattel vision is to be the world's premier toy brands  today and tomorrow.
 
 
Note: Forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. These include without limitation: the company's dependence on the timely development, manufacture, introduction and customer acceptance of new products; the seasonality of the toy business; customer concentration and pricing; significant changes in buying and payment patterns of major customers, including as a result of bankruptcy and store closures; adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including adverse changes in the retail environment, employment and the stock market; order predictability and supply chain management; the impact of competition, including from private label toys, on revenues and margins; the supply and cost of raw materials (including oil and resin prices), components, employee benefits and various services; the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on reportable income; risks associated with acquisitions and mergers; the possibility of product recalls and related costs; risks associated with foreign operations; negative results of litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters; possible work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes; possible outbreaks of SARS or other diseases; political developments and the threat or occurrence of war or terrorist acts; the possibility of catastrophic events; the inherent risk of new initiatives and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the company's public announcements and SEC filings. This release contains forward-looking statements about sales momentum, increased category share performance and the company's debt-to-total capital ratio goal. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE GROSS SALES INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited)
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW DATA (Unaudited)
 
 


