FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20050708164545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 6, 2005, certain subsidiaries of Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") entered into a letter agreement with Societe Generale Bank Nederland N.V. dated July 1, 2005 and executed on July 6, 2005 (the "Amendment") amending certain provisions of the Master Agreement (as defined below) relating to a European trade receivables facility.
 
As previously disclosed, Mattel International Holdings B.V., a company incorporated in the Netherlands, Mattel France S.A.S., a company incorporated in France, and Mattel GmbH, a company incorporated in Germany, each of which is a subsidiary of Mattel, entered into a Master Agreement for the Transfer of Receivables dated 30th November, 2001, as subsequently amended (the "Master Agreement"), establishing a Euro 150 million European trade receivables facility, pursuant to which Mattel France S.A.S. and Mattel GmbH may sell trade receivables to a bank, Societe Generale Bank Nederland N.V. Each sale of accounts receivable is recorded on Mattel's consolidated balance sheet at the time of such sale. Under the European trade receivables facility, the outstanding amount of receivables sold may not exceed Euro 60 million from February 1 through July 31 of each year and may not exceed Euro 150 million at all other times.
 
The Amendment revises the definition of "Excess Concentration" in the Master Agreement by adding certain additional calculations with regard to receivables, and it also revises Clause 15.15(a) of the Master Agreement by adding a provision that is specific to the time period from March 1 through May 31 of each year. These revisions are not expected to have a material adverse effect on Mattel's financial condition and results of operations.
 
Societe Generale, an affiliate of Societe Generale Bank Nederland N.V., currently participates as a lender under Mattel's Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2005 (the "domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility") and participates in and is the co-documentation agent of Mattel's $300.0 million domestic receivables sales facility that is a sub-facility of Mattel's domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility. Additionally, Mattel and its subsidiaries have various banking arrangements with Societe Generale and its affiliates in the ordinary course of business.
 
The above description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 99.0 filed herewith.
 
 
 
(a)  Financial statements of businesses acquired: None
 
(b)  Pro forma financial information: None
 
(c)  Exhibits:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 8, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
 
1 Scotts Road
Unit 23-06 Shaw Center
Singapore 0922
 
Mattel France S.A.S.
27-33 rue d'Antony Silic 145
94523 Rungis Cedex
France
 
Mattel GmbH
Postfach 10 20 70
63266 Dreieich
Germany
 
July 1st, 2005
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Master Agreement for the Transfer of Receivables dated 30th November, 2001, as amended, between ourselves as the Bank, Mattel France S.A.S. and Mattel GmbH as the Sellers and Mattel International Holdings B.V. as the Depositor (the "Master Agreement")
 
We refer to the Master Agreement, and terms defined therein shall have the same meaning when used in this letter (unless otherwise defined herein).
 
As described in the renewal letter dated June 14
th
2005 between yourselves and ourselves, the amendment to the Commitment Termination Date was subject to conditions which allow to strengthen the transaction. For further clarification, the amendments to the Master Agreement are as follows:
 
1. Amendment to Clause 1.1 of the Master Agreement :
 
The definition of "Excess Concentration," from the beginning of such definition to the beginning of subclause (A) of such definition, is replaced with the following, provided that the portion of such definition beginning with subclause (A) is retained in its current form:
"Excess Concentration"
 
means, on any Assessment Date, the sum of (a) and (b), where :
 
(a) is, with regard to the Debtor Toys "R" Us, the amount, if any, by which (i) exceeds (ii) where:
 
 
 
(b) is the amount, if any, by which (x) exceeds (y), where
 
(x) is the largest of the following amounts:
 
 
 
 
 
(y) is the Rate of Overcollateralisation multiplied by the Outstanding Amount of Eligible Transferred Receivables;
 
, , that if on such Assessment Date any Debtor referred to in the largest of subclauses (i) through (iv) of subclause (x) is Toys "R" Us, then the Outstanding Amount of Eligible Transferred Receivables standing against Toys "R" Us for purposes of the calculations in subclause (x) shall be reduced by the amount, if any, of subclause (a); and
provided
however
 
, , that in relation to all of the foregoing calculations in this definition of "Excess Concentration":"
provided
further
2. Amendment to Clause 15.15 (a) of the Master Agreement:
 
Clause 15.15 of the Master Agreement ("Program parameters") is hereby modified by replacing subclause 15.15(a) with the following:
 
"(a) On any Assessment Date the three-month rolling average of the Delinquency Rate exceeds (i) from 1st August to 31st December in any year (both dates inclusive), 3 per cent., and (ii) at any other time, 5 per cent., or the three month rolling average of the Default Rate exceeds 8.25 per cent., or the three month rolling average of the Dilution Rate exceeds (i) from 1st July to 31st December in any year (both dates inclusive) 4.5 per cent., (ii) from 1st March to 31st May in any year (both dates inclusive) 10 per cent., and (iii) at any other time, 7 per cent."
 
This amendment shall take effect on the next Settlement Date being the 11th July, 2005.
 
Please confirm your agreement to the matters set out above by countersigning the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us.
 
This letter is governed by Dutch law.
 
Yours faithfully,
 


