FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20050624164732.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On June 20, 2005, certain subsidiaries of Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") entered into a Letter Agreement (as defined below) with Societe Generale Bank Nederland N.V. extending the commitment termination date of a European trade receivables facility.
 
As previously disclosed, in November 2001 Mattel International Holdings B.V., a company incorporated in the Netherlands, Mattel France S.A.S., a company incorporated in France, and Mattel Gmbh, a company incorporated in Germany, each of which is a subsidiary of Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel"), entered into a Euro 150 million European trade receivables facility, pursuant to which Mattel France S.A.S. and Mattel Gmbh may sell trade receivables to a bank, Societe Generale Bank Nederland N.V. Each sale of accounts receivable is recorded on Mattel's consolidated balance sheet at the time of such sale. Under the European trade receivables facility, the outstanding amount of receivables sold may not exceed Euro 60 million from February 1 through July 31 of each year and may not exceed Euro 150 million at all other times.
 
Pursuant to a letter agreement (the "Letter Agreement") between Societe Generale Bank Nederland N.V. and Mattel International Holdings B.V., Mattel France S.A.S. and Mattel GmbH dated June 14, 2005, executed June 20, 2005, and effective June 24, 2005, the commitment termination date for the European trade receivables facility was extended to June 23, 2006.
 
Societe Generale, an affiliate of Societe Generale Bank Nederland N.V., currently participates as a lender under Mattel's Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2005 (the "domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility") and participates in and is the co-documentation agent of Mattel's $300.0 million domestic receivables sales facility that is a sub-facility of Mattel's domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility. Additionally, Mattel and its subsidiaries have various banking arrangements with Societe Generale and its affiliates in the ordinary course of business.
 
The foregoing brief summary of the Letter Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Letter Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 99.0 herewith.
 
 
 
(a)  Financial statements of businesses acquired: None
 
(b)  Pro forma financial information: None
 
(c)  Exhibits:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: June 24, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
 
 
June 14
th
, 2005
 
Dear Sirs
 
Master Agreement for the Transfer of Receivables dated 30th November, 2001 between yourselves as the Bank, Mattel France S.A. and Mattel GmbH as the Sellers and ourselves as the Depositor (the "Master Agreement")
 
We refer to the Master Agreement and terms defined therein shall have the same meaning when used in this letter. You have requested the extension of the Commitment Termination Date pursuant to Clause 2.2(b) of the Master Agreement.
 
We agree to your request, such that the definition of in Clause 1.1 of the Master Agreement shall be amended to read as follows:
Commitment Termination Date
 
"Commitment Termination Date
 
 
means the earliest of the following dates:
 
 
This amendment to the Commitment Termination Date is subject to the following conditions which allow to strengthen the transaction :
 
 
 
This amendment shall take effect on 24th June, 2005.
 
Please confirm your agreement to the matters set out above by countersigning the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us.
 
This letter is governed by Dutch law and is designated a Closing Document.
 
Yours faithfully,
 


