FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20050414193839.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 15, 2005, Mattel issued a press release regarding its first quarter 2005 financial results, a copy of which is furnished at Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In its first quarter 2005 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of income, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: April 15, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
First Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., April 15, 2005  Mattel, Inc. (NYSE: MAT) today reported 2005 first quarter financial results. For the quarter, the company reported net income of $6.5 million, or $0.02 per share, compared to last year's first quarter net income of $9.0 million, or $0.02 per share.
 
"Following last year's encouraging holiday season, our early 2005 results were disappointing," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "We will be adjusting programs for the balance of the year with the goal of continuing to build market share and improving financial performance."
 
Financial Overview
 
For the quarter, net sales were $783.1 million, flat compared to $780.9 million last year, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. On a regional basis, first quarter gross sales decreased 5 percent in the U.S., and were up
MATTEL REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2005 FINANCIAL RESULTS/PAGE 2 2 2 2
 
6 percent in international markets, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 4 percentage points. Operating income for the quarter was down 57 percent at $5.5 million, primarily due to lower gross margin.
 
The company's debt-to-total-capital ratio of 20.2 percent is in line with the company's long- term goal. Consistent with the seasonality of the business, during the quarter the company's cash and equivalents declined by approximately $378 million, compared with a decline of approximately $365 million in last year's first quarter.
 
Sales by Business Unit
 
Mattel Brands
 
For the first quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Brands business unit were $514.4 million, a 3 percent decrease versus the prior year's first quarter. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 15 percent. Worldwide gross sales of Other Girls Brands, which includes Polly Pocket! and several new brand introductions, including Winx Club, Doggie Daycare and Pound Puppies, were up 10 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were down 5 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Games and Puzzles, were up 18 percent for the quarter, primarily driven by higher sales in male-action entertainment properties, including Robots, Batman and Megaman.
 
Fisher-Price Brands
 
First quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price, Little People, Rescue Heroes and Power Wheels brands, were $264.4 million, or flat versus the prior year. This reflects strong growth in Fisher-Price Friends worldwide and Core Fisher-Price internationally, offset by declines in shipments of Core Fisher-Price in the U.S., despite particularly strong performance at retail.
 
American Girl Brands
 
First quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products direct to consumers, were $67.6 million, up 25 percent, driven by the January launch of a new American Girl Today doll and continued strong performance of the American Girl retail stores.
MATTEL REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2005 FINANCIAL RESULTS/PAGE 3 3 3 3
 
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("Jobs Act") Update
 
As previously communicated, the company has been studying whether, or to what extent, the company might repatriate foreign earnings under the Jobs Act. Earlier this week, Mattel completed and approved its plan for repatriation and reinvestment relating to the Jobs Act. Over the course of this year, Mattel expects to repatriate up to approximately $2.4 billion in foreign earnings and estimates that this will result in a tax liability of approximately $180 million, which will be included in the provision for income taxes in the second quarter. The amount of this estimated tax liability is based on existing law and does not include the potentially favorable effects of proposed changes to the law.
 
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2005 first quarter earnings conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time (5:30 a.m. Pacific time) today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Web site, To listen to the live call, logon to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's Web site for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time (8:30 a.m. Pacific time) the morning of the call, until Saturday, April 16 at midnight Eastern time (9 p.m. Pacific time) and may be accessed by dialing + (719) 457-0820. The passcode is 2552645.
www.mattel.com.
 
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of , under the headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
www.mattel.com
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc., (NYSE: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products, including Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever created. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands (www.fisher-price.com), including Little People, Rescue Heroes, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs more than 25,000 people in 42 countries and sells products in more than 150 nations throughout the world. Mattel's vision is: world's premier toy brands  today and tomorrow.
MATTEL REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2005 FINANCIAL RESULTS/PAGE 4 4 4 4
 
Note: Forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. These include without limitation: the company's dependence on the timely development, manufacture, introduction and customer acceptance of new products; the seasonality of the toy business; customer concentration and pricing; significant changes in buying and payment patterns of major customers, including as a result of bankruptcy and store closures; adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including adverse changes in the retail environment, employment and the stock market; order predictability and supply chain management; the impact of competition, including from private label toys, on revenues and margins; the supply and cost of raw materials (including oil and resin prices), components, employee benefits and various services; the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on reportable income; risks associated with acquisitions and mergers; the possibility of product recalls and related costs; risks associated with foreign operations; negative results of litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters; changes in laws and regulations; possible work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes; possible outbreaks of SARS or other diseases; political developments and the threat or occurrence of war or terrorist acts; the possibility of catastrophic events; the inherent risk of new initiatives; and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the company's public announcements and SEC filings. This release contains forward-looking statements about market share, financial performance, the company's debt-to-total capital ratio goal and the expected repatriation of foreign earnings and the tax effect thereof. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
EXHIBIT I
 
MATTEL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited)
 
EXHIBIT II
MATTEL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
WORLDWIDE GROSS SALES INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
EXHIBIT III
MATTEL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW DATA (Unaudited)
 


