FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20060714173521.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 17, 2006, Mattel issued a press release regarding its second quarter 2006 financial results, a copy of which is furnished at Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
In its second quarter 2006 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
In its second quarter 2006 press release, Mattel discloses the impact of certain tax items on reported earnings per share, which may be non-GAAP financial measures. These measures have been disclosed since they could be meaningful in evaluating Mattel's operating results and financial condition for the quarter in light of the nature and magnitude of the amounts. These measures are used by management to analyze the profitability of Mattel's business for the quarter.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 17, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Second Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., July 17, 2006  Mattel, Inc. (NYSE: MAT) today reported 2006 second quarter financial results. For the quarter, the company reported net income of $37.4 million, or $0.10 per share, compared to last year's second quarter net loss of $94.0 million, or $0.23 per share. Net income for the quarter was positively impacted by tax benefits of approximately $6.2 million, or $0.02 per share, primarily relating to an audit settlement with a state tax authority. Last year's net loss was significantly impacted by incremental tax expense of $112.9 million, or $0.28 per share, resulting from the company's decision to repatriate $2.4 billion in unremitted foreign earnings under AJCA.
 
"We are pleased with our second quarter results. As expected, we benefited from our summer entertainment toy lines based on the CARS and Superman movies, as well as the newest American Girl Place in Los Angeles," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "We also experienced the second consecutive quarter of growth in the U.S.
for the Barbie brand. While I am pleased with Barbie's progress thus far, we are still in the process of implementing a variety of enhancements for the brand over the next year."
 
Financial Overview
 
For the quarter, net sales were $957.7 million, up 8 percent compared to $886.8 million last year, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. On a regional basis, second quarter gross sales increased 5 percent in the U.S., and were up 12 percent in international markets, including favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. Operating income for the quarter of $49.9 million increased from $28.5 million in 2005 primarily due to the growth in net sales.
 
The company's debt-to-total-capital ratio was 31.1 percent. In the quarter, the company issued $300 million of senior notes. Due to the normal seasonality of the business, the company's cash and equivalents declined by approximately $373 million during the six months ended June 30, 2006, compared with a decline of approximately $795 million in the prior year period. During the second quarter, the company repurchased 9.4 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $153.3 million.
 
Sales by Business Unit
 
Mattel Girls and Boys Brands
 
For the second quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls and Boys Brands business unit were $609.6 million, up 8 percent versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 1 percent. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were down 1 percent, despite continued growth from the Pixel Chix and Polly Pocket! toy lines. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were down 6 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Games and Puzzles, were up 38 percent for the quarter primarily due to the launch of the CARS and Superman toy lines.
 
Fisher-Price Brands
 
Second quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price, Little People, Rescue Heroes and Power Wheels brands, were $365.7 million, or up 8 percent versus the prior year. This reflects strong growth in Core Fisher-Price and the Power Wheels brand worldwide, as well as strong growth in Fisher-Price Friends in international markets.
American Girl Brands
 
Second quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products direct to consumers, were $61.6 million, up 5 percent versus last year primarily due to sales from the third American Girl Place store, which opened in Los Angeles in April 2006.
 
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2006 second quarter earnings conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time (5:30 a.m. Pacific time) today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Web site, . To listen to the live call, log on to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's Web site for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time (8:30 a.m. Pacific time) the morning of the call, until Tuesday, July 18th at midnight Eastern time (9 p.m. Pacific time) and may be accessed by dialing + (719) 457-0820. The passcode is 6244535.
www.mattel.com
 
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of www.mattel.com, under the sub-headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc., (NYSE: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products, including Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands (www.fisher-price.com), including Little People, Rescue Heroes, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs approximately 26,000 people in 42 countries and sells products in more than 150 nations throughout the world. The Mattel vision is to be the world's premier toy brands  today and tomorrow.
 
 
Note: Forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. These include without
 
 
limitation: the company's dependence on the timely development, manufacture, introduction and customer acceptance of new products; the seasonality of the toy business; customer concentration and pricing; significant changes in buying and payment patterns of major customers, including as a result of bankruptcy and store closures; adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including adverse changes in the retail environment, employment and the stock market; order predictability and supply chain management; the impact of competition, including from private label toys, on revenues and margins; the supply and cost of raw materials (including oil and resin prices), components, employee benefits and various services; the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on reportable income; risks associated with acquisitions and mergers; the possibility of product recalls and related costs; risks associated with foreign operations; negative results of litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters; changes in laws and regulations; possible work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes; possible outbreaks of SARS, bird flu, or other diseases; political developments and the threat or occurrence of war or terrorist acts; the possibility of catastrophic events; the inherent risk of new initiatives; and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the company's public announcements and SEC filings. This release contains a forward-looking statement about enhancements for the Barbie brand over the next year. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE GROSS SALES INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW DATA (Unaudited)
 


