FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20060831142014.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 31, 2006, Mattel, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Federal Trade Commission granted early termination of the waiting period imposed by the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, with respect to the Company's proposed acquisition of Radica Games Limited and that the German Federal Cartel Office terminated the waiting period with respect to the transaction pursuant to the German Act Against Restraints of Competition, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 31, 2006
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., August 31, 2006  Mattel, Inc. (NYSE: MAT) today announced that on August 29, 2006, the Federal Trade Commission granted early termination of the waiting period imposed by the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, with respect to Mattel's proposed acquisition of Radica Games Limited (NASDAQ: RADA), which was previously announced on July 26, 2006. In addition, on August 30, 2006, the German Federal Cartel Office terminated the waiting period with respect to the proposed transaction pursuant to the German Act Against Restraints of Competition. Termination of the waiting periods satisfies one of the conditions for closing the proposed transaction, which is subject to approval of Radica shareholders and other customary closing conditions. It is expected that the transaction will be completed in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Mattel, Inc., (NYSE: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products, including Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands (www.fisher-price.com), including Little People, Rescue Heroes, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs more than 25,000 people in 42 countries and sells products in more than 150 nations throughout the world. Mattel's vision is to be the world's premier toy brands  today and tomorrow.
About Mattel
Note: Forward-looking statements with respect to the completion of the transaction and the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. These include, without limitation: uncertainty as to whether and in what timeframe the transaction will be completed, the failure to obtain the approval of Radica's shareholders; the failure of either party to meet the closing conditions set forth in the definitive agreement; the ability to retain key personnel both before and after the transaction closes; ongoing relations between Radica and its suppliers, customers and other parties; costs and other issues with respect to integrating Radica, its products and its employees into Mattel and achieving expected synergies; dependence on the timely development, manufacture, introduction and customer acceptance of new products; the seasonality of the toy business; customer concentration and pricing; significant changes in buying and payment patterns of major customers, including as a result of bankruptcy and store closures; adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including adverse changes in the retail environment, employment and the stock market; order predictability and supply chain management; the impact of competition, including from private label toys, on revenues and margins; the supply and cost of raw materials (including oil and resin prices), components, employee benefits and various services; the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on reportable income; risks associated with acquisitions and mergers; the possibility of product recalls and related costs; risks associated with foreign operations; negative results of litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters; changes in law and regulations; possible work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes; possible outbreaks of SARS, bird flu or other diseases; political developments and the threat or occurrence of war or terrorist acts; the possibility of catastrophic
events; the inherent risk of new initiatives; and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in public announcements and SEC filings. This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements and any such forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety to the cautionary statements contained in this press release. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.


