FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20060127211747.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 27, 2006, the Board of Directors of Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") decided to increase the size of the Board of Directors and elected Dominic Ng as a new director of Mattel. The Board of Directors specified that its actions will be effective on March 16, 2006; on such date, the Board of Directors will be increased in size from ten to eleven directors and Mr. Ng will join Mattel's Board of Directors.
 
Mr. Ng, 46, has served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of East West Bancorp, Inc. and East West Bank since 1992. Prior to that, Mr. Ng was President of Seyen Investment, Inc. from 1990 to 1992, and prior to that Mr. Ng served for over a decade as a Certified Public Accountant with Deloitte & Touche LLP. Mr. Ng serves on the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, Los Angeles Branch; the Bowers Museum; the California Bankers Association; the Committee of 100; Town Hall  Los Angeles; and the United Way of Greater Los Angeles. Mr. Ng also serves on the Board of Trustees of the Asia Society.
 
It is expected that, after Mr. Ng joins Mattel's Board of Directors, he will also be joining the Audit Committee of Mattel's Board of Directors.
 
 
 
On January 30, 2006, Mattel issued a press release regarding the election of Mr. Ng to Mattel's Board of Directors, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.0 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
(a) Financial statements of businesses acquired: None
 
(b) Pro forma financial information: None
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: January 30, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., January 30, 2006  Mattel, Inc. [NYSE:MAT] today announced that Dominic Ng, chairman, president and chief executive officer of East West Bancorp, Inc., has been elected to the company's Board of Directors effective March 16, 2006.
 
Since 1992, Ng has focused on building East West Bancorp into one of the premier U.S. banking franchises. He designed and led the transformation of East West from a savings and loan association with approximately $600 million in assets  initially serving Los Angeles Chinatown residents  into a full-service commercial bank, with $8 billion in assets and 56 branches in California, Texas and Beijing.
 
"Dominic's leadership and reputation for dynamic international growth are sure to bring great value to Mattel," said Robert A. Eckert, Mattel's chairman and chief executive officer. "I am confident that his capabilities and experience will be significant assets to our team."
 
A native of Hong Kong, Ng came to the U.S. in 1977 and earned his BBA at the University of Houston. Ng spent a decade at Deloitte & Touche, and then went on to become president of Seyen Investment, Inc. before joining East West in 1992. Ng serves on the Board of Directors for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, Los Angeles Branch; the Asia Society; Bowers Museum; California Bankers Association; Committee of 100; Town Hall  Los Angeles; and United Way of Greater Los Angeles.
 
About East West Bancorp, Inc.
 
East West Bancorp (Nasdaq: EWBC) is a publicly owned company with $8 billion in assets. The company's wholly-owned subsidiary, East West Bank, is the second largest independent commercial bank headquartered in Los Angeles. East West Bank serves the community with 56 branches throughout Los Angeles, Orange, Alameda, San Francisco, Santa Clara and San Mateo counties and Houston, Texas, and a Representative Office in Beijing, China. It is also one of the largest financial institutions in the nation focusing on the Chinese-American community.
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc., (NYSE: MAT) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products, including Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced. With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs
more than 25,000 people in 42 countries and sells products in more than 150 nations throughout the world. The Mattel vision is to be the world's premier toy brands  today and tomorrow.
 


