FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20061201135738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 29, 2006, certain subsidiaries of Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") entered into a Letter Agreement (as defined below) with Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V. extending the commitment termination date of a European trade receivables facility.
As previously disclosed, in November 2001 Mattel International Holdings B.V., a company incorporated in the Netherlands, Mattel France, a company incorporated in France, and Mattel GmbH, a company incorporated in Germany, each of which is a subsidiary of Mattel, entered into a Euro 150 million European trade receivables facility, pursuant to which Mattel France and Mattel GmbH may sell trade receivables to a bank, Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V. Each sale of accounts receivable is recorded on Mattel's consolidated balance sheet at the time of such sale. Under the European trade receivables facility, the outstanding amount of receivables sold may not exceed Euro 60 million from February 1 though July 31 of each year and may not exceed Euro 150 million at all other times.
Pursuant to a letter agreement (the "Letter Agreement") between Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V. and Mattel International Holdings B.V., Mattel France and Mattel GmbH dated November 29, 2006, the commitment termination date for the European trade receivable facility was extended until February 28, 2007.
Socit Gnrale, an affiliate of Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V., currently participates as a lender under Mattel's Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2005 (the "domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility") and participates in and is the co-documentation agent of Mattel's $300.0 million domestic receivables sales facility that is a sub-facility of Mattel's domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility. Socit Gnrale also participates as a lender and is the co-documentation agent with regard to a $325.0 million credit facility for Mattel Asia Pacific Sourcing Limited, a subsidiary of Mattel. Additionally, Mattel and its subsidiaries have various banking arrangements with Socit Gnrale and its affiliates in the ordinary course of business.
The foregoing brief summary of the Letter Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Letter Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 99.0 herewith.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: December 1, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
4
th
Floor
34 Boon Leat Terrace
Singapore 119866
Mattel France
27-33 rue d'Antony
Silic 145
94523 Rungis Cedex
France
Mattel GmbH
An der Trift 75
63303 Dreieich
Germany
 
Amstelplein 1
1096 HA Amsterdam
The Netherlands
Attention: Niek Volkers
29 November 2006
Dear Sir,
We refer to the Master Agreement for the Transfer of Receivables dated 30 November 2001 between Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V. as the Bank, Mattel International Holdings B.V. as the Depositor and Mattel France and Mattel GmbH as the Sellers, as subsequently amended from time to time (the ).
Master Agreement
Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Master Agreement shall have the same meaning when used in this letter.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 2.2 of the Master Agreement we hereby request that the Commitment Termination Date be extended until 28 February 2007.
Upon your agreement to this letter, we hereby confirm that the Master Additional Deposit Agreement and the Master Subordinated Deposit Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until the Agreement Expiry Date, as such date is extended in accordance with the extension of the Commitment Termination Date.
Each of Mattel International Holdings B.V., Mattel France and Mattel GmbH hereby represents and warrants to Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V. that it has the power to enter into and perform, and has taken all necessary action to authorise the entry into, performance and delivery of this letter.
 
Mattel GmbH hereby further represents and warrants to Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V. that no bylaws ("") as mentioned in Clause 5.4 of its articles of association have been entered into.
Geschftsordnung der Gesellschafterversammlung
This letter is made in 4 original copies and shall be governed by Dutch law. The provisions of Clause 34 (Jurisdiction and Waiver of Immunity) of the Master Agreement shall apply mutatis mutandis to this letter.
Yours sincerely,
 
/s/ Bruno Bouldoire
Mattel France
By: Bruno Bouldoire
/s/ Frank Mueller
Mattel GmbH
By: Frank Mueller
We hereby agree to the above, as a result the Commitment Termination Date shall be extended until 28 February 2007.
/s/ Jerome Farges
Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V.
By: Jerome Farges
 


