FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20060512161006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forms of Grant Agreements Pursuant to the Mattel, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan.
On May 11, 2006, pursuant to the Mattel, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "2005 Plan"), Annual Grants (as defined in the 2005 Plan) of non-qualified stock options ("NQSOs") and restricted stock units ("RSUs") with dividend equivalent rights were made to non-employee directors of Mattel. The form of grant agreement used with regard to the Annual Grants of NQSOs, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1, provides for vesting of the NQSOs at the rate of 33%, 33% and 34%, respectively, on the first, second and third anniversaries of the grant date, except in the case of the holder's severance, in which case special provisions apply depending upon the nature of the severance. The form of grant agreement used for the Annual Grants of RSUs with dividend equivalent rights, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2, provides for vesting of 50% of such RSUs on the second anniversary of the date of grant and 50% of such RSUs on the third anniversary of the date of grant, except in the case of the holder's severance, in which case special provisions apply depending upon the nature of the severance. Pursuant to the dividend equivalent rights, if Mattel pays a cash dividend or distribution with respect to its common stock, the holder of any such RSUs that are outstanding on the record date for such cash dividend or distribution will receive an amount in cash equal to the amount the holder would have received if the RSUs had been actual shares of Mattel common stock outstanding on such date. This summary description of provisions of the above-referenced grant agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2.
Forms of Amendments to 2005 Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreements.
On May 10, 2006, Mattel adopted forms of amendments to grant agreements that were used in 2005 to make grants of RSUs with dividend equivalent rights. Such 2005 RSU grants included Annual Grants on May 19, 2005 to non-employee directors of Mattel and a grant on October 18, 2005 to Neil B. Friedman, President, Mattel Brands. The amendments provide that, with respect to future cash dividends or distributions that Mattel may pay on its common stock, the holder of any such RSUs that are outstanding on the record date for such cash dividend or distribution will receive an amount in cash equal to the amount the holder would have received if the RSUs had been actual shares of Mattel common stock outstanding on such date. The amendments also update language relating to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. The provisions of the amendments are effective as of the dates set forth in the forms of amendments. This summary description of provisions of the above-referenced forms of amendments is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibits 99.3 and 99.4.
 
(a) Financial statements of businesses acquired: None
(b) Pro forma financial information: None
(c) Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 12, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
This is a Grant Agreement between Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") and the individual (the "Holder") named in the Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the "Notice") attached hereto as the cover page of this Grant Agreement.
Recitals
Mattel has adopted the 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan") for the granting to selected service providers of awards based upon shares of Common Stock of Mattel. This Grant Agreement is being executed pursuant to Section 13(b) of the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan.
Option
Mattel grants to the Holder a Non-Qualified Stock Option (this "Option") to purchase, on the terms and conditions set forth below in this Grant Agreement, all or any part of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock set forth in the Notice, which shall remain outstanding during the period (the "Term") expiring on the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the grant (the "Grant Date"), as specified in the Notice, unless and to the extent this Option is terminated or forfeited before the end of the Term pursuant to Section 5 below. The per-share exercise price of this Option equals the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Grant Date, and is set forth in the Notice.
1.
.
Terms
Except as otherwise provided in Section 5, this Option shall vest and become exercisable with regard to the following percentages of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock subject to this Option, rounded to the nearest whole number of shares, on the vesting dates set forth below, unless the Holder's Severance has occurred prior to the applicable vesting date:
2.
.
Vesting and Exercisability
 
In order to exercise this Option in whole or in part, the Holder shall follow such procedures as may be established by the Company from time to time. In order for such exercise to be considered effective, the Holder must satisfy the withholding obligations of Section 4 below, if applicable, and make full payment of the exercise price for the shares being purchased in accordance with such methods as the Committee may approve from time to time. As of the Grant Date, the following forms of payment are available:
3.
.
Method of Exercising
 
i. cash;
ii. by the withholding of shares that would otherwise be issued upon the exercise of the Option; and
iii. by the delivery to Mattel or its designated agent of an irrevocable written notice of exercise form together with irrevocable instructions to a broker-dealer to sell or margin a sufficient portion of the shares of Common Stock and to deliver the sale or margin loan proceeds directly to Mattel to pay the exercise price of the Option.
As a condition to exercising this Option in whole or in part, the Holder shall pay, or make provisions satisfactory to the Company for payment of, any income tax, social tax, or other taxes required to be withheld in connection with such exercise, if any, including by delivery of Common Stock and/or the withholding of Common Stock being purchased in the exercise in question, having a Fair Market Value, on the date of exercise, equal to the minimum amount required to be withheld.
4.
.
Withholding
The consequences of the Holder's Severance for this Option shall be as follows:
5.
.
Consequences of Severance
i. in the case of a Severance for Cause, this Option (whether vested or unvested) shall terminate immediately;
ii. in the case of the Holder's Severance at least six months after the Grant Date as a result of either (A) Retirement (including a Retirement that also qualifies as a Disability) or (B) death at a time when the Holder's Severance for any reason other than death or Cause would have qualified as Retirement, this Option shall become fully vested and exercisable immediately, to the extent not previously vested and exercisable, and shall remain exercisable until the earlier of (I) the fifth anniversary of the date of Retirement and (II) the end of the Term;
iii. in the case of the Holder's death (other than as described in clause ii above) or the Holder's Disability that does not also qualify as a Retirement, (A) any portion of this Option that has previously vested shall remain exercisable until the earlier of (I) the first anniversary of the date of Severance and (II) the end of the Term, and (B) any portion of this Option that has not previously vested shall terminate immediately; and
iv. in the case of a Severance for any other reason, (A) any portion of this Option that has previously vested shall remain exercisable until the earlier of (I) the 90th day after the date of the Severance and (II) the end of the Term, and (B) any portion of this Option that has not previously vested shall terminate immediately.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the 90-day period referred to in clause (iv) above shall be extended to a two-year period if the Severance occurs during the 18-month period following a Change in Control.
 
6. Compliance with Law.
i. No shares issuable upon the exercise of this Option shall be issued and delivered unless and until all applicable registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, all applicable listing requirements of any national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed, and all other requirements of law or of any regulatory bodies having jurisdiction over such issuance and delivery, shall have been complied with. In particular, the Committee may require certain investment (or other) representations and undertakings in connection with the issuance of securities in connection with the Plan in order to comply with applicable law.
ii. If any provision of this Grant Agreement is determined to be unenforceable or invalid under any applicable law, such provision will be applied to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, and shall automatically be deemed amended in a manner consistent with its objectives to the extent necessary to conform to any limitations required under applicable law. Furthermore, if any provision of this Grant Agreement is determined to be illegal under any applicable law, such provision shall be null and void to the extent necessary to comply with applicable law, but the other provisions of this Grant Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
This Option shall not be transferable by the Holder, other than upon the death of the Holder, in accordance with such beneficiary designation procedures or other procedures as the Company may prescribe from time to time. This Option shall be exercisable, subject to the terms of the Plan and this Grant Agreement, only by the Holder, the guardian or legal representative of the Holder as provided in Section 9(c) of the Plan, or any person to whom this Option is permissibly transferred pursuant to this Section 7 and Section 15(a) of the Plan, it being understood that the term "Holder" includes such guardian, legal representative and other transferee; provided, that references to employment or other provision of services to the Company (such as the terms "Disability, "Retirement" and "Severance") shall continue to refer to the employment of, or provision of services by, the original Holder named above.
7.
.
Assignability
In the event of certain corporate transactions, this Option shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 16 of the Plan. In the event of a Change in Control, this Option shall be subject to the provisions of Section 17 of the Plan.
8.
.
Certain Corporate Transactions
9. .
No Additional Rights
i. Neither the granting of this Option nor its exercise shall (a) affect or restrict in any way the power of the Company to undertake any corporate action otherwise permitted under applicable law, (b) confer upon the Holder the right to continue performing services for the Company or (c) interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate the services of the Holder at any time, with or without Cause.
ii. The Holder acknowledges that (a) the making of this grant does not mean that the Holder will receive any similar grant or grants in the future, or any future grants at all, and (b) this grant does not in any way entitle the Holder to future grants
 
under the Plan.
iii. Without limiting the generality of subsections i. and ii. immediately above, if the Holder's service to the Company terminates, the Holder shall not be entitled to any compensation for any loss of any right or benefit or prospective right or benefit under this Option or the Plan which he or she might otherwise have enjoyed, whether such compensation is claimed by way of damages for wrongful termination of services or other breach of contract or by way of compensation for loss of office or otherwise.
Neither the Holder nor any other person legally entitled to exercise this Option shall have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by this Option until such shares have been issued to the Holder following the exercise of this Option.
10.
.
Rights as a Stockholder
This Option is subject to, and the Company and the Holder agree to be bound by, all of the terms and conditions of the Plan as it shall be amended from time to time, which are incorporated herein by reference. No amendment to the Plan shall adversely affect this Option without the consent of the Holder. In the case of a conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Option, the terms of the Plan shall govern.
11.
.
Compliance with Plan
By accepting the grant of this Option, the Holder hereby agrees and consents to:
12.
.
Data Privacy Waiver
i. the collection, use, processing and transfer by Mattel and its Subsidiaries (collectively, the "Group") of certain personal information about the Holder (the "Data");
ii. any members of the Group transferring Data amongst themselves for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Plan;
iii. the use of such Data by any such person for such purposes; and
iv. the transfer to and retention of such Data by third parties in connection with such purposes.
For the purposes of clause (i) above, "Data" means the Holder's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, any tax or other identification number, details of all rights to acquire Common Stock granted to the Holder and of Common Stock issued or transferred to the Holder pursuant to the Plan.
The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Option shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
13.
.
Governing Law
 

Exhibit 99.2
This is a Grant Agreement between Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") and the individual (the "Holder") named in the Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (the "Notice") attached hereto as the cover page of this Grant Agreement.
Recitals
Mattel has adopted the 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan") for the granting to selected service providers of awards based upon shares of Common Stock of Mattel. This Grant Agreement is being executed pursuant to Section 13(b) of the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan.
Restricted Stock Units
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to Section 6, upon the applicable Settlement Date (as defined in Section 6) of a vested Unit, the Company shall settle such Unit by delivering to the Holder one share of Common Stock or a cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock as of such Settlement Date (plus interest, if applicable, under Section 6 below), as the Company may in its sole discretion determine (and the Company may settle some Units in Common Stock and some in cash), subject to Section 7 below. In the case of Units settled by delivery of Common Stock, the Company shall (a) issue or cause to be delivered to the Holder (or the Holder's Heir, as defined below, if applicable) one or more unlegended stock certificates representing such shares, or (b) cause a book entry for such shares to be made in the name of the Holder (or the Holder's Heir, if applicable). In the case of the Holder's death, the cash and/or Common Stock to be delivered in settlement of vested Units as described above shall be delivered to the Holder's beneficiary or beneficiaries (as designated in the manner determined by the Committee), or if no beneficiary is so designated or if no beneficiary survives the Holder, then the
 
Holder's administrator, executor, personal representative, or other person to whom the Units are transferred by means of the Holder's will or the laws of descent and distribution (such beneficiary, beneficiaries or other person(s), the "Holder's Heir").
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of clause (i) above, "Data" means the Holder's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, any tax or other identification number, details of all rights to acquire Common Stock granted to the Holder and of Common Stock issued or transferred to the Holder pursuant to the Plan.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
This Amendment to Grant Agreement for Restricted Stock Units under the Mattel, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (this "Amendment") is made as of May 10, 2006 between Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") and the undersigned Holder.
WHEREAS, on May 19, 2005, Mattel made a grant of restricted stock units to the undersigned Holder, pursuant to a Grant Agreement for Restricted Stock Units under the Mattel, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Grant Agreement"); and
WHEREAS, the Grant Agreement provided for Dividend Equivalent rights; and
WHEREAS, Mattel and the Holder wish to change the provision in the Grant Agreement regarding Dividend Equivalent rights; and
WHEREAS, Mattel and the Holder wish to amend the provision in the Grant Agreement regarding Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, to reflect guidance regarding that law that has been published by the Internal Revenue Service since the original grant was made;
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, Mattel and the undersigned Holder each agree as follows:
1. Capitalized terms used and not defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Grant Agreement.
2. Section 2 of the Grant Agreement is hereby replaced, in its entirety, with the following, effective as of, and with respect to all dividends payable on or after, January 1, 2007. (The provisions of Section 2 as in effect before this Amendment shall continue to apply with respect to dividends payable before January 1, 2007.)
. The Units are granted with Dividend Equivalent rights, as set forth in this Section 2. As of the payment date for any cash dividend or distribution with respect to the Common Stock with a record date on or after the Grant Date and before all of the Units are settled or forfeited as set forth below, the Holder shall receive a cash payment with respect to the outstanding Units held by the Holder that have not yet been settled or forfeited on such record date (the "Then-Outstanding Units"), in an amount equal to the cash
2.
Dividend Equivalent Rights
dividend or distribution that would have been paid or distributed to the Holder had the Then-Outstanding Units been actual shares of Common Stock outstanding on the applicable record date; provided, that the Committee shall determine whether a payment shall be made with respect to a dividend or distribution made in connection with an event described in Section 16 of the Plan (whether or not an adjustment under Section 16 of the Plan is made to the Units in connection with that event), and the amount of any such payment; and the Committee shall determine whether a payment shall be made with respect to a dividend or distribution with respect to the Common Stock in the form of Common Stock or other property other than cash, and the amount of any such payment.
3. The first clause of Section 5 of the Grant Agreement, reading "Subject to the final sentence of Section 6," is hereby amended to read "Subject to Section 6," effective as of May 10, 2006.
4. Section 6 of the Grant Agreement is hereby replaced, in its entirety, with the following, effective as of May 10, 2006.
. In view of uncertainty surrounding the recently enacted Section 409A of the Code, the Company believes that the Units may constitute "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, and it is the intention and belief of Mattel that the Units comply in all respects with Section 409A of the Code. If Mattel determines after the Grant Date that an amendment to this Grant Agreement is necessary or advisable to ensure the foregoing, it may make such amendment, effective as of the Grant Date or at any later date, without the consent of the Holder. Consistent with the aim of compliance with Section 409A to the extent applicable:
6.
Code Section 409A
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Mattel and the undersigned Holder have executed this Amendment, which shall be effective as of the dates set forth above.
 
 

Exhibit 99.4
This Amendment to Grant Agreement for Restricted Stock Units under the Mattel, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (this "Amendment") is made as of May 10, 2006 (the "Effective Date of this Amendment") between Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") and the undersigned Holder.
WHEREAS, on October 18, 2005, Mattel made a grant of restricted stock units to the undersigned Holder, pursuant to a Grant Agreement for Restricted Stock Units under the Mattel, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Grant Agreement"); and
WHEREAS, the Grant Agreement provided for Dividend Equivalent rights; and
WHEREAS, Mattel and the Holder wish to change the provision in the Grant Agreement regarding Dividend Equivalent rights; and
WHEREAS, Mattel and the Holder wish to amend the provision in the Grant Agreement regarding Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, to reflect guidance regarding that law that has been published by the Internal Revenue Service since the original grant was made;
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, Mattel and the undersigned Holder each agree as follows:
1. Capitalized terms used and not defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Grant Agreement.
2. Section 2 of the Grant Agreement is hereby replaced, in its entirety, with the following, effective as of, and with respect to all dividends payable on or after, the Effective Date of this Amendment. (The provisions of Section 2 as in effect before this Amendment shall continue to apply with respect to dividends payable before the Effective Date of this Amendment.)
. The Units are granted with Dividend Equivalent rights, as set forth in this Section 2. As of the payment date for any cash dividend or distribution with respect to the Common Stock with a record date on or after the Grant Date and before all of the Units are settled or forfeited as set forth below, the Holder shall receive a cash payment with respect to the outstanding Units held by the Holder that have not yet been settled or forfeited on
2.
Dividend Equivalent Rights
such record date (the "Then-Outstanding Units"), in an amount equal to the cash dividend or distribution that would have been paid or distributed to the Holder had the Then-Outstanding Units been actual shares of Common Stock outstanding on the applicable record date; provided, that the Committee shall determine whether a payment shall be made with respect to a dividend or distribution made in connection with an event described in Section 16 of the Plan (whether or not an adjustment under Section 16 of the Plan is made to the Units in connection with that event), and the amount of any such payment; and the Committee shall determine whether a payment shall be made with respect to a dividend or distribution with respect to the Common Stock in the form of Common Stock or other property other than cash, and the amount of any such payment.
3. Section 16 of the Grant Agreement is hereby replaced, in its entirety, with the following, effective as of the Effective Date of this Amendment.
. The Company believes that the Units do not constitute "deferred compensation" within the meaning of recently enacted Section 409A of the Code. In view of uncertainty surrounding Section 409A of the Code, however, if Mattel determines after the Grant Date that an amendment to this Grant Agreement is necessary or advisable to ensure that the Units will not be subject to Section 409A, or alternatively to ensure that they comply with Section 409A, it may make such amendment, effective as of the Grant Date or at any later date, without the consent of the Holder.
16.
Code Section 409A
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Mattel and the undersigned Holder have executed this Amendment, which shall be effective as of the Effective Date of this Amendment.
 
 


