FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20060317151922.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance Goals for 2006 under the 2002 Mattel Incentive Plan.
On March 15, 2006, the Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors of Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") established performance goals for 2006 under the 2002 Mattel Incentive Plan (the "MIP").
Certain employees of Mattel and its subsidiaries are eligible for annual cash incentive compensation under the MIP. The performance objectives used to determine payments under the MIP may be based on one or more of a variety of different financial business criteria with respect to (1) Mattel, (2) Mattel's worldwide operations, regional operations, country specific operations and/or subsidiaries, business units, affiliates, corporations, divisions, groups, functions or employees and/or (3) Mattel's brands, groups of brands or specific brands. In the first quarter of each year, Mattel's Compensation Committee establishes the performance goals that must be achieved for that year in order for annual incentive payments to be made. The performance goals for named executive officers are based on objective formulae or standards, as required to qualify for the exception from Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) for performance-based compensation. For other employees, the Compensation Committee has the discretion to establish performance goals based on other standards, including individual performance goals, business and personal contributions and management discretion.
On March 15, 2006, the Compensation Committee established performance goals and formulae for the year 2006 under the MIP. These goals and formulae were based on the following criteria for the following named executive officers: (a) the overall corporate financial performance of Mattel and achievement of objectively measurable strategic initiatives, for each of the following officers: Robert A. Eckert, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Kevin M. Farr, Chief Financial Officer; and Thomas A. Debrowski, Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations; (b) the overall corporate financial performance of Mattel, the financial performance of the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands and Fisher-Price Brands business units and achievement of objectively measurable strategic initiatives, for Neil B. Friedman, President, Mattel Brands; and (c) the overall corporate financial performance of Mattel, the financial performance of the International division and the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands and Fisher-Price Brands business units and achievement of objectively measurable strategic initiatives, for Bryan G. Stockton, Executive Vice President, International. The performance goals with respect to the overall corporate financial performance of Mattel are based upon net operating profit after taxes less a capital charge. The performance goals with regard to the financial performance of each of the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands and Fisher-Price Brands business units are based on the business unit's U.S. operating profit less an inventory charge and the business unit's international operating profit at planned overhead less an inventory charge. The performance goals with regard to the financial performance of the International division are based on international operating profit less a working capital charge. The specific numbers used with regard to these performance goals are highly sensitive and confidential. With regard to the objectively measurable strategic initiatives, which are highly sensitive and confidential in nature, the Compensation Committee established precise measures and determined the relative weight given to each measure, and the Compensation Committee established rules as to how many of the precise measures needed to be achieved in order to reach threshold, target and maximum levels.
 
At the time they were set, all of the 2006 performance goals were substantially uncertain to be achieved. The goals were set at threshold, target and maximum levels. For 2006, the maximum amounts that named executive officers are eligible to receive under the MIP range from 90% to 200% of base salary.
In determining the performance goals and award levels for each named executive officer for 2006 under the MIP, the Compensation Committee reviewed competitive data regarding annual incentive levels, relied upon the advice of the Compensation Committee's independent compensation consultant and exercised its business judgment.
Forms of Grant Agreements Pursuant to the Mattel, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan.
At its meeting on March 15, 2006, the Compensation Committee approved forms of grant agreements pursuant to the Mattel, Inc. 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "2005 Plan") for Initial Grants (as defined in the 2005 Plan) to non-employee directors of non-qualified stock options ("NQSOs") and restricted stock units ("RSUs") with dividend equivalent rights. The form of grant agreement for Initial Grants of NQSOs, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1, provides for immediate vesting in full of such NQSOs on the date of grant. The form of grant agreement for Initial Grants of RSUs with dividend equivalent rights, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2, provides for vesting of such RSUs on the third anniversary of the date of grant, except in the case of the holder's severance, in which case special provisions apply depending upon the nature of the severance. Pursuant to the dividend equivalent rights, if Mattel pays a cash dividend or distribution with respect to its common stock, the holder of any such RSUs that are outstanding on the record date for such cash dividend or distribution will receive an amount in cash equal to the amount the holder would have received if the RSUs had been actual shares of Mattel common stock outstanding on such date. This summary description of provisions of the above-referenced grant agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 17, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
This is a Grant Agreement between Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") and the individual (the "Holder") named in the Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the "Notice") attached hereto as the cover page of this Grant Agreement.
Recitals
Mattel has adopted the 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan") for the granting to selected service providers of awards based upon shares of Common Stock of Mattel. This Grant Agreement is being executed pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan.
Option
Mattel grants to the Holder a Non-Qualified Stock Option (this "Option") to purchase, on the terms and conditions set forth below in this Grant Agreement, all or any part of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock set forth in the Notice, which shall remain outstanding during the period (the "Term") expiring on the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the grant (the "Grant Date"), as specified in the Notice, unless and to the extent this Option is terminated or forfeited before the end of the Term pursuant to Section 5 below. The per-share exercise price of this Option equals the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Grant Date, and is set forth in the Notice.
1.
.
Terms
This Option is immediately vested and exercisable in full.
2.
.
Vesting and Exercisability
In order to exercise this Option in whole or in part, the Holder shall follow such procedures as may be established by the Company from time to time. In order for such exercise to be considered effective, the Holder must satisfy the withholding obligations of Section 4 below, if applicable, and make full payment of the exercise price for the shares being purchased in accordance with such methods as the Committee may approve from time to time. As of the Grant Date, the following forms of payment are available:
3.
.
Method of Exercising
i. cash;
ii. by the withholding of shares that would otherwise be issued upon the exercise of the Option; and
iii. by the delivery to Mattel or its designated agent of an irrevocable written notice of exercise form together with irrevocable instructions to a broker-dealer to sell or margin a sufficient portion of the shares of Common Stock and to deliver the sale or margin loan proceeds directly to Mattel to pay the exercise price of the Option.
 
As a condition to exercising this Option in whole or in part, the Holder shall pay, or make provisions satisfactory to the Company for payment of, any income tax, social tax, or other taxes required to be withheld in connection with such exercise, if any, including by delivery of Common Stock and/or the withholding of Common Stock being purchased in the exercise in question, having a Fair Market Value, on the date of exercise, equal to the minimum amount required to be withheld.
4.
.
Withholding
The consequences of the Holder's Severance for this Option shall be as follows:
5.
.
Consequences of Severance
i. in the case of a Severance for Cause, this Option shall terminate immediately;
ii. in the case of a Retirement at least six months after the Grant Date, this Option shall remain exercisable until the earlier of (A) the fifth anniversary of the date of Retirement and (B) the end of the Term;
iii. in the case of the Holder's death or Disability, this Option shall remain exercisable until the earlier of (I) the first anniversary of the date of Severance and (II) the end of the Term; and
iv. in the case of a Severance for any other reason, (A) this Option shall remain exercisable until the earlier of (I) the 90th day after the date of the Severance and (II) the end of the Term.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the 90-day period referred to in clause (iv) above shall be extended to a two-year period if the Severance occurs during the 18-month period following a Change in Control.
6.
.
Compliance with Law
i. No shares issuable upon the exercise of this Option shall be issued and delivered unless and until all applicable registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, all applicable listing requirements of any national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed, and all other requirements of law or of any regulatory bodies having jurisdiction over such issuance and delivery, shall have been complied with. In particular, the Committee may require certain investment (or other) representations and undertakings in connection with the issuance of securities in connection with the Plan in order to comply with applicable law.
ii. If any provision of this Grant Agreement is determined to be unenforceable or invalid under any applicable law, such provision will be applied to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, and shall automatically be deemed amended in a manner consistent with its objectives to the extent necessary to conform to any limitations required under applicable law. Furthermore, if any provision of this Grant Agreement is determined to be illegal under any applicable law, such provision shall be null and void to the extent necessary to comply with applicable law, but the other provisions of this Grant Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
 
This Option shall not be transferable by the Holder, other than upon the death of the Holder, in accordance with such beneficiary designation procedures or other procedures as the Company may prescribe from time to time. This Option shall be exercisable, subject to the terms of the Plan and this Grant Agreement, only by the Holder, the guardian or legal representative of the Holder as provided in Section 9(c) of the Plan, or any person to whom this Option is permissibly transferred pursuant to this Section 7 and Section 15(a) of the Plan, it being understood that the term "Holder" includes such guardian, legal representative and other transferee; provided, that references to employment or other provision of services to the Company (such as the terms "Disability, "Retirement" and "Severance") shall continue to refer to the employment of, or provision of services by, the original Holder named above.
7.
.
Assignability
In the event of certain corporate transactions, this Option shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 16 of the Plan. In the event of a Change in Control, this Option shall be subject to the provisions of Section 17 of the Plan.
8.
.
Certain Corporate Transactions
9.
.
No Additional Rights
i. Neither the granting of this Option nor its exercise shall (a) affect or restrict in any way the power of the Company to undertake any corporate action otherwise permitted under applicable law, (b) confer upon the Holder the right to continue performing services for the Company or (c) interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate the services of the Holder at any time, with or without Cause.
ii. The Holder acknowledges that (a) the making of this grant does not mean that the Holder will receive any similar grant or grants in the future, or any future grants at all, and (b) this grant does not in any way entitle the Holder to future grants under the Plan.
iii. Without limiting the generality of subsections i. and ii. immediately above, if the Holder's service to the Company terminates, the Holder shall not be entitled to any compensation for any loss of any right or benefit or prospective right or benefit under this Option or the Plan which he or she might otherwise have enjoyed, whether such compensation is claimed by way of damages for wrongful termination of services or other breach of contract or by way of compensation for loss of office or otherwise.
Neither the Holder nor any other person legally entitled to exercise this Option shall have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by this Option until such shares have been issued to the Holder following the exercise of this Option.
10.
.
Rights as a Stockholder
This Option is subject to, and the Company and the Holder agree to be bound by, all of the terms and conditions of the Plan as it shall be amended from time to time, which are incorporated herein by reference. No amendment to the Plan shall
11.
.
Compliance with Plan
 
adversely affect this Option without the consent of the Holder. In the case of a conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Option, the terms of the Plan shall govern.
By accepting the grant of this Option, the Holder hereby agrees and consents to:
12.
Data Privacy Waiver.
i. the collection, use, processing and transfer by Mattel and its Subsidiaries (collectively, the "Group") of certain personal information about the Holder (the "Data");
ii. any members of the Group transferring Data amongst themselves for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Plan;
iii. the use of such Data by any such person for such purposes; and
iv. the transfer to and retention of such Data by third parties in connection with such purposes.
For the purposes of clause (i) above, "Data" means the Holder's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, any tax or other identification number, details of all rights to acquire Common Stock granted to the Holder and of Common Stock issued or transferred to the Holder pursuant to the Plan.
The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Option shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
13.
.
Governing Law
 

Exhibit 99.2
This is a Grant Agreement between Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") and the individual (the "Holder") named in the Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (the "Notice") attached hereto as the cover page of this Grant Agreement.
Recitals
Mattel has adopted the 2005 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan") for the granting to selected service providers of awards based upon shares of Common Stock of Mattel. This Grant Agreement is being executed pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Plan. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan.
Restricted Stock Units
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the final sentence of Section 6, upon the applicable Settlement Date (as defined in Section 6) of a vested Unit, the Company shall settle such Unit by delivering to the Holder one share of Common Stock or a cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock as of such Settlement Date, as the Company may in its sole discretion determine (and the Company may settle some Units in Common Stock and some in cash), subject to Section 7 below. In the case of Units settled by delivery of Common Stock, the Company shall (a) issue or cause to be delivered to the Holder (or the Holder's Heir, as defined below, if applicable) one or more unlegended stock certificates representing such shares, or (b) cause a book entry for such shares to be made in the name of the Holder (or the Holder's Heir, if applicable). In the case of the Holder's death, the cash and/or Common Stock to be delivered in settlement of vested Units as described above shall be delivered to the Holder's beneficiary or beneficiaries (as designated in the manner determined by the Committee), or if no beneficiary is so designated or if no beneficiary survives the Holder, then the Holder's administrator, executor, personal representative, or other person to whom the Units are transferred by means of the Holder's will or the laws of descent and
 
distribution (such beneficiary, beneficiaries or other person(s), the "Holder's Heir").
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of clause (i) above, "Data" means the Holder s name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, any tax or other identification number, details of all rights to acquire Common Stock granted to the Holder and of Common Stock issued or transferred to the Holder pursuant to the Plan.
 
 
 


