FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20060130061134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 30, 2006, Mattel issued a press release regarding its fourth quarter and full year 2005 financial results, a copy of which is furnished at Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In its fourth quarter and full year 2005 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
 
In its fourth quarter and full year 2005 press release, Mattel discloses the impact of certain tax items on reported earnings per share, which may be non-GAAP financial measures. These measures have been disclosed since they could be meaningful in evaluating Mattel's operating results and financial condition for the quarter and full year in light of the nature and magnitude of the amounts. These measures are used by management to analyze the profitability of Mattel's business for the quarter and full year.
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: January 30, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
 
Full-Year Highlights
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., January 30, 2006  Mattel, Inc. (NYSE:MAT) today reported 2005 fourth quarter and full-year financial results. For the quarter, the company reported net income of $279.2 million, or $0.69 per share, compared to last year's fourth quarter net income of $284.3 million, or $0.68 per share. For the year, the company reported net income of $417.0 million, or $1.01 per share, compared to last year's net income of $572.7 million, or $1.35 per share.
Net income for the year was negatively impacted by incremental tax expense of $107.0 million, or $0.26 per share, resulting from the company's decision to repatriate $2.4 billion in previously unremitted foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA). The company recognized expense of $112.9 million in the second quarter in anticipation of the repatriation, and reduced the expense by $5.8 million in the fourth quarter. Net income for the year was positively impacted by $38.6 million of tax benefit, or $0.09 per share, primarily relating to audit settlements with certain tax authorities in both the U.S. and abroad. Net income in 2004 was positively impacted by a $65.1 million tax benefit, or $0.15 per share, related to an audit settlement with the Internal Revenue Service.
 
"As I said throughout the year, 2005 proved to be a challenging year for Mattel as we continued to experience extensive cost pressures and sales declines in the Barbie brand, which offset much of the growth we experienced throughout our portfolio," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "That said, we generated strong cash flow and the balance sheet remained healthy with approximately $1 billion of cash at year-end."
 
Financial Overview
 
For the quarter, net sales were $1.84 billion, or flat with $1.85 billion in sales last year, which included a negative impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. On a regional basis, fourth quarter gross sales decreased 3 percent in the U.S., and were up 3 percent in international markets, which included a negative impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. Operating income for the quarter was up 2 percent at $321.7 million.
 
For the year, net sales were $5.18 billion, a 1 percent increase from $5.10 billion last year, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. On a regional basis, full-year gross sales were down 2 percent in the U.S., and were up 5 percent in international markets, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. Operating income for the year was $664.5 million, a decrease of 9 percent compared to the prior year, driven primarily by lower gross margins and higher selling, general and administrative expenses.
 
The company's debt-to-total capital ratio of 26.1 percent and year-end cash balance of $997.7 million are in line with the company's capital and investment framework. During 2005, the company repurchased 28.9 million shares of its common stock at a cost of approximately $500 million.
Mattel Brands Girls and Boys: Fourth Quarter
 
For the fourth quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Brands Girls and Boys business unit were $1.06 billion, down 6 percent versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 11 percent. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 23 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were down 7 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Games and Puzzles, were down 13 percent for the quarter.
 
Mattel Brands Girls and Boys: Full Year
 
For the year, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Brands Girls and Boys business unit were $3.14 billion, or down 3 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 13 percent. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 25 percent for the year. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category were down 1 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business were flat.
 
Fisher-Price Brands: Fourth Quarter
 
Fourth quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price, Little People, Rescue Heroes and Power Wheels brands, were $694.8 million, up 6 percent due to strong international sales of Core Fisher-Price and worldwide sales of Fisher-Price Friends.
 
Fisher-Price Brands: Full Year
 
For the year, worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit were $2.02 billion, up 5 percent driven by double-digit sales growth of Fisher-Price Friends and solid sales growth of Core Fisher-Price internationally.
 
American Girl Brands: Fourth Quarter
 
Fourth quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products direct to consumers, were $240.6 million, up 12 percent.
 
American Girl Brands: Full Year
 
For the full year, gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit were $436.1 million, up 15 percent, primarily due to strong performance in both the Direct and Retail channels. Increased sales were fueled by the Marisol doll and book from the Just Like You contemporary line, and doll and book products related to the American Girl live-action, made-for-TV movies.
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2005 fourth quarter and year-end earnings conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time (5:30 a.m. Pacific time) today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Web site, www.mattel.com. To listen to the live call, log on to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's Web site for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11 a.m. Eastern time (8 a.m. Pacific time) the morning of the call, until Tuesday, January 31
st
, 2006 at midnight Eastern time (9 p.m. Pacific time) and may be accessed by dialing + (719) 457-0820. The passcode is 5741618.
 
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of www.mattel.com, under the sub-headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc., (NYSE: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products, including Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands (www.fisher-price.com), including Little People, Rescue Heroes, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs more than 25,000 people in 42 countries and sells products in more than 150 nations throughout the world. The Mattel vision is to be the world's premier toy brands  today and tomorrow.
 
 
Note: Forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. These include without limitation: the company's dependence on the timely development, manufacture, introduction and customer acceptance of new products; the seasonality of the toy business; customer concentration and pricing; significant changes in buying and payment patterns of major customers, including as a result of bankruptcy and store closures; adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including adverse changes in the retail environment, employment and the stock market; order predictability and supply chain management; the impact of competition, including from private label toys, on revenues and margins; the supply and cost of raw materials (including oil and resin prices), components, employee benefits and various services; the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on reportable income; risks associated with acquisitions and mergers; the possibility of product recalls and related costs; risks
associated with foreign operations; negative results of litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters; changes in laws and regulations; possible work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes; possible outbreaks of SARS, bird flu, or other diseases; political developments and the threat or occurrence of war or terrorist acts; the possibility of catastrophic events; the inherent risk of new initiatives; and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the company's public announcements and SEC filings. This release contains forward-looking statements about the company's debt-to-total ratio and year-end cash balance in relation to the company's capital and investment framework. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE GROSS SALES INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW DATA (Unaudited)


