FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20070713191146.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 16, 2007, Mattel issued a press release regarding its second quarter 2007 financial results, a copy of which is furnished at Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In its second quarter 2007 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
 
In its second quarter 2007 press release, Mattel discloses the impact of certain items on reported earnings per share, which may be non-GAAP financial measures. These measures have been disclosed since they could be meaningful in evaluating Mattel's operating results and financial condition for the quarter in light of the nature and magnitude of the amounts. These measures are used by management to analyze the profitability of Mattel's business for the quarter.
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: July 16, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Second Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., July 16, 2007  Mattel, Inc. (NYSE: MAT) today reported 2007 second quarter financial results. For the quarter, the company reported net income of $43.1 million, or $0.11 per share, compared to last year's second quarter net income of $37.4 million, or $0.10 per share. Last year's quarterly net income was positively impacted by tax benefits of approximately $6.2 million, or $0.02 per share, primarily relating to an audit settlement with a state tax authority.
 
"Overall we had a good quarter, especially given the comparisons with strong sales from movie-related toys in last year's second quarter," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "While the first half is not particularly significant to the highly seasonal toy industry, our positive results continue to reflect the benefits of our diversified portfolio of global brands."
 
Financial Overview
 
For the quarter, net sales were $1.02 billion, up 7 percent compared to $957.7 million last year, including favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 3 percentage points. On a regional basis, second quarter gross sales decreased 3 percent in the U.S. and increased 18 percent in international markets, including favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 7 percentage points. Operating income for the quarter was $63.5 million, compared to prior year's operating income for the quarter of $49.9 million.
 
The company's debt-to-total-capital ratio of 18.8 percent is in line with the company's capital and investment framework. Consistent with the seasonality of the business, during the first half the company's cash and equivalents declined by approximately $463 million, compared with a decline of approximately $373 million in the first half of 2006.
 
Sales by Business Unit
 
Mattel Girls and Boys Brands
 
For the quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands business unit were $638.4 million, up 5 percent versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were up 6 percent, with increases in international markets more than offsetting declines in the U.S. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were down 1 percent. Worldwide gross sales for Wheels, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were up 20 percent, led by double-digit growth in the Hot Wheels and Matchbox lines. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Radica and Games and Puzzles, declined 2 percent.
 
Fisher-Price Brands
 
Second quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price Core, Fisher-Price Friends and the Power Wheels brand, were $410.4 million, up 12 percent versus the prior year. This reflects continued strong growth in Core Fisher-Price worldwide.
 
American Girl Brands
 
Second quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products directly to consumers, were $55.8 million, down 10 percent versus last year.
 
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2007 second quarter earnings conference call today at 8:30 a.m. (Eastern), 5:30 a.m. (Pacific). The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Web site, www.mattel.com. To listen to the live call, log on to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's Web site for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time (8:30 a.m. Pacific time) the morning of the call, until Tuesday, July 17 at midnight Eastern time (9 p.m. Pacific time) and may be accessed by dialing + (719) 457-0820. The passcode is 4856439.
 
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of www.mattel.com, under the sub-headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc., (NYSE: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radica and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. Mattel is recognized as one of the 100 Most Trustworthy U.S. Companies by  and is ranked among the 100 Best Corporate Citizens by . Committed to ethical manufacturing sustainable business practices, Mattel marks a 10-year milestone in 2007 for its Global Manufacturing Principles. With global headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs more than 30,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations. Mattel's vision is to be the world's premier toy brands  today and tomorrow.
Forbes Magazine
CRO Magazine
 
 
Note: Forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. These include without limitation: the company's dependence on the timely development, manufacture, introduction and customer acceptance of new products; the seasonality of the toy business; customer concentration and pricing; significant changes in buying and payment patterns of major customers, including as a result of bankruptcy and store closures; adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including adverse changes in the retail environment, employment and the stock market; order predictability and supply chain management; the impact of competition (including from sellers of a broad range of play products including video games and consoles, consumer electronics, and retailers' private label products) on revenues and margins; the supply and cost of raw materials (including oil and resin prices), components, employee benefits and various services; the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on reportable income; risks associated with acquisitions and mergers; the possibility of product recalls and related costs; risks associated with foreign operations; negative results of litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters; changes in laws and regulations; possible work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes; possible outbreaks of SARS, bird flu, or other diseases; political developments and the threat or occurrence of war or terrorist acts; the possibility of catastrophic events; the inherent risk of new initiatives; and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the company's public announcements and SEC filings. This release contains forward-looking statements about the effects of our diversified portfolio on our results, and the company's debt-to-total capital ratio in relation to the company's capital and investment framework. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
 
 
WORLDWIDE GROSS SALES INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW DATA (Unaudited)


