FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20070209171935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 9, 2007, certain subsidiaries of Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") entered into a Letter Agreement (as defined below) with Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V. terminating a European trade receivables facility.
As previously disclosed, in November 2001 Mattel International Holdings B.V., a company incorporated in the Netherlands, Mattel France, a company incorporated in France, and Mattel GmbH, a company incorporated in Germany, each of which is a subsidiary of Mattel, entered into a Euro 150 million European trade receivables facility, pursuant to which Mattel France and Mattel GmbH sold trade receivables to a bank, Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V. Each sale of accounts receivable was recorded on Mattel's consolidated balance sheet at the time of such sale. Under the European trade receivables facility, the outstanding amount of receivables sold could not exceed Euro 60 million from February 1 though July 31 of each year and could not exceed Euro 150 million at all other times. The commitment termination date for the European trade receivables facility was February 28, 2007.
Pursuant to a letter agreement (the "Letter Agreement") between Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V. and Mattel International Holdings B.V., Mattel France and Mattel GmbH dated February 9, 2007, the European trade receivable facility was terminated effective on that date. Mattel determined that the European trade receivable facility was no longer necessary based on projected international cash flows and seasonal financing needs.
Socit Gnrale, an affiliate of Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V., currently participates as a lender under Mattel's Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2005 (the "domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility") and participates in and is the co-documentation agent of Mattel's $300.0 million domestic receivables sales facility that is a sub-facility of Mattel's domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility. Socit Gnrale also participates as a lender and is the co-documentation agent with regard to a $325.0 million credit facility for Mattel Asia Pacific Sourcing Limited, a subsidiary of Mattel. Additionally, Mattel and its subsidiaries have various banking arrangements with Socit Gnrale and its affiliates in the ordinary course of business.
The foregoing brief summary of the Letter Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Letter Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 99.0 herewith.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 9, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
 
Attention: Niek Volkers
9 February 2007
Dear Sir,
We refer to the Master Agreement for the Transfer of Receivables dated 30 November 2001 between Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V. as the Bank, Mattel International Holdings B.V. as the Depositor and Mattel France and Mattel GmbH as the Sellers, as subsequently amended from time to time (the ).
Master Agreement
Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Master Agreement shall have the same meaning when used in this letter.
We would like to terminate the Master Agreement and the securitisation transaction contemplated under the Master Agreement.
To that end, each Seller hereby agrees to purchase from you all the Transferred Receivables it has originated and which are outstanding on the date hereof for an amount equal to the face value of all the Transferred Receivables which are currently outstanding (the ).
Retransfer Amount
We therefore hereby request you to:
 
 
 
Upon (a) the signature and delivery to us of the executed French Retransfer Document and German Retransfer Document, (b) the receipt by the Depositor of the repayment amounts set out above of the Additional Deposit and Subordinated Deposit and (c) the receipt by you of the Retransfer Amount, the Agreement Expiry Date shall be deemed to have occurred and consequently the Master Agreement shall be terminated save as for any provision of the Master Agreement, such as provisions of article 28 (c) of the Master Agreement, which is expressly provided to survive the occurrence of the Agreement Expiry Date.
Upon termination of the Master Agreement, the Master Additional Deposit Agreement and the Master Subordinated Deposit Agreement shall also be terminated.
Each of Mattel International Holdings B.V., Mattel France and Mattel GmbH hereby represents and warrants to Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V. that it has the power to enter into and perform, and has taken all necessary action to authorise the entry into, performance and delivery of this letter.
Mattel GmbH hereby further represents and warrants to Socit Gnrale Bank Nederland N.V. that no bylaws ("") as mentioned in Clause 5.4 of its articles of association have been entered into.
Geschftsordnung der Gesellschafterversammlung
This letter is made in 4 original copies and shall be governed by Dutch law. The provisions of Clause 34 (Jurisdiction and Waiver of Immunity) of the Master Agreement shall apply mutatis mutandis to this letter.
Yours sincerely,
 
We acknowledge and agree to the above.
 
 


