FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20080418201117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 21, 2008, Mattel issued a press release regarding its first quarter 2008 financial results, a copy of which is furnished at Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In its first quarter 2008 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: April 21, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
First Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., April 21, 2008  Mattel, Inc. (NYSE: MAT) today reported 2008 first quarter financial results. For the quarter, the company reported a net loss of $46.6 million, or $0.13 per share, compared to last year's first quarter net income of $12.0 million, or $0.03 per share.
"Results were not completely surprising compared to last year's strong first quarter, which benefited from depleted retail inventories and hot properties such as T.M.X. Elmo and CARS," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "Our consumer takeaway, though, outperformed shipments, which is a positive sign for the remainder of the year. We are also excited about the introduction of toy lines based on this summer's most anticipated theatrical releases, including , Batman: , and the American Girl movie: , . Although the first quarter was impacted by higher product costs and legal fees, we expect price increases effective in June to aid profitability in the latter half of the year."
Speed Racer, Kung Fu Panda
The Dark Knight
Kit Kittredge
An American Girl
Financial Overview
For the quarter, net sales were $919.3 million, down 2 percent compared to $940.3 million last year, including favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 5 percentage points. On a regional basis, first quarter gross sales decreased 11 percent in the U.S. and increased 8 percent in international markets, including favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 11 percentage points. Operating loss for the quarter was $36.5 million, compared to prior year's operating income for the quarter of $20.6 million.
 
The company's debt-to-total-capital ratio was 28 percent. Consistent with the seasonality of the business, during the quarter the company's cash and equivalents declined by approximately $276 million, compared with a decline of approximately $221 million in last year's first quarter.
 
Sales by Business Unit
 
Mattel Girls and Boys Brands
 
For the first quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands business unit were $592.8 million, up 5 percent versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were flat, with increases in international markets offsetting declines in the U.S. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 16 percent, driven by High School Musical dolls. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were up 15 percent, led by sales of the new Speed Racer toy line. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Radica and Games and Puzzles, were down 5 percent for the quarter.
 
Fisher-Price Brands
 
First quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price Core, Fisher-Price Friends and Power Wheels brands, were $341.3 million, or down 13 percent versus the prior year, primarily due to declines in Fisher-Price Friends.
 
American Girl Brands
 
First quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products directly to consumers, were $69.1 million, up 10 percent versus last year, driven by sales in the Atlanta and Dallas boutiques which opened in the second half of 2007.
 
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2008 first quarter earnings conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time (5:30 a.m. Pacific time) today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Web site, www.mattel.com. To listen to the live call, log on to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's Web site for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time (8:30 a.m. Pacific time) the morning of the call, until Wednesday, April 23 at 11:30 p.m. Eastern time (8:30 p.m. Pacific time) and may be accessed by dialing + (719) 457-0820. The passcode is 3246404.
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of www.mattel.com, under the sub-headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
About Mattel
Mattel, Inc., (NYSE: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radica and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. Mattel is recognized as one of 2008's "100 Best Companies to Work For" by FORTUNE Magazine and among the 100 Most Trustworthy U.S. Companies by Forbes Magazine. Committed to ethical manufacturing and sustainable business practices, Mattel marked a 10-year milestone in 2007 for its Global Manufacturing Principles. With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs more than 30,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations. Mattel's vision is to be the world's premier toy brands  today and tomorrow.
Note: Forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. These include without limitation: the company's dependence on the timely development, manufacture, introduction and customer acceptance of new products; the seasonality of the toy business; customer concentration and pricing; significant changes in buying and payment patterns of major customers, including as a result of bankruptcy and store closures; adverse changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including adverse changes in the retail environment, employment and the stock market; order predictability and supply chain management; the impact of competition (including from sellers of a broad range of play products including video games and consoles, consumer electronics, and retailers' private label products) on revenues and margins; the supply and cost of raw materials (including oil and resin prices), components, employee benefits and various services; the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on reportable income; risks associated with acquisitions and mergers; risks associated with product recalls, product liability claims and product safety concerns, such as possible reputational harm, reduced sales or increased costs; risks associated with foreign operations; negative results of litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters; changes in laws and regulations; possible work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes; possible outbreaks of SARS, bird flu, or other diseases; political developments and the threat or occurrence of war or terrorist acts; the possibility of catastrophic events; the inherent risk of new initiatives; and other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in the company's public announcements and SEC filings. This release contains forward-looking statements about consumer takeaway relative to shipments, introduction of new toy lines, summer theatrical releases, price increases in June and profitability in the latter half of the year. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
 
WORLDWIDE GROSS SALES INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW DATA (Unaudited)
 


