FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20080910165147.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.   Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On September 5, 2008, the Compensation Committee of the board of directors (the "Board") of Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") approved the Mattel, Inc. Deferred Compensation and PIP Excess Plan (Post-2004) plan document (the "New Executive Deferred Compensation Plan Document") primarily to bring the Mattel, Inc. Deferred Compensation and PIP Excess Plan, as amended (the "Executive Plan"), into compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and other guidance promulgated thereunder ("Section 409A"). Section 409A is the tax law enacted in 2004 governing "nonqualified deferred compensation" arrangements that imposes an additional tax and penalties on service providers (including employees and directors) if a covered arrangement does not comply with Section 409A.
The Executive Plan is a nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plan, which provides specified benefits to a select group of management or highly compensated employees who contribute materially to the continued growth, development, and future business success of Mattel. The New Executive Deferred Compensation Plan Document governs amounts deferred (within the meaning of Section 409A) in taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2005 and includes changes to:
 
 
 
The changes reflected in the New Executive Deferred Compensation Plan Document will not result in any material incremental cost to Mattel. Compensation deferred and vested as of December 31, 2004 will be covered by the version of the Executive Plan in effect on that date.
The foregoing description of the changes reflected in the New Executive Deferred Compensation Plan Document is not a complete description of the changes to the Executive Plan and is qualified by reference to the full text of the New Executive Deferred Compensation Plan Document, which Mattel will file as an exhibit to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired: None
(b) Pro forma financial information: None
(c) Shell company transactions: None
(d) Exhibits: None
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: September 10, 2008
 


