FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20090327163344.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On March 23, 2009, Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") entered into the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "credit facility"), by and among Mattel, as borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, Banc of America Securities LLC, as sole lead arranger and sole book manager, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Plc, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Socit Gnrale, as co-syndication agents, Citicorp USA, Inc., Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. and Merchants & Traders Trust Company, as co-managing agents, and the other financial institutions party thereto.
The credit facility amended and restated Mattel's Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2005, to, among other things, (i) extend the maturity date of the credit facility to March 23, 2012, (ii) reduce aggregate commitments under the credit facility to $880 million, with an "accordion feature," which would allow Mattel to increase the aggregate availability under the credit facility to $1.08 billion under certain circumstances, (iii) add an interest rate floor equal to 30 day LIBOR plus 1.00% for base rate loans under the credit facility, (iv) increase the applicable interest rate margins to a range of 2.00% to 3.00% above the applicable base rate for base rate loans, and 2.5% to 3.5% above the applicable LIBOR rate for Eurodollar rate loans, in each case depending on Mattel's senior unsecured long term debt rating, (v) increase commitment fees to a range of 0.25% to 0.75% of the unused commitments under the credit facility (treating purchases of receivables under the receivables sales facility (described below) as uses of commitments), and (vi) replace the consolidated-debt to capital ratio that Mattel is required to maintain under the credit facility with a consolidated-debt to EBITDA ratio.
On March 23, 2009, in connection with the execution of the credit facility, Mattel executed Amendment No. 3 to First Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement (the "receivables sales facility"), by and among Mattel Factoring, Inc., as transferor, Mattel, as servicer, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other financial institutions party thereto. If receivables are sold under the receivables sales facility, the use of that facility reduces availability under the credit facility. The amendment to the receivables sales facility, among other things, (i) extended the maturity date of the receivables sales facility to March 23, 2012, and (ii) incorporated the credit facility's increased applicable interest rate margins described above.
Bank of America and its affiliates have various banking arrangements with Mattel in the ordinary course of business, for which Bank of America and its affiliates receive customary fees and expenses.
The foregoing summary of the amendments to the credit facility and to the receivables sales facility is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual texts of such agreements, copies of which are filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2, respectively.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 27, 2009
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
Execution Version
                                
 
 
 
Published CUSIP Number:
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES
 
EXHIBITS
 
 
This FOURTH AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT (this "") is dated as of March 23, 2009, and is entered into by and among MATTEL, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), THE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS LISTED ON THE SIGNATURE PAGES HEREOF and each financial institution from time to time party hereto as a lender (individually referred to herein as a "" and collectively as the ""), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the ""), BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC, as sole lead arranger and sole book manager (in such capacity, the ""), The Royal Bank of Scotland, Plc, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Socit Gnrale, as co-syndication agents (in such capacity, the "") and Citicorp USA, Inc., Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. and Merchants & Traders Trust Company, as co-managing agents (in such capacity, the "").
Agreement
Company
Lender
Lenders
Administrative Agent
Arranger
Syndication Agents
Managing Agents
A. The Company, certain of the Lenders (the "") and the Administrative Agent entered into that certain Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2005 (the ""), pursuant to which the Existing Lenders agreed to make certain credit facilities available to the Company in accordance with the terms thereof.
Existing Lenders
Existing Credit Agreement
B. The Company, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent desire to amend and restate the Existing Credit Agreement in its entirety on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
In consideration of the premises and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent agree to amend and restate the Existing Credit Agreement in its entirety as follows:
. In order to facilitate this amendment and restatement and otherwise to effectuate the desires of the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agree:
1.01 Amendment and Restatement
(a) The Company, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereby agree that, on the Closing Date, the terms and provisions of the Existing Credit Agreement shall be and hereby are amended and restated in their entirety by the terms, conditions and provisions of this Agreement, and the terms and provisions of the Existing Credit Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, shall be superseded by this Agreement.
(b) Notwithstanding this amendment and restatement of the Existing Credit Agreement, including anything in this , and of any related "Loan Documents" (as
Section 1.01
 
such term is defined in the Existing Credit Agreement and referred to herein, individually or collectively, as the ""), (i) all Obligations (as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement) outstanding under the Existing Credit Agreement and other Prior Loan Documents (the "") shall continue as Obligations hereunder to the extent not repaid on the Closing Date, and (ii) each of this Agreement and the Notes and any other Loan Document (as defined herein) that is amended and restated in connection with this Agreement is given as a substitution for, and not as a payment of, the indebtedness, liabilities and Existing Obligations of the Company under the Existing Credit Agreement or any other Prior Loan Document and (iii) neither the execution and delivery of such documents nor the consummation of any other transaction contemplated hereunder is intended to constitute a novation of the Existing Credit Agreement or of any of the other Prior Loan Documents or any obligations thereunder. On the Closing Date: (1) all Loans owing by the Company and outstanding under the Existing Credit Agreement shall continue as Loans hereunder and shall constitute advances hereunder, (2) all Base Rate Loans under the Existing Credit Agreement and not converted into Eurodollar Rate Loans shall accrue interest at the Base Rate hereunder, and (3) the Interest Periods for all Eurodollar Rate Loans outstanding under the Existing Credit Agreement shall be terminated, the Company shall pay all accrued interest with respect to such Loans, together with any additional amounts required by of the Existing Credit Agreement (unless waived by the applicable Lender), and the Company shall furnish to the Administrative Agent Loan Notices selecting the interest rates for existing Loans.
Prior Loan Documents
Existing Obligations
Section 3.05
(c) The parties hereby agree that, on the Closing Date, the Commitments shall be as set forth in and the outstanding principal amount of any Loans and portion of any Purchasers' Investment under the Existing Credit Agreement and the Receivables Purchase Agreement shall be reallocated in accordance with such Commitments and the requisite assignments shall be deemed to be made in such amounts by and between the Lenders and the Purchasers and from each Lender to each other Lender and from each Purchaser to each other Purchaser, as applicable, with the same force and effect as if such assignments were evidenced by applicable Assignments and Assumptions (as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement) under the Existing Credit Agreement and the Receivables Purchase Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in of the Existing Credit Agreement or of this Agreement, no other documents or instruments, including any Assignment and Assumption, shall be executed in connection with these assignments (all of which requirements are hereby waived), and such assignments shall be deemed to be made with all applicable representations, warranties and covenants as if evidenced by an Assignment and Assumption. On the Closing Date, the Lenders and Purchasers shall make all necessary cash settlement in full with each other Lender (and with the Existing Lenders under the Existing Credit Agreement whose Commitments thereunder are being terminated) and Purchaser (and with the Purchasers under the Receivables Purchase Agreement whose Purchaser Commitments thereunder are being terminated), respectively, either directly or through the Administrative Agent, as the Administrative Agent may direct or approve, with respect to all assignments, reallocations and other changes in the Commitments (as such term is defined in the Existing Credit Agreement) such that after giving effect to such settlements each Lender's and each Purchaser's Applicable Percentage shall be as set forth on .
Schedule 2.01
Section 10.10
Section 10.06
Schedule 2.01
 
. The following terms used in this Agreement shall have the following meanings:
1.02 Certain Defined Terms
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
"" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify the Company and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" as applied to any Person, means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with, that Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" (including with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as applied to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of that Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
"" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Commitments
"" means this Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as it may hereafter be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified from time to time.
Agreement
"" means Amendment No. 3 to First Amended and Restated Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of the date hereof, by and among Mattel Sales and Fisher-Price, as Sellers, Mattel Factoring, Inc., as Buyer, and the Company, as Servicer and Guarantor.
Amendment No. 3 to Purchase and Sale Agreement
"" means Amendment No. 3 to First Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of the date hereof, by and among Mattel Factoring, Inc., as Transferor, the Company, as Servicer, the Purchasers party thereto and the Administrative Agent.
Amendment No. 3 to Receivables Purchase Agreement
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment at such time. If the commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been terminated pursuant to or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable. Each Lender's Applicable Percentage hereunder shall at all times be equal to its Percentage as a Purchaser under the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
Applicable Percentage
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
 
"" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
 
If the Company has three Debt Ratings, and any or all of such Debt Ratings are at different Pricing Levels, then the Pricing Level applicable to the second highest of the Debt Ratings shall apply. If the Company has only two Debt Ratings, and such Debt Ratings are (i) at the same Pricing Level, then such Pricing Level shall apply, (ii) at Pricing Levels that differ by only one level, then the Pricing Level applicable to the higher of the Debt Ratings shall apply, and (iii) at Pricing Levels that differ by more than one level, then the Pricing Level that is one level lower (with Pricing Level 1 being the highest and Pricing Level 5 being the lowest) than the Pricing Level applicable to the higher Debt Rating shall apply. If the Company has only one Debt Rating, then the Pricing Level applicable to such Debt Rating shall apply. If the Company has no Debt Rating, then Pricing Level 5 shall apply.
Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the Debt Rating(s) specified in the certificate delivered pursuant to . Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in any Debt Rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of delivery by the Company to the Administrative Agent of notice thereof pursuant to and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
Section 4.01(a)(xi)
Section 6.03(c)
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means Banc of America Securities LLC, in its capacity as sole lead arranger and sole book manager.
Arranger
"" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit D
"" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans pursuant to .
Availability Period
Section 2.04
Section 8.02
 
"" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
"" means, for any day, a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1%, (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate," and (c) the Eurodollar Rate plus 1.00%. The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in the Base Rate due to a change in the "prime rate" or the Federal Funds Rate shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change in the "prime rate" or the Federal Funds Rate, respectively. For the purposes of  above, the Eurodollar Rate shall be determined daily and any change shall take effect on the day of such change.
Base Rate
clause (c)
"" means a Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Borrowing
Section 2.01
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, California or in the state where the Administrative Agent's Office is located and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
"" means, as at any date of determination, those assets of a Person that would, in conformity with GAAP, be classified as property, plant or equipment on the balance sheet of that Person.
Capital Assets
"" as applied to any Person, means any lease of any property (whether real, personal or mixed) by that Person as lessee which would, in conformity with GAAP, be required to be accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of that Person other than, in the case of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, any such lease under which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is the lessor.
Capital Lease
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Person or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Person.
Change in Law
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
(a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire (such right, an ""), whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of 33% or more of the equity securities of such Person entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of such Person on a partially-diluted basis (, taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right); or
option right
i.e.
(b) during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of such Person cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in  above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in  and  above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body.
clause (i)
clauses (i)
(ii)
"" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
"" means an amount equal to the sum of (a) the Purchasers' Investments under the Receivables Purchase Agreement (b) the analogous amount under Other Permitted Accounts Receivable Financing Facilities relating to the sales of accounts receivable of Domestic Subsidiaries (without duplication for accounts receivable sold to a Subsidiary of the Company and then sold to a third party purchaser).
Combined Purchasers' Investments
plus
"" means, as to each Lender, (a) its obligation to make Loans to the Company pursuant to and (b) its Purchaser Commitment under the Receivables Purchase Agreement, in an aggregate amount equal to the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto and thereto, as applicable, as such amount may be reduced from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
"" means Mattel, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
"" means a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit C
 
"" means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to (i) Consolidated Net Income for such period before (A) special items, (B) minority interest and (C) gains on reacquisition of debt, in each case for such period, (ii) income taxes accrued for such period, (iii) interest accrued for such period, excluding capitalized interest and without regard to interest income (iv) depreciation and amortization for such period.
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
plus
plus
"" means, at any date of determination, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) all obligations and liabilities, whether current or long-term, for borrowed money, (b) that portion of obligations with respect to Capital Leases which is capitalized on the consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and (c) all guaranties of unconsolidated funded obligations for borrowed money, all determined in conformity with GAAP.
Consolidated Funded Indebtedness
"" for any period, means the net income (or loss) of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis for such period taken as a single accounting period determined in conformity with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Income
"", as applied to any Person, means, without duplication, any direct or indirect liability, contingent or otherwise, of that Person (i) with respect to any indebtedness, lease, dividend or other obligation of another if the primary purpose or intent thereof by the Person incurring the Contingent Obligation is to provide assurance to the obligee of such obligation of another that such obligation of another will be paid or discharged, or that any agreements relating thereto will be complied with, or that the holders of such obligation will be protected (in whole or in part) against loss in respect thereof or (ii) with respect to any letter of credit issued for the account of that Person or as to which that Person is otherwise liable for reimbursement of drawings. Contingent Obligations shall include, without limitation, (a) the direct or indirect guaranty, endorsement (otherwise than for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business), co-making, discounting with recourse or sale with recourse by such Person of the obligation of another and (b) any liability of such Person for the obligations of another through any agreement (contingent or otherwise) (x) to purchase, repurchase or otherwise acquire such obligation or any security therefor, or to provide funds for the payment or discharge of such obligation (whether in the form of loans, advances, stock purchases, capital contributions or otherwise) or (y) to maintain the solvency or any balance sheet item, level of income or financial condition of another, if in the case of any agreement described under  or  of this sentence the primary purpose or intent thereof is as described in the preceding sentence. The amount of any Contingent Obligation shall be equal to the amount of the obligation so guaranteed or otherwise supported. The amount of any Contingent Obligation denominated in a currency other than Dollars shall be equal to the amount in such currency which would be of equal value to the corresponding amount in Dollars of such Contingent Obligation.
Contingent Obligation
subclauses (x)
(y)
"", as applied to any Person, means any provision of any security issued by that Person or of any material written indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, contract, undertaking, agreement or other instrument to which that Person is a party or by which it or any of its properties is bound or to which it or any of its properties is subject.
Contractual Obligation
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P, Moody's or Fitch (collectively, the "") of the Company's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any event or circumstance which, with the giving of notice, the lapse of time, or both, would (if not cured or otherwise remedied during such time) constitute an Event of Default.
Default
"" means an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Rate, if any, applicable to Base Rate Loans (iii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan plus 2% per annum.
Default Rate
plus
plus
provided
however
"" has the meaning specified in .
Defaulting Lender
Section 10.14(b)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Distress Event
Section 10.14(b)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Distressed Person
Section 10.14(b)
"" means lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
"" means a Subsidiary of the Company that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States of America.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under and  (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
"" means all claims, however asserted, by any Governmental Person or other Person alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law, or for release or injury to the environment.
Environmental Claims
"" means all federal, state or local laws, statutes, common law duties, rules, regulations, ordinances and codes, together with all administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Person, in each case relating to environmental, health, safety and land use matters.
Environmental Laws
"" means, at any time, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time and any successor statute, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ERISA
 
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Company within the meaning of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations by the Company or an ERISA Affiliate that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate a Pension Plan under Section 4041(c) of ERISA by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate with the PBGC, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041(c) of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Company or any ERISA Affiliate, if the event described in  through  above results in liability to the Company or an ERISA Affiliate in excess of $125,000,000.
ERISA Event
subsections (a)
(f)
"" means,
Eurodollar Rate
(a) with respect to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurodollar Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period; and
BBA LIBOR
(b) for any interest calculation with respect to a Base Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to (i) BBA LIBOR, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the date of determination (provided that if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day) for Dollar deposits being delivered in the London interbank market for a term of one month commencing that day or (ii) if such published rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to
 
be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the date of determination in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Base Rate Loan being made or maintained by Bank of America and with a term equal to one month would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at the date and time of determination.
"" means a Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to  of the definition of "Eurodollar Rate".
Eurodollar Rate Loan
subsection (a)
"" means any of the events set forth in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
"" means, at any time, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and any successor statute, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Company hereunder, (a) Taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise Taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income Taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the Laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits Taxes imposed by the United States or any similar Tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Company is located, (c) any backup withholding tax that is required by the Internal Revenue Code to be withheld from amounts payable to a Lender that has failed to comply with  of , and (d) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Company under ), any United States withholding tax that (i) is required to be imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender pursuant to the Laws in force at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or (ii) is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to provide a form entitling it to complete exemption from withholding pursuant to  of , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Company with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
clause (A)
Section 3.01(e)(ii)
Section 10.13
clause (B)
Section 3.01(e)(ii)
Section 3.01(a)(ii)
"" has the meaning set forth in Recital A hereto.
Existing Credit Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in Recital A hereto.
Existing Lenders
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
 
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any successor thereof.
Federal Reserve Board
"" means the letter agreement, dated February 17, 2009, among the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Arranger.
Fee Letter
"" means Fisher-Price, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Fisher-Price
"" means Fitch ICBA or any successor thereto.
Fitch
"" means any Lender that is organized under the Laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Company is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States or any foreign government or the government of any state or locality therein, any political subdivision or any governmental, quasi-governmental, judicial, public or statutory instrumentality, authority, body or entity, or other regulatory bureau, authority, body or entity of the United States, any foreign government or any state or locality therein, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Company, the Comptroller of the Currency or the Federal Reserve Board.
Governmental Person
"" means, collectively, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and each co-agent or sub-agent appointed by the Administrative Agent from time to time pursuant to .
Guaranteed Parties
Section 9.05
"" means, individually or collectively as the context may require, Fisher-Price, Mattel Sales and each other Domestic Subsidiary that is a Material Subsidiary of the Company that becomes a Guarantor.
Guarantor
"" means a Guarantor Subordination Agreement substantially in the form of attached hereto, executed and delivered by a Guarantor and one or more of its Affiliates, as required by , as it may hereafter be amended, supplemented, restated, amended and restated or otherwise modified from time to time.
Guarantor Subordination Agreement
Exhibit G
Section 6.10
 
"" means the Second Amended and Restated Continuing Guaranty made by the Guarantors in favor of the Guaranteed Parties, substantially in the form of , as supplemented from time to time by execution and delivery of Guaranty Joinder Agreements pursuant to or otherwise.
Guaranty
Exhibit E
Section 6.12
"" means each Guaranty Joinder Agreement, substantially in the form thereof attached to the Guaranty, executed and delivered by a Subsidiary to the Administrative Agent pursuant to .
Guaranty Joinder Agreement
Section 6.12
"", as applied to any Person, means, without duplication, (i) all indebtedness for borrowed money, (ii) that portion of obligations with respect to Capital Leases which is required to be capitalized on a balance sheet in conformity with GAAP, (iii) notes payable and drafts accepted representing extensions of credit whether or not representing obligations for borrowed money, (iv) any obligation owed for all or any part of the deferred purchase price of property or services which purchase price is (y) due more than twelve months from the date of incurrence of the obligation in respect thereof, or (z) evidenced by a promissory note and (v) all indebtedness secured by any Lien on any property or asset owned or held by that Person regardless of whether the indebtedness secured thereby shall have been assumed by that Person or is non-recourse to the credit of that Person. The amount of any Indebtedness shall be the principal amount of and all interest, premium, if any, and other fees and expenses accrued on any of the foregoing.
Indebtedness
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 10.07
"" means, (a) as to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan, the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
"" means, as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date (x) seven days (a "") or (y) one, two, three or six months thereafter, as applicable, as selected by the Company in its Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
Seven Day Interest Period
provided
(i) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
 
(ii) any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
(iii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended to the date hereof and from time to time hereafter, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Internal Revenue Code
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Person charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Person, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Lender
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Company and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
"" means any lien, mortgage, pledge, security interest, charge or encumbrance of any kind (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, and any lease in the nature thereof, and any agreement to give any kind of security interest).
Lien
"" means this Agreement, each Note, the Guaranty (including each Guaranty Joinder Agreement), each Guarantor Subordination Agreement and the Fee Letter.
Loan Documents
"" means a notice of (a) a Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
"" means, collectively, the Company and the Guarantors.
Loan Parties
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Loans
Section 2.01
"" has the meaning assigned to the term "Margin Stock" in Regulation U of the Federal Reserve Board as in effect from time to time.
Margin Stock
"" means (a) a material adverse effect upon the business, operations, properties, liabilities, assets or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (b) a material impairment of the ability of the Company to perform the Obligations or of the Lenders to enforce the Obligations.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" means Mattel Sales, Fisher-Price or any other Subsidiary of the Company which meets any of the following conditions:
Material Subsidiary
(a) the Company's and its Subsidiaries' investments in, and advances to, the Subsidiary exceed 10 percent of the total assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries consolidated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year (for a proposed business combination to be accounted for as a pooling of interests, this condition is also met when the number of common shares exchanged or to be exchanged by the Company exceeds 10 percent of its total common shares outstanding at the date the combination is initiated); or
(b) the Company and its other Subsidiaries' proportionate share of the total assets (after intercompany eliminations) of the Subsidiary exceeds 10 percent of the total assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries consolidated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year; or
(c) the Company and its other Subsidiaries' equity in the income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles of the Subsidiary exceeds 10 percent of such income of the Company and its Subsidiaries consolidated for the most recently completed fiscal year.
For purpose of meeting the prescribed income test the following guidance should be applied:
(i) When a loss has been incurred by either the Company and its Subsidiaries consolidated or the tested Subsidiary, but not both, the equity in the income or loss of the tested Subsidiary should be excluded from the income of the Company and its Subsidiaries consolidated for purposes of the computation.
(ii) If income of the Company and its Subsidiaries consolidated for the most recent fiscal year is at least 10 percent lower than the average of the income for the last five fiscal years, such average income should be substituted for purposes of the computation. Any loss years should be omitted for purposes of computing average income.
(iii) Where the test involves combined entities, as in the case of determining whether summarized financial data should be presented, entities reporting losses shall not be aggregated with entities reporting income.
"" means Mattel Sales Corp., a California corporation.
Mattel Sales
"" means (a) March 23, 2012, or (b) such earlier date upon which the Commitments are terminated in accordance with the terms hereof. At no time shall the Maturity Date be earlier than the Facility Termination Date under and as defined in the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
Maturity Date
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" means a multiemployer plan (as such term is defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA), which is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is maintained for the employees of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate.
Multiemployer Plan
 
"" means Indebtedness which (a) is not senior to the Obligations, (b) does not have any priority of payment over the Obligations or (c) is not secured by Liens on any of the Company's or any Subsidiary's assets.
Non-Priority Indebtedness
"" means a promissory note of the Company payable to the order of a Lender substantially in the form of hereto, evidencing the Loans made by such Lender to the Company.
Note
Exhibit B
"" means (a) all obligations of every nature of any Loan Party from time to time owed to the Administrative Agent, the Lenders or any other Person required to be indemnified hereunder, or any of them, under any Loan Document, in each case whether direct or indirect and (b) all obligations of every nature of any Seller Party (as defined in the Receivables Purchase Agreement) from time to time owed to the Administrative Agent, the Purchasers or any other Person required to be indemnified thereunder, or any of them, under any Transaction Document, in each case including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
"" means a financing arrangement (other than the Receivables Purchase Agreement and the Purchase and Sale Agreement) entered into in the ordinary course of business under which accounts receivable of any Loan Party or any other Subsidiary are periodically sold directly to third party purchasers, or sold to a Subsidiary of the Company formed for such purpose which in turn sells such accounts receivable to third party purchasers; , , that in connection with any such financing arrangement:
Other Permitted Accounts Receivable Financing Facility
provided
however
(a) there is no recourse to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries on account of the creditworthiness of the obligor on such accounts receivable; and
(b) no negative pledge or Lien is created on any accounts receivables not actually sold or discounted.
"" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
"" means on any date the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Loans after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Loans occurring on such date.
Outstanding Amount
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
 
"" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer plan subject to Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
"" has the meaning set forth in the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
Percentage
"" means any individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, joint venture, trust, bank, trust company, unincorporated association or other entity or a government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" means any employee plan which is subject to Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code and which is maintained for employees of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate of the Company other than a Multiemployer Plan.
Plan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
"" has the meaning specified in .
Public Lender
Section 6.02
"" means the First Amended and Restated Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of March 20, 2002, among the sellers party thereto, the Company, as servicer and guarantor, and Mattel Factoring, Inc., as the buyer thereunder, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to First Amended and Restated Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of March 19, 2004, Amendment No. 2 to First Amended and Restated Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of March 23, 2005, and Amendment No. 3 to Purchase and Sale Agreement, and as it may hereafter be amended, restated, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Purchase and Sale Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
Purchasers
"" means, for each Lender, the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name under "Purchaser Commitment" on , or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party thereto, as such amount may be reduced from time to time in accordance with this Agreement and the Receivables Purchase Agreement. The Purchaser Commitment is part of, and not in addition to, the Commitment of each such Lender.
Purchaser Commitment
Schedule 2.01
"" has the meaning set forth in the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
Purchasers' Investment
"" has the meaning set forth in the Receivables Purchase Agreement and shall be equal to the lesser of the Aggregate Commitments and $300,000,000, as such amount may be reduced pursuant to the Receivables Purchase Agreement. The Purchasers' Investment Limit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Purchasers' Investment Limit
 
"" means the First Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of March 20, 2002, among Mattel Factoring, Inc., as Transferor, the Company, as Servicer, and the Purchasers party thereto, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to First Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of March 19, 2004, Amendment No. 2 to First Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of March 23, 2005, and Amendment No. 3 to Receivables Purchase Agreement, and as it may hereafter be amended, restated, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Receivables Purchase Agreement
"" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
"" has the meaning specified in the federal securities laws.
Registered Public Accounting Firm
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
"" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the Aggregate Commitments have been terminated, Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of all Loans and Purchasers' Investment; that, as set forth in , the Commitment of, and the outstanding principal amount of any Loans and portion of Purchasers' Investment held by any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
provided
Section 10.14
"" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer, any vice president or controller of a Loan Party. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
"" means, at any time, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time, and any successor statute, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Interest Period".
Seven Day Interest Period
"" means any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of stock entitled to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by any Person or one or more of the other Subsidiaries of that Person or a combination thereof.
Subsidiary
 
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings (including backup withholding), assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Person, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" has the meaning set forth in the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
Termination Event
"" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans.
Total Outstandings
"" has the meaning set forth in the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
Transaction Documents
"" means, with respect to a Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan.
Type
"" means the excess (if any) of a Pension Plan's "funding target" (as such term is defined in Section 430 of the Internal Revenue Code), over such Pension Plan's "value of plan assets" (as such term is defined in Section 430 of the Internal Revenue Code), determined as of the valuation date of the most recent actuarial valuation of such Pension Plan in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code for the applicable plan year.
Unfunded Pension Liability
"" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
. With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
1.03 Other Interpretive Provisions
(a) The meanings of defined terms are equally applicable to the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.
(b) (i) The words "," "," "" and "" and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document shall refer to such Loan Document as a whole and not to any particular provision thereof.
herein
hereto
hereof
hereunder
(ii) Section, Exhibit and Schedule references are to the Loan Document in which such reference appears.
(iii) The term "" is by way of example and not limitation.
including
(iv) The term "" includes any and all instruments, documents, agreements, certificates, notices, reports, financial statements and other writings, however evidenced, whether in physical or electronic form.
documents
(c) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ";" the words "" and "" each mean ";" and the word "" means "."
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
(d) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
 
. (a) . All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the financial statements referred to in , as otherwise specifically prescribed herein
1.04 Accounting Terms
Generally
Section 5.08
except
(b) . If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Company or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Company shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Company shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided
that
(c) . All references herein to consolidated financial statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries or to the determination (for financial or accounting purposes) of any amount for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis or any similar reference shall, in each case, be deemed to include each variable interest entity that the Company is required to consolidate pursuant to as if such variable interest entity were a Subsidiary as defined herein.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
FASB Interpretation No. 46  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities: an interpretation of ARB No. 51 (January 2003)
. Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.05 Rounding
. Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, (a) references to organizational documents, agreements (including the Loan Documents) and other contractual instruments shall be deemed to include all subsequent amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications thereto, but only to the extent that such amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications are not prohibited by any Loan Document; and (b) references to any Law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing or interpreting such Law.
1.06 References to Agreements and Laws
. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Pacific time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.07 Times of Day
 
. Each Lender hereby severally agrees, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, (a) to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Company from time to time on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and (b) to purchase receivables on the terms and conditions set forth in the Receivables Purchase Agreement; , , that after giving effect to any Borrowing, (i) the sum of the Total Outstandings the aggregate outstanding amount of Purchasers' Investments shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments; (ii) the aggregate outstanding amount of Purchasers' Investment shall not exceed the Purchasers' Investment Limit; (iii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Loans of any Lender such Lender's Percentage of the aggregate outstanding amount of Purchasers' Investment in its capacity as a Purchaser under the Receivables Purchase Agreement shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment; (iv) each Lender's Percentage of the aggregate outstanding amount of Purchasers' Investments in its capacity as a Purchaser under the Receivables Purchase Agreement shall not exceed its Purchaser Commitment; and (v) each Lender's Applicable Percentage hereunder shall at all times be equal to such Lender's Percentage under, and as defined in, the Receivables Purchase Agreement. Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Company may borrow under this , prepay pursuant to and reborrow pursuant to this . Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
2.01 Loans
Loan
provided
however
plus
plus
Section 2.01
Section 2.03
Section 2.01
.
2.02 Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Loans
(a) Each Borrowing, each conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Company's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than (i) 9:00 a.m. three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Loans, and (ii) 9:00 a.m. on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Company pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $500,000 in excess thereof. Each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $500,000 in excess thereof. Each Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Company is requesting a Borrowing, a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Company fails to specify a Type of Loan in a Loan Notice or if the Company fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any
Section 2.02(a)
 
such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans. If the Company requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any such Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
(b) Following receipt of a Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify (and in any event within two hours of receipt thereof) each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Company, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans described in the preceding . In the case of a Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 11:00 a.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Borrowing, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Company in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Company on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Company.
subsection
Section 4.02
Section 4.01
(c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be made as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e) After giving effect to all Borrowings, all conversions of Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than (i) five Interest Periods that are not Seven Day Interest Periods and (ii) two Seven Day Interest Periods in effect with respect to Loans.
.
2.03 Prepayments
(a) The Company may, upon written notice or telephonic notice confirmed in writing to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such written or telephonic notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 9:00 a.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $3,000,000 or a whole multiple of $500,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in
provided
 
excess thereof or, in each of  and  above, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurodollar Rate Loans are to be repaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender (by telecopy, telex, other electronic means or telephone) of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Company, the Company shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to Except as set forth in , each such prepayment shall be applied to the Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
clause (ii)
(iii)
Section 3.05.
Section 10.14
(b) If for any reason the sum of Total Outstandings the aggregate amount of Purchasers' Investment at any time exceeds the Aggregate Commitments then in effect, then the Company shall immediately prepay Loans in an aggregate amount equal to such excess.
plus
.
2.04 Termination or Reduction of Commitments
(a) The Company may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 9:00 a.m. three Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (iii) the Company shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the sum of the Total Outstandings the aggregate amount of Purchasers' Investment would exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (iv) if, after giving effect to any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments, the Purchasers' Investment Limit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Commitments, such Purchasers' Investment Limit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage. All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
provided
plus
(b) Any reduction or termination of the Purchasers' Investment Limit pursuant to the Receivables Purchase Agreement shall automatically and concurrently reduce the Purchasers' Investment Limit (but not the Aggregate Commitment) for purposes of this Agreement to an amount equal to such Purchasers' Investment Limit, as so reduced, or terminate the Purchasers' Investment Limit, as the case may be.
. The Company shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Loans outstanding on such date.
2.05 Repayment of Loans
 
.
2.06 Interest
(a) Subject to the provisions of  below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate; and (ii) each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate.
subsection (b)
plus
plus
(b) (i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(ii) If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Company under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(iii) Upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, the Company shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(iv) Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
(c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
.
2.07 Fees
(a) . The Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a commitment fee equal to the Applicable Rate the actual daily amount by which the Aggregate Commitments exceed the sum of (i) the Total Outstandings (ii) the aggregate outstanding amount of Purchasers' Investments. The commitment fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period, including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the last day of the Availability Period. The commitment fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
Commitment Fee
times
plus
Article IV
 
(b) . (i) The Company shall pay to the Arranger and the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Lenders or for their own respective accounts, as applicable, fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letter. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
Other Fees
(ii) The Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent such fees as may from time to time be agreed upon between the Company and the Administrative Agent.
. All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans (including Base Rate Loans determined with reference to the Eurodollar Rate as set forth in  of the definition of "Base Rate") shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
2.08 Computation of Interest and Fees
clause (c)
provided
Section 2.10(a)
. The Loans made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Loans made by the Lenders to the Company and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Company hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Company shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
2.09 Evidence of Debt
.
2.10 Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback
(a) . All payments to be made by the Company shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or set-off. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Company hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 11:00 a.m. on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 11:00 a.m. shall be deemed received on the
General
 
next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. Subject to the provisions in the definition of "Interest Period", if any payment to be made by the Company shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
(b) (i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 10:00 a.m. on the date of such Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Company a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Company to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing. If such Lender does not pay such corresponding amount forthwith upon the Administrative Agent's demand therefor, then the Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Company to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent at the interest rate applicable to the Borrowing. If the Company and the applicable Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Company the amount of such interest paid by the Company for such period. Any payment by the Company shall be without prejudice to any claim the Company may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
(ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Company prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Company will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Company has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Company has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders
Payments by Company; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
 
severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender, in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Company with respect to any amount owing under this  shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
subsection (b)
(c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Company by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Borrowing set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
(d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Loan or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
(e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
. If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Loans made by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Loans and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
2.11 Sharing of Payments by Lenders
pro
rata
provided
(i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
(ii) the provisions of this shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by the Company pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of
Section
 
this Agreement or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender pursuant to or as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Company or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this shall apply).
Section 10.14
Section
The Company consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable Law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Company rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Company in the amount of such participation.
.
2.12 Increase in Commitments
(a) . Provided there exists no Default or Termination Event, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lender(s) or potential lender(s) (which such potential lender(s) shall be Eligible Assignees hereunder) which the Company, in consultation with the Administrative Agent, determines to request to make all or a portion of such increase), the Company may from time to time, request an increase in the Aggregate Commitments by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $200,000,000; that (i) any such request for an increase shall be in a minimum amount of $10,000,000, (ii) the Company may increase the Aggregate Commitments no more than ten (10) times, and (iii) the entire amount of such increase shall be applicable only with respect to the Commitments of the Lenders to make Loans and shall not be or result in any increase in the Purchasers' Investment Limit. At the time of sending such notice, the Company (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Lender or potential lender is requested to respond (which shall in no event be less than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of such notice to the Lenders or potential lenders).
Request for Increase
provided
(b) . Each Lender or potential lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within such time period whether or not it agrees to increase its Commitment (, , that no Lender has any obligation to increase its Commitment, and each Lender may grant or withhold its consent to any such increase in its Commitment in accordance with this in its sole discretion) or agrees to participate in such increase, as applicable, and, if so, by what amount. Any Lender or potential lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Commitment.
Lender Elections to Increase
provided
however
Section 2.12
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and each Lender of the Lenders' responses to each request made hereunder. To achieve the full amount of a requested increase and subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), the Company may also invite additional Eligible Assignees to become Lenders pursuant to a joinder agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel. Each such Eligible Assignee that executes a joinder agreement to this Agreement shall also be required to become a Purchaser under the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
Notification by Administrative Agent; Additional Lenders
(d) . If the Aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this , the Administrative Agent and the Company shall determine the
Effective Date and Allocations
Section
 
effective date (the "") and the final allocation of such increase. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company and the Lenders of the final allocation of such increase and the Increase Effective Date.
Increase Effective Date
(e) . As a condition precedent to such increase, the Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of the Company dated as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company certifying that, before and after giving effect to such increase, (A) the representations and warranties contained in (except the representation and warranty contained in ) and the other Loan Documents are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Increase Effective Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date, and (B) no Default or Event of Default exists or shall result from such increase. The Company shall prepay any Loans outstanding on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages arising from any nonratable increase in the Commitments under this Section.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
Article V
Section 5.09
Section 3.05
(f) . Notwithstanding the provisions herein, it shall be a condition precedent to any increase in the Aggregate Commitments under this that there shall be no Yield Periods, Purchase Rate, Purchased Interests, Purchasers' Investments or Yield Reserves (each as defined in the Receivables Purchase Agreement) outstanding under the Receivables Purchase Agreement on the Increase Effective Date.
Conditions under Receivables Purchase Agreement
Section 2.12
(g) . This shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section
Section 2.11
10.01
.
3.01 Taxes
(a) .
Payments Free of Taxes; Obligation to Withhold; Payments on Account of Taxes
(i) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Company hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without deduction or withholding for any Taxes; , , that if applicable Laws require the Company or the Administrative Agent to withhold or deduct any Tax, such Tax shall be withheld or deducted in accordance with such Laws as determined by the Company or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, upon the basis of the information and documentation to be delivered pursuant to  below.
provided
however
subsection (e)
(ii) If the Company or the Administrative Agent shall be required by the Internal Revenue Code to withhold or deduct any Taxes, including both United States Federal backup withholding and withholding taxes, from any payment, then (A) the
 
Company or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, shall withhold or make such deductions as are determined by the Administrative Agent to be required based upon the information and documentation it has received pursuant to  below, (B) the Company or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, shall timely pay the full amount withheld or deducted to the relevant Governmental Person in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code, and (C) to the extent that the withholding or deduction is made on account of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, the sum payable by the Company shall be increased as necessary so that after any required withholding or the making of all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this ) the Administrative Agent or Lender, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such withholding or deduction been made.
subsection (e)
Section
(b) . Without limiting the provisions of  above, the Company shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Person in accordance with applicable Laws.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Company
subsection (a)
(c) .
Tax Indemnifications
(i) Without limiting the provisions of  or  above, the Company shall, and does hereby, indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, and shall make payable in respect thereof within 30 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Person.The Company shall also, and does hereby indemnify the Administrative Agent, and shall make payable in respect thereof within 30 days after demand therefor, for any amount which a Lender for any reason fails to pay indefeasibly to the Administrative Agent as required by  of this subsection; that such indemnity shall not, as to the Administrative Agent, be available to the extent that such amount is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrative Agent. A certificate as to the amount of any such payment or liability delivered to the Company by a Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
subsection (a)
(b)
clause (ii)
provided
(ii) Without limiting the provisions of  or  above, each Lender shall, and does hereby, indemnify the Company and the Administrative Agent, and shall make payable in respect thereof within 30 days after demand therefor, against any and all Taxes and any and all related losses, claims, liabilities, penalties, interest and expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Company or the Administrative Agent) incurred by or asserted against the Company or the Administrative Agent by any Governmental Person as a result of the failure by such
subsection (a)
(b)
 
Lender to deliver, or as a result of the inaccuracy, inadequacy or deficiency of, any documentation required to be delivered by such Lender to the Company or the Administrative Agent pursuant to . Each Lender hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender under this Agreement or any other Loan Document against any amount due to the Administrative Agent under this . The agreements in the  shall survive the resignation and/or replacement of the Administrative Agent, any assignment of rights by, or the replacement of, a Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all other Obligations.
subsection (e)
clause (ii)
clause (ii)
(d) . Upon request of the Company or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, after any payment of Taxes by the Company or by the Administrative Agent to a Governmental Person as provided in this , the Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Administrative Agent shall deliver to the Company, as the case may be, the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Person evidencing such payment, a copy of any return required by Laws to report such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Company or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be.
Evidence of Payments
Section 3.01
(e) .
Status of Lenders; Tax Documentation
(i) Each Lender shall deliver to the Company and to the Administrative Agent, at the time or times prescribed by applicable Laws or when reasonably requested by the Company or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable Laws or by the taxing authorities of any jurisdiction and such other reasonably requested information as will permit the Company or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine (A) whether or not payments made hereunder or under any other Loan Document are subject to Taxes, (B) if applicable, the required rate of withholding or deduction, and (C) such Lender's entitlement to any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable Taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender by the Company pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lender's status for withholding tax purposes in the applicable jurisdiction.
(ii) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if the Company is resident for tax purposes in the United States:
(A) Any Lender that is a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Internal Revenue Code shall deliver to the Company and the Administrative Agent executed originals of IRS Form W-9 or such other documentation or information prescribed by applicable Laws or reasonably requested by the Company or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Company or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements; and
(B) Each Foreign Lender that is entitled under the Internal Revenue
 
Code or any applicable treaty to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Company and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Company or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
(I) executed originals of IRS Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(II) executed originals of IRS Form W-8ECI,
(III) executed originals of IRS Form W-8IMY and all required supporting documentation;
(IV) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Company within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code and (y) executed originals of IRS Form W-8BEN, or
(V) executed originals of any other form prescribed by applicable Laws as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable Laws to permit the Company or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
(iii) Each Lender shall promptly (A) notify the Company and the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any claimed exemption or reduction, and (B) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any jurisdiction that the Company or the Administrative Agent make any withholding or deduction for taxes from amounts payable to such Lender.
(f) . Unless required by applicable Laws, at no time shall the Administrative Agent have any obligation to file for or otherwise pursue on behalf of a Lender, or have any obligation to pay to any Lender, any refund of Taxes withheld or deducted
Treatment of Certain Refunds
 
from the funds paid for the account of such Lender. If the Administrative Agent or any Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Company or with respect to which the Company has paid additional amounts pursuant to this , it shall pay to the Company an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Company under this with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all reasonable and actual out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Person with respect to such refund), that the Company, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Company ( any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Person) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Person. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Company or any other Person.
Section
Section
provided
plus
. If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Person has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Person has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Company through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans or, if such notice relates to the unlawfulness or asserted unlawfulness of charging interest based on the Eurodollar Rate, to make Base Rate Loans as to which the interest rate is determined with reference to the Eurodollar Rate, shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Company that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Company shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender and Base Rate Loans as to which the interest rate is determined with reference to the Eurodollar Rate to Base Rate Loans as to which the rate of interest is not determined with reference to the Eurodollar Rate, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or promptly, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans or Base Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Company shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted. Before giving any notice to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this , the affected Lender shall designate a different Lending Office with respect to its Eurodollar Rate Loans or with respect to determining or charging interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, if such designation will avoid the need for giving such notice or making such demand and will not, in the judgment of the Lender, be illegal or otherwise disadvantageous to the Lender.
3.02 Illegality
Section 3.02
. If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London
3.03 Inability to Determine Rates
 
interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan or in connection with a Base Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Company and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Company may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
.
3.04 Increased Costs; Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Loans
(a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except, in all cases, any reserve requirement contemplated by );
Section 3.04(e)
(ii) subject any Lender to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement or any Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender in respect thereof (except, in all cases, for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender); or
Section 3.01
(iii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender (with a copy of such request to the Administrative Agent), the Company will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered. Each Lender agrees to notify the Company of the occurrence of such an increased cost event promptly after obtaining knowledge thereof.
(b) . If any Lender determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by such Lender to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for
Capital Requirements
 
such Change in Law taking into consideration such Lender's policies with respect to capital adequacy, by an amount which such Lender deems to be material, the Lender shall deliver to the Company a statement of the amount necessary to compensate such Lender for the reduction in the rate of return on its capital attributable to such commitments (the ""). The Lender shall determine the Capital Compensation Amount in good faith, using reasonable attribution and averaging methods. The Lender shall from time to time notify the Company of the amount so determined. As soon as practicable after any Change in Law, each Lender seeking compensation under this Section shall submit to the Company estimates of the Capital Compensation Amounts that would be payable as a function of such Lender's commitments hereunder.
Capital Compensation Amount
(c) . A certificate, in reasonable detail, of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in  or  of this and delivered to the Company shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Company shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 30 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
subsection (a)
(b)
Section
(d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation, that the Company shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than six months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Company of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
Section
provided
Section
(e) . The Company shall pay to each Lender, as long as such Lender shall be required by applicable Laws to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as "Eurocurrency liabilities"), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Rate Loan equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), which shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan, the Company shall have received at least 30 days' prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such additional interest from such Lender. If a Lender fails to give notice 30 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional interest shall be due and payable 30 days from receipt of such notice.
Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Loans
provided
. Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Company shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
3.05 Compensation for Losses
(a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
 
(b) any failure by the Company (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Company; or
(c) any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Company pursuant to ;
Section 10.13
including any loss of anticipated profits and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained. The Company shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Company to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
. If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Company is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Person for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall, as applicable, use its reasonable best efforts (consistent with legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender.
3.06 Mitigation Obligations
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
. All of the Company's obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments, repayment of all other Obligations hereunder and resignation of the Administrative Agent.
3.07 Survival
Article III
. The effectiveness of the Agreement is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
4.01 Conditions to Effectiveness
(a) The Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent and Lenders (or to the Administrative Agent for the Lenders with sufficient originally executed copies for each Lender, except for any Notes):
(i) This Agreement, duly executed and delivered by the Company, the Administrative Agent and all Lenders;
 
(ii) A Note, duly executed and delivered by the Company, drawn to the order of each Lender requesting a Note, with appropriate insertions;
(iii) Amendment No. 3 to Receivables Purchase Agreement, duly executed and delivered by Mattel Factoring, Inc., as transferor, the Company, as servicer, the Administrative Agent and the purchasers party thereto;
(iv) The Guaranty, duly executed and delivered by each of the Guarantors;
(v) Copies of the resolutions of the board of directors or the executive committee of each Loan Party approving and authorizing the execution, delivery and performance by such Loan Party of each Loan Document to which it is a party, certified as of the Closing Date by the secretary or an assistant secretary of such Loan Party;
(vi) Amendment No. 3 to Purchase and Sale Agreement, duly executed and delivered by Mattel Sales and Fisher-Price, as Sellers, Mattel Factoring, Inc., as Buyer, and the Company, as Servicer and Guarantor;
(vii) A certificate of the secretary or assistant secretary of each Loan Party, certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of such Loan Party authorized to execute and deliver the Loan Documents to which it is a party;
(viii) The articles or certificate of incorporation or organization of each Loan Party as in effect on the Closing Date, certified by the secretary of state of the state of its incorporation or formation as of a recent date, and the bylaws or operating agreement of each Loan Party as in effect on the Closing Date, in each case, certified by the secretary or assistant secretary of such Loan Party as of the Closing Date;
(ix) A good standing certificate for each Loan Party from the secretary of state of its state of incorporation or formation dated as of a recent date;
(x) Executed copies of one or more favorable written opinions of a Senior Counsel of the Company and Latham & Watkins LLP, counsel to the Company, dated as of the Closing Date, substantially in the form of hereto relating to the Loan Parties and as to such other matters as the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may reasonably request; and
Exhibit F
(xi) A certificate signed by a Responsible Officer certifying (A) that the conditions specified in and  have been satisfied, (B) that there has been no event or circumstance since the date of the audited financial statements dated December 31, 2008 referred to in , which has had a Material Adverse Effect; and (C) the current ratings on the Company's long-term unsecured Indebtedness by S&P, Moody's and Fitch (to the extent rated).
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
Section 5.08
(b) The Company shall have performed in all material respects all agreements which this Agreement provides shall be performed by it on or before the Closing Date.
 
(c) Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Company shall have paid all actual and reasonable out-of-pocket fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent (directly to such counsel if requested by the Administrative Agent) to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Company and the Administrative Agent).
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of the last paragraph of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.03
Section 4.01
. The obligation of each Lender to honor any Loan Notice (other than a Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
4.02 Conditions to All Loans
(a) The representations and warranties of the Company contained in (except the representation and warranty contained in and, in the case of a borrowing of Loans where the aggregate principal amount of the Loans being made on the date of such Borrowing is less than or equal to the aggregate principal amount of Loans maturing on the date of such Borrowing, the representation and warranty contained in ) or any other Loan Document shall be true, correct and complete in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing, except to the extent that such representations and warranties expressly refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date to the same extent as though made on and as of the date of such Borrowing.
Article V
Section 5.09
Section 5.11
(b) No Default or Event of Default shall exist or shall result from such Borrowing or continuation or conversion.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received a Loan Notice in accordance with the requirements hereof.
Each Loan Notice (other than a Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) submitted by the Company shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and  have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Borrowing.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
 
In order to induce the Lenders and the Administrative Agent to enter into this Agreement and to make any extension of credit hereunder, the Company represents and warrants to each Lender and the Administrative Agent that the following statements are true, correct and complete:
. The Company is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware; and, except for changes in the ordinary course of business or as permitted or contemplated by this Agreement, each of the Material Subsidiaries is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation; and each has all requisite corporate power and authority to own and operate its properties, to carry on its business as now conducted and proposed to be conducted and, in the case of the Company, to enter into this Agreement and each Guarantor Subordination Agreement, to issue the Notes and to carry out the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
5.01 Organization and Powers
. The Company and, except for changes in the ordinary course of business or as permitted or contemplated by this Agreement, each Material Subsidiary is in good standing wherever necessary to carry on its present business and operations, except in jurisdictions in which the failure to be in good standing has or will have no Material Adverse Effect.
5.02 Good Standing
. Except for changes in the ordinary course of business or as permitted or contemplated by this Agreement, hereto correctly sets forth the name, jurisdiction of incorporation and ownership interest of the Company in each of its Material Subsidiaries as of the date hereof.
5.03 Material Subsidiaries
Schedule 5.03
. The execution, delivery and performance of each Loan Document to which it is a party, the acknowledgement of each Guarantor Subordination Agreement and the issuance, delivery and payment of the Notes have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action by the Company.
5.04 Authorization of Borrowing
. The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement, the acknowledgement of each Guarantor Subordination Agreement and the issuance, delivery and payment of the Notes do not and will not (a) violate the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Company, (b) violate any provision of law applicable to the Company, or any material order, judgment or decree of any court or other agency of government binding on the Company, the violation of which would result in a Material Adverse Effect, (c) conflict with, result in a breach of or constitute (with due notice or lapse of time or both) a default under any Contractual Obligation of the Company, (d) result in or require the creation or imposition of any material lien, security interest, charge or encumbrance of any nature whatsoever upon any of its material properties or assets, or (e) require any approval of stockholders or any approval or consent of any Person under any Contractual Obligation of the Company.
5.05 No Conflict
. The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of each Loan Document to which it is a party and each agreement, document, or instrument required hereunder, the acknowledgment of each Guarantor Subordination Agreement and the issuance, delivery and payment of the Notes do not and will not require any registration with, consent or approval of, or notice to, or other action to, with or by, any Federal, state or other governmental authority or regulatory body or other such person.
5.06 Governmental Consents
 
. This Agreement is, and each other Loan Document to which it is a party, when executed and delivered hereunder will be, the legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against it in accordance with their respective terms, except as enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws or equitable principles relating to or limiting creditors' rights generally.
5.07 Binding Obligation
. The Company has heretofore delivered to the Lenders a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, and related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and all other financial statements required to be delivered pursuant to . All such statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP and fairly present the consolidated financial position of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the date thereof and the consolidated results of operations and statement of cash flow of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the period then ended. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has any material Contingent Obligation, liability for taxes or long-term lease which as of the date of this Agreement, individually or in the aggregate, would, if it became absolute, result in a Material Adverse Effect which is not reflected in the financial statements delivered prior to the date hereof or in the notes thereto.
5.08 Financial Condition
Section 6.01
. Since December 31, 2008, there has been no event or events that have, either individually or in the aggregate, resulted in a Material Adverse Effect.
5.09 Changes, Etc
. The Company and its Subsidiaries have good, sufficient and legal title to all the properties and assets reflected in the consolidated balance sheet referred to in except as set forth in said balance sheet or in the notes thereto, except for assets acquired or disposed of in the ordinary course of business or as otherwise permitted by this Agreement since December 31, 2008, and except for immaterial defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.10 Title to Properties
Section 5.08
. Except as set forth on hereto, there is no action, suit, proceeding or arbitration (whether or not purportedly on behalf of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries) at law or in equity or before or by any Federal, state, municipal or other governmental department, commission, board, bureau, agency or instrumentality, domestic or foreign, pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of the Company's or such Subsidiaries' properties which, in the reasonable judgment of the Company and its executive officers (assuming adverse determination of facts which the Company in good faith believes it would not successfully disprove, and considering damages which in their best judgment is the maximum that would be awarded upon, and the likelihood of, an adverse determination of the claim or the amount which reflects their best judgment as to that required to be paid to settle the claims) would result in a Material Adverse Effect and there is no basis known to such executive officers for any such action, suit or proceeding. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is (i) in violation of any applicable Law which could result in a Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) subject to or in default
5.11 Litigation; Adverse Facts
Schedule 5.11
 
with respect to any final judgment, writ, injunction, decree, rule or regulation of any court or Federal, state, municipal or other governmental department, commission, board, bureau, agency or instrumentality, domestic or foreign, which could result in a Material Adverse Effect. There is no action, suit, proceeding or investigation pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries which provides a reasonable basis for questioning the validity or the enforceability of any Loan Document.
. All tax returns and reports of the Company and its Material Subsidiaries required to be filed by any of them have been timely filed, and all taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges upon the Company and its Subsidiaries and upon their respective properties, assets, income and franchises which are due and payable have been paid when due and payable or bonded against, except to the extent permitted by . The Company knows of no proposed tax assessment against it or any of its Subsidiaries that would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
5.12 Payment of Taxes
Section 6.05
. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to or is subject to any material agreement or instrument or charter or other internal restriction which results in a Material Adverse Effect.
5.13 Agreements
. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is in default in the performance, observance or fulfillment of any of the obligations, covenants or conditions contained in any Contractual Obligation of the Company, and no condition exists which, with the giving of notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute such a default, except, in any such case, where the consequences, direct or indirect, of such default or defaults, if any, would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
5.14 Performance
. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is subject to regulation under the Federal Power Act, the Interstate Commerce Act or the Investment Company Act of 1940 or to any Federal or state statute or regulation limiting its ability in any material way to incur Indebtedness for money borrowed.
5.15 Governmental Regulation
.
5.16 Employee Benefit Plans
(a) The Company and each of its ERISA Affiliates is in compliance in all material respects with any applicable provisions of ERISA and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder with respect to all Plans. Each Plan that is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the IRS with respect thereto and, to the best knowledge of the Company, nothing has occurred which would prevent, or cause the loss of, such qualification, except to the extent any failure to obtain or apply for such determination letter, or any such disqualification, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. The Company and each ERISA Affiliate have made all required contributions to each Plan subject to Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code, and no application for a funding waiver pursuant to Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code has been made with respect to any Plan, except to the extent any failure to make such contributions, or any such funding waiver, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(b) There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Person, with respect to any Plan that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(c) (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur; (ii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability in excess of $125,000,000; (iii) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA) in excess of $125,000,000; (iv) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has participated in or participates in any Multiemployer Plan the withdrawal from which would reasonably be expected to result in liability to the Company or an ERISA Affiliate in excess of $125,000,000; and (v) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction subject to Section 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA which would reasonably be expected to result in liability to the Company or an ERISA Affiliate in excess of $125,000,000.
. The Company conducts in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws and existing Environmental Claims on its business, operations and properties, and as a result thereof the Company has reasonably concluded that such Environmental Laws and Environmental Claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.17 Environmental Matters
. No representation or warranty of the Company contained in this Agreement or any other document, certificate or written statement furnished to the Lenders by the Company since December 31, 2008, for use in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as of the date of this Agreement contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact (known to the officers of the Company in the case of any document or fact not furnished by it) necessary in order to make the statements contained herein or therein not misleading except to the extent that any such statement or omission that was untrue or misleading at the time made or that subsequently became untrue or misleading has been superseded or corrected by information provided to the Lenders prior to the date of this Agreement. The projections and pro forma financial information contained in such written materials are based upon good faith estimates and assumptions believed by the Company to be reasonable at the time made, it being recognized by the Lenders that such projections as to future events are not to be viewed as facts and that actual results during the period or periods covered by any such projections may differ from the projected results. There is no fact known to the officers of the Company as of the date of this Agreement (other than matters of a general economic nature) which materially adversely affects the business, operations, property, assets or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, which has not been disclosed herein or in the written materials referred to in other than as disclosed in writing to the Lenders on or before the date hereof.
5.18 Disclosure
Section 5.08
. No Guarantor has any material outstanding Indebtedness to any Affiliate of the Company which has not signed a Guarantor Subordination Agreement, and as of the date hereof, no Guarantor has any outstanding Guarantor Subordination Agreement.
5.19 Subordination Agreements
 
The Company agrees from the Closing Date until payment in full of all Obligations and termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the Receivables Purchase Agreement, unless Required Lenders shall otherwise give prior written consent, the Company will perform all covenants in this :
Article VI
The Company will maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, a system of accounting established and administered in accordance with sound business practices to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. The Company will deliver to the Administrative Agent and to each Lender:
6.01 Financial Statements.
(a) as soon as practicable and in any event not later than 55 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of the Company, consolidated balance sheets of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such period and for the fiscal year to date and the related consolidated statements of income, consolidated statements of stockholders' equity and consolidated statements of cash flow all in reasonable detail and certified by a Responsible Officer of the Company that the consolidated statements (and to the best of his or her belief, the consolidating statements) and other materials required by this clause (a) fairly present the financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the dates indicated and the results of their operations for the periods indicated, subject to changes resulting from year-end audit and normal year-end adjustments; and
(b) as soon as practicable and in any event not later than 100 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, consolidated and consolidating balance sheets of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such year and the related consolidated (and, as to statements of income only, consolidated and consolidating) statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flow of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case, in comparative form the consolidated figures for the previous year, all in reasonable detail and (i) in the case of such consolidated financial statements, accompanied by a report thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or other Registered Public Accounting Firm of recognized national standing selected by the Company (the "") which report shall state that such consolidated financial statements present fairly the financial position of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and their cash flow for the periods indicated in conformity with GAAP and that the examination by such accountants in connection with such consolidated financial statements has been made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and (ii) in the case of such consolidating financial statements, certified by the chief financial or accounting officer of the Company.
Auditor
. The Company will deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.02 Certificates; Other Information
(a) together with each delivery of financial statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries pursuant to and  above, a Compliance Certificate (i) stating that the signers have reviewed the terms of this Agreement and the Notes and have made, or caused to be made under their supervision, a review in reasonable detail of the transactions and condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries during the accounting period covered by such financial statements and that such review has not disclosed the existence during or at the end of such accounting period, and that the signers do not have knowledge of the existence as at the date of the Compliance Certificate, of any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default or Default, or, if any such condition or event existed or exists, specifying the nature and period of existence thereof, and (ii) demonstrating in reasonable detail compliance during (to the extent required) and at the end of such accounting periods with the restrictions contained in and ;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
Sections 7.05
7.06
 
(b) together with each delivery of consolidated financial statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries pursuant to above, a written statement by the independent accountants giving the report thereon (i) stating that their audit examination has included a review of the terms of this Agreement and the Notes as they relate to accounting matters, and (ii) stating whether, in connection with their audit examination, any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default or Default has come to their attention, and if such a condition or event has come to their attention, specifying the nature and period of existence thereof; that such accountants shall not be liable by reason of any failure to obtain knowledge of any such Event of Default or Default that would not be disclosed in the course of their audit examination. The Administrative Agent shall have the right, from time to time, to discuss the affairs of the Company directly with such independent certified public accountants;
Section 6.01(b)
provided
(c) promptly upon receipt thereof, copies of all reports submitted to the Company (including, without limitation, the Company's Board of Directors) by the Company's independent accountants in connection with each annual, interim or special audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Company made by such accountants, including, without limitation, any comment letter submitted by such accountants to management in connection with their annual audit; and
(d) promptly upon their becoming available, copies of all financial statements, reports, notices and proxy statements sent or made available generally by the Company to its security holders or by any Subsidiary of the Company to its security holders other than the Company or another Subsidiary, and, promptly upon their becoming effective, and in any event within 15 days of filing, all regular and periodic reports and all registration statements and prospectuses that have been filed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries with any securities exchange or with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any Governmental Person succeeding to any of its functions, and all press releases and other statements made available generally by the Company or any Subsidiary to the public concerning material developments in the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
Each document required to be delivered pursuant to or  or shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which the Company posts
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(d)
 
such document on the Company's website on the Internet at the website address listed on , or when such document is posted on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at www.sec.gov or on IntraLinks; that the Company shall deliver paper copies of all such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Company to deliver such paper copies until a request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender. The Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above in this paragraph, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Company with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Schedule 10.02
provided
The Company hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arranger will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Company hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "Platform") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders ( Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Company or its securities) (each, a ""). The Company hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC", the Company shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arranger and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Company or its securities for purposes of the applicable federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor"; and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor". Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC."
Borrower Materials
i.e.,
Public Lender
provided
however
Section 10.07
. The Company will promptly notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
6.03 Notices
(a) promptly upon any executive officer of the Company obtaining knowledge (i) of any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default or Default, or becoming aware that the Administrative Agent or any Lender has given any notice or taken any other action with respect to a claimed Event of Default or Default under this Agreement, (ii) of any condition or event which would be required to be disclosed in a current report filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K (Items 1, 2, 4 and 6 of such Form as in effect on the date hereof) if the Company were required to file such reports under the Exchange Act, (iii) that any Person has given any notice to the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company or taken any other action with respect to a claimed default or event or condition of the type referred to in , (iv) of the institution of any litigation which could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries equal to or greater than $20,000,000
Section 8.01
 
or any adverse determination in any litigation involving a potential liability of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries equal to or greater than $20,000,000, or (v) of a Material Adverse Effect, in each case a Compliance Certificate specifying the nature and period of existence of any such condition or event, or specifying the notice given or action taken by such holder or Person and the nature of such claimed default, Event of Default, Default, event or condition, and what action the Company has taken, is taking and proposes to take with respect thereto;
(b) promptly after the acquisition of any Material Subsidiary, notice of such acquisition;
(c) promptly upon any executive officer of the Company obtaining knowledge, notice of any change in any Debt Rating; and
(d) with reasonable promptness, such other information and data with respect to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as from time to time may be reasonably requested by any Lender or the Administrative Agent, including any financial reports regularly prepared by the Company for internal use.
. Except as permitted or not prohibited in , the Company will at all times preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence and rights and franchises material to its business and those of each of its Material Subsidiaries; that the corporate existence and the rights and franchises of any Material Subsidiary may be terminated or permitted to lapse if such termination or lapse is in the best interest of the Company, is approved by the Board of Directors of the Company and is not materially disadvantageous to the holder of any Note.
6.04 Corporate Existence, etc
Section 7.03
provided
. The Company will, and will cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, pay all taxes, assessments and other governmental charges imposed upon it or any of its properties or assets or in respect of any of its franchises, business, income or property before any penalty or interest accrues thereon, and all claims (including, without limitation, claims for labor, services, materials and supplies) for sums which have become due and payable and which by law have or may become a Lien upon any of its properties or assets, prior to the time when any penalty or fine shall be incurred with respect thereto; that no such charge or claim need be paid if being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings promptly instituted and diligently conducted and if such reserve or other appropriate provision, if any, as shall be required in conformity with GAAP shall have been made therefor. The Company will not, nor will it permit any Material Subsidiary to, file or consent to the filing of any consolidated income tax return with any Person (other than the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company).
6.05 Payment of Taxes and Claims; Tax Consolidation
provided
. Except as permitted or not prohibited in , the Company will maintain or cause to be maintained in good repair, working order and condition all material properties (other than obsolete properties) used or useful in the business of the Company and its Material Subsidiaries and from time to time will make or cause to be made all appropriate repairs, renewals, substitutions and replacements thereof. The Company will maintain or cause to be maintained, with financially sound and reputable insurers, insurance with respect to its properties and business and the properties and business of its
6.06 Maintenance of Properties; Insurance
Section 7.03
 
Material Subsidiaries against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by corporations of established reputation engaged in the same or similar businesses and similarly situated, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other corporations; provided that the Company may maintain a program of self insurance for the Company and its Material Subsidiaries in accordance with sound business practices.
. The Company shall maintain and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Company and such Subsidiaries. The Company will permit any authorized representatives designated by any Lender at the expense of that Lender, to visit and inspect any of the properties of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, including its and their financial and accounting records, and to make copies and take extracts therefrom (but not records relating to intellectual property), and to discuss its and their affairs, finances and accounts with its and their officers and independent public accountants, all upon reasonable notice and at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably requested.
6.07 Inspection of Property and Books and Records
. The Company shall use the proceeds of Loans for general lawful corporate purposes, including, without limitation financing working capital and capital expenditures, lending to its Subsidiaries and acquiring other Persons or businesses so long as the acquisition is approved by the board of directors of the Person being acquired.
6.08 Use of Proceeds of Loans
. The Company shall maintain and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, conduct its operations and keep and maintain its property in compliance with all Environmental Laws, except where the failure to do so could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.09 Environmental Laws
. If from time to time any Guarantor has any material outstanding obligations owing to any Affiliate of the Company which has not signed a Guarantor Subordination Agreement, the Company shall cause such Affiliate to execute and deliver a Guarantor Subordination Agreement and deliver to the Administrative Agent a signature and incumbency certificate of the officers of each such Affiliate and cause such Guarantor to acknowledge each such agreement.
6.10 Subordination Agreements
. The Company shall maintain and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws applicable to it, except in such instances in which (i) such requirement of Laws is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or a bona fide dispute exists with respect thereto; or (ii) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.11 Compliance with Laws
. The Company may from time to time, with the reasonable approval of the Administrative Agent, designate a Domestic Subsidiary that is a Material Subsidiary as a Guarantor, and within 30 days of such approval by the Administrative Agent, cause such Person to (a) become a Guarantor by executing and delivering to the
6.12 Additional Guarantors
 
Administrative Agent a Guaranty Joinder Agreement or such other document as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably deem appropriate for such purposes, (b) become a "Seller" under the Purchase and Sale Agreement by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a Seller Joinder Agreement (as defined in the Purchase and Sale Agreement) or such other document as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably deem appropriate for such purposes, and (c) deliver to the Administrative Agent (w) documents of the types referred to in , ,  and  of and, if applicable, , (x) favorable opinions of counsel to such Person (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to in ), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, (y) stamped copies of Uniform Commercial Code financing statements filed in all places required by applicable Law to perfect the Liens of Mattel Factoring, Inc. under the Purchase and Sale Agreement as a first priority Lien as to items of Specified Assets (as defined in the Purchase and Sale Agreement) in which a security interest may be perfected by the filing of financing statements, and (z) such other assurances, certificates, documents or consents as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require.
clauses (v)
(vii)
(viii)
(ix)
Section 4.01(a)
Section 6.10
clause (a)
The Company agrees from the Closing Date until payment in full of all Obligations and termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the Receivables Purchase Agreement, unless Required Lenders shall otherwise give prior written consent, the Company will perform all covenants in this .
Article VII
. The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly incur, assume, guaranty or otherwise become directly or indirectly liable with respect to any Indebtedness; :
7.01 Indebtedness
except
(a) Indebtedness permitted to be secured under ;
Section 7.02
(b) Non-Priority Indebtedness of the Company; and
(c) Non-Priority Indebtedness of Subsidiaries of the Company not exceeding 20% of Consolidated Net Worth in the aggregate at any time.
. The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on or with respect to any property or asset of the Company or any Subsidiary except:
7.02 Liens
(a) Liens securing Indebtedness for borrowed money not exceeding, together with the aggregate outstanding face amount of sales or discounting of notes or receivables permitted under , $100,000,000 in aggregate principal amount at any time;
Section 7.04(e)
(b) Liens existing on the date hereof;
 
(c) Liens securing Indebtedness under the Receivables Purchase Agreement;
(d) Liens securing Indebtedness under Other Permitted Accounts Receivable Financing Facilities or otherwise arising under transactions permitted pursuant to ;
Section 7.04
(e) Liens listed on ; and
Schedule 7.02
(f) Liens on newly-acquired Capital Assets; that such Liens on Capital Assets located in the United States shall not secure Indebtedness for borrowed money in excess of $25,000,000.
provided
.
7.03 Restriction on Fundamental Changes
(a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to, engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business carried on by it on the date hereof.
(b) The Company shall not, and shall not suffer or permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to, merge, consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions, all or substantially all, of its assets to or in favor of any Person, except:
(i) (A) the Company may merge or consolidate with any other Person provided that the Company shall be the continuing or surviving corporation, and (B) any Material Subsidiary may merge or consolidate with any other Person provided that the Company or a Material Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving corporation; , , that (1) if any transaction shall be between a Subsidiary and a wholly-owned Subsidiary, a wholly-owned Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving corporation, (2) no Default or Event of Default shall result from such merger or consolidation, and (3) except where a wholly-owned Subsidiary merges or consolidates with another wholly-owned Subsidiary or the Company, no Default or Event of Default shall exist prior to such merger or consolidation; and
provided
further
(ii) any Subsidiary of the Company may sell all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Company or another wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company; that, in the event that any such Subsidiary that sells all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to another wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company is a Guarantor and such wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company is not a Guarantor, then such wholly-owned Subsidiary shall guarantee the Obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents pursuant to a guaranty agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
provided
. The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Domestic Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, sell with or without recourse, or discount or otherwise sell for less than the face value thereof any of its notes or accounts receivable, except:
7.04 Sale or Discount of Receivables
(a) discounts offered in the ordinary course of business for early payment of accounts receivable and negotiated settlements of bad debts and disputed accounts receivable in the ordinary course of business;
 
(b) sales of accounts receivable under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and agreements entered into in connection therewith;
(c) sales of accounts receivable under Other Permitted Accounts Receivable Financing Facilities;
(d) sales of accounts receivable where the Company believes in good faith that the collectability of such accounts receivable is or may be jeopardized by the distressed financial condition of the obligor under such accounts receivable; and
(e) sales or discounting of any other notes or receivables, the aggregate outstanding face amount of which does not exceed, together with the aggregate outstanding principal amount of secured Indebtedness permitted under , $100,000,000 in the aggregate at any time.
Section 7.02(a)
. The Company shall not permit, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, the ratio of (a) the sum of (i) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of such date (ii) Combined Purchasers' Investments as of such date (b) Consolidated EBITDA for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on such date, to be greater than 3.00 to 1.
7.05 Leverage Ratio
plus
to
. The Company shall not permit, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on such date (b) interest incurred for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on such date, including capitalized interest and without regard to interest income, to be less than 3.50 to 1.
7.06 Interest Coverage Ratio
to
. No portion of the proceeds of any borrowing under this Agreement shall be used by the Company for the purpose of "purchasing" or "carrying" any Margin Stock in any manner that would cause any Lender to be in violation of Regulation U, of the Federal Reserve Board (or any other regulation of the Federal Reserve Board) or the Exchange Act, in each case as in effect on the date or dates of such borrowing and the use of such proceeds.
7.07 Margin Regulations
. All covenants hereunder shall be given independent effect so that if a particular action or condition is not permitted by any of such covenants, the fact that it would be permitted by an exception to, or be otherwise within the limitations of, another covenant shall not avoid the occurrence of an Event of Default or Default if such action is taken or condition exists.
7.08 Independence of Covenants
. Any of the following conditions or events shall constitute an ":"
8.01 Events of Default
Event of Default
(a) . (i) Failure by any Loan Party to pay any required payment of principal under this Agreement or the Receivables Purchase Agreement or of any Loan or any Notes, when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration, by notice of prepayment or otherwise, (ii) failure by any Loan Party to pay any required payment of interest under this Agreement or the Receivables Purchase Agreement or on any Loan or any Note or any fees payable pursuant to for a period of five days or more after the date such payment is due, or (iii) failure by any Loan Party to pay any other amount due under this Agreement or the Receivables Purchase Agreement within 90 days after written notice thereof; or
Failure to Make Payments When Due
Article II
 
(b) . (i) Failure of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries to pay or any default in the payment of any principal or interest on any Indebtedness in an amount exceeding $15,000,000 or any default in any other obligation for the payment of money in an amount in excess of $15,000,000 beyond any period of grace allowed; or (ii) any breach or default (unless cured or waived) with respect to any other term of any evidence of such other Indebtedness for borrowed money in an amount exceeding $15,000,000 or of any loan agreement, mortgage, indenture or other agreement relating thereto, and such breach or default continues after the applicable grace or notice period, if any, specified in the document relating thereto, if the effect of such failure, default or breach is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness for borrowed money to become or be declared due prior to its stated maturity; or
Default in Other Agreements
(c) . Failure of the Company to perform or comply with any term or condition contained in , , or of this Agreement; or
Breach of Certain Covenants
Sections 6.03(a)
6.04
6.12
Article VII
(d) . Any of the Company's or any other Loan Party's representations or warranties made in any Loan Document in writing pursuant hereto or in connection herewith shall be false in any material respect on the date as of which made; or
Breach of Warranty
(e) . Failure of any Loan Party to perform or comply with any other term or condition contained in any Loan Document to which it is a party thereto, other than the conditions referred to in , ,  and  above, and such default shall not have been remedied or waived within 30 days after receipt of notice from the Administrative Agent or any Lender of such default; or
Other Defaults Under Loan Documents
subsections (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(f) (i) A court having jurisdiction in the premises shall enter a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries in an involuntary case under any applicable Debtor Relief Law now or hereafter in effect, which decree or order is not stayed, or (ii) any other similar relief shall be granted under any applicable federal or state or applicable foreign Law; a petition for an involuntary case shall be filed against the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries under any applicable Debtor Relief Law now or hereafter in effect or a decree or order of a court having jurisdiction in the premises for the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, sequestrator, trustee, custodian or other officer having similar powers over the Company or any of its Material
Involuntary Bankruptcy; Appointment of Receiver, etc.
 
Subsidiaries, or over all or substantially all of its property, shall have been entered; or an interim receiver, trustee or other custodian of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries for all or substantially all of the property of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries shall be appointed involuntarily; and the continuance of any such events in clause (ii) for 45 days unless dismissed, bonded or discharged; or
(g) The Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries shall have an order for relief entered with respect to it or commence a voluntary case under any applicable Debtor Relief Law now or hereafter in effect, or shall consent to the entry of an order for relief in any involuntary case, or to the conversion from an involuntary case, under any such law, or shall consent to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, sequestrator, trustee or other custodian for all or substantially all of its property; the making by the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries of any assignment for the benefit of creditors; or the inability or failure of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries, or the admission by the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries in writing of its inability, to generally pay its debts as such debts become due; or the Board of Directors of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries adopts any resolution or otherwise takes action to approve any of the foregoing; or
Voluntary Bankruptcy; Appointment of Receiver, etc.
(h) . Any final money judgment involving in any case an amount in excess of $20,000,000 or in excess of $40,000,000 in the aggregate at any one time for all final judgments shall be entered or filed against the Company or any Material Subsidiary or any of their respective assets and shall remain undischarged, unvacated, unbonded or unstayed for a period of 45 days or in any event later than five days prior to the date of any proposed sale thereunder; or
Judgments
(i) . Any order, judgment or decree shall be entered against the Company or any Material Subsidiary decreeing the dissolution or split up of the Company and such order shall remain undischarged or unstayed for a period in excess of 30 days; or
Dissolution
(j) . (i) An ERISA Event occurs, or (ii) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of $125,000,000; or
ERISA
(k) . All, or a substantial part of, the property, assets or business of the Company or any Material Subsidiary shall be condemned or seized and such condemnation or seizure shall have (after taking into account any insurance or condemnation award) a Material Adverse Effect; or
Loss of Property
(l) . The Company or any Material Subsidiary shall at any time voluntarily or involuntarily suspend its business or a substantial part thereof which would constitute a substantial part of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and would have a Material Adverse Effect; or
Cessation of Business
(m) . A Servicer Default (as defined in the Receivables Purchase Agreement) shall occur and be continuing; or
Servicer Default
 
(n) . There occurs any Change of Control.
Change of Control
. If any Event of Default occurs, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, (a) declare the Commitment of each Lender to be terminated, whereupon such Commitments shall forthwith be terminated; (b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable; without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Company; and (c) exercise on behalf of itself and the Guaranteed Parties all rights and remedies available to it and the Guaranteed Parties under the Loan Documents or applicable Law; , , that upon the occurrence of any event specified in  or  of above (in the case of  of  upon the expiration of the 45-day period mentioned therein), the obligation of each Lender to make Loans shall automatically terminate and the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
8.02 Remedies
provided
however
paragraph (f)
(g)
Section 8.01
clause (ii)
paragraph (f)
.After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations in respect of the Loan Documents shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
8.03 Application of Funds
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal and interest) payable to the Lenders (including reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them; and
Fourth
Fourth
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Company or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
.The rights provided for in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents are cumulative and are not exclusive of any other rights, powers, privileges or remedies provided by law or in equity, or under any other instrument, document or agreement now existing or hereafter arising, including without limitation, under the Transaction Documents.
8.04 Rights Not Exclusive
 
. Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and the Company shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
9.01 Appointment and Authority
Article
. The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Company or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
9.02 Rights as a Lender
. The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
9.03 Exculpatory Provisions
(a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable Law; and
provided
(c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Company or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
 
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Company or a Lender.
Sections 10.01
8.02
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
. The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Loan. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Company), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
9.04 Reliance by Administrative Agent
. The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
9.05 Delegation of Duties
. The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Company. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Company, to appoint a successor, which shall be (a) a bank with an office in the United States, or
9.06 Resignation of Administrative Agent
 
an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States, and (b) consented to by the Company at all times other than during the existence of an Event of Default (such consent of the Company not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed). If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, after consulting with the Company, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above, which successor shall be consented to by the Company at all times other than during the existence of an Event of Default (such consent of the Company not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (except that in the case of any collateral security held by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders under any of the Loan Documents, the retiring Administrative Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a successor Administrative Agent is appointed) and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Company to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Company and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
provided
Section 10.04
. Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
9.07 Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Arranger, CoSyndication Agents or Co-Managing Agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent or a Lender.
9.08 No Other Duties, Etc
-
 
. In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Company) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
9.09 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.07
10.04
(b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.07
10.04
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
. The Lenders irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent, at its option and in its discretion, to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty if such Person ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder. Upon request by the Administrative Agent at any time, the Required Lenders will confirm in writing the Administrative Agent's authority to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty pursuant to this .
9.10 Guaranty Matters
Section 9.10
. No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Company or any other Loan Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Company or the applicable Loan Party, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the
10.01 Amendments, Etc
 
Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
provided
however
(a) waive any condition set forth in without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01(a)
(b) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
(c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
(d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan, or (subject to clause of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of the Company or any other Person to pay interest at the Default Rate;
Section 10.01
provided
however
(e) change any provision of this or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender;
Section
(f) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; or
Section 2.11
Section 8.03
(g) release all or substantially all the value of the Guaranty without the written consent of each Lender;
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (ii) the Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder (and any amendment, waiver or consent which by its terms requires the consent of all Lenders may be effected with the consent of all Lenders other than Defaulting Lenders), that (i) the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender may not be increased or extended, the principal of or (except as provided in the proviso clause (d) above) the rate of interest for Loans of such Defaulting Lender or fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to such Defaulting Lender may not be reduced without the consent of such Defaulting Lender, (ii) any amendment, waiver or consent may not postpone any
provided further
except
 
date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Defaulting Lender without the consent of such Defaulting Lender, (iii) any amendment, waiver or consent requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender that by its terms affects any Defaulting Lender more adversely than other affected Lenders shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender, (iv) no amendment to the exception of which this  is a part shall be effective without the consent of each Defaulting Lender, and (v) any amendment of, or consent or waiver with respect to, shall require the consent of the Required Lenders and each Defaulting Lender
clause (iv)
Section 10.14
.
.
10.02 Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
(a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in  below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
subsection (b)
(i) if to the Company or the Administrative Agent to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
(ii) if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in  below, shall be effective as provided in such .
subsection (b)
subsection (b)
(b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to if such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Company may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement); that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, then
provided
 
such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received by the intended recipient upon the posting thereof, provided that the intended recipient is immediately delivered notice of such posting at the e-mail address most recently provided to the Administrative Agent by such recipient; that if the relevant notice or communication is not posted during the normal business hours of the recipient, then such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient.
provided further
(c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Company, any Lender or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Company's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Company, any Lender or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
(d) . Each of the Company and the Administrative Agent may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Company and the Administrative Agent. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender. Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the "Private Side Information" or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lender's compliance procedures and applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the "Public Side Information" portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Company or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
Change of Address, Etc
 
(e) .The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Company even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Company. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent and Lenders
. No failure by any Guaranteed Party or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
10.03 No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies; Enforcement
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other Loan Document, the authority to enforce rights and remedies hereunder and under the other Loan Documents against the Loan Parties or any of them shall be vested exclusively in, and all actions and proceedings at law in connection with such enforcement shall be instituted and maintained exclusively by, the Administrative Agent in accordance with for the benefit of all the Guaranteed Parties; , , that the foregoing shall not prohibit (a) the Administrative Agent from exercising on its own behalf the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as Administrative Agent) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (b) any Lender from exercising set-off rights in accordance with (subject to the terms of ), or (c) any Lender form filing proofs of claim or appearing and filing pleadings on its own behalf during the pendency of a proceeding relative to any Loan Party under any Debtor Relief Law; and , , that if at any time there is no Person acting as Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, then (i) the Required Lenders shall have the rights otherwise ascribed to the Administrative Agent pursuant to and (ii) in addition to the matters set forth in  or  of the preceding proviso and subject to , any Lender may, with the consent of the Required Lenders, enforce any rights and remedies available to it and as authorized by the Required Lenders.
Section 8.02
provided
however
Section 10.08
Section 2.11
provided
further
Section 8.02
clauses (b)
(c)
Section 2.11
.
10.04 Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
(a) . The Company shall pay (i) all actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the actual and reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof
Costs and Expenses
 
(whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), and (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent or any Lender), in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this , or (B) in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans.
Section
(b) . The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Company or any other Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including in respect of any matters addressed by ), (ii) any Loan or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, or (iii) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Company or any other Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Company or any other Loan Party against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Company or such other Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Company
Indemnitee
Section 3.01
provided
(c) . To the extent that the Company for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under  or  of this to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof) or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this  are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
subsection (a)
(b)
Section
provided
subsection (c)
Section 2.10(d)
 
(d) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, the Company shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in  above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc.
subsection (b)
(e) . All amounts due under this shall be payable not later than 30 days after demand therefor.
Payments
Section
(f) . The agreements in this shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
Section
.To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Company is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent or any Lender exercises its right of set-off, and such payment or the proceeds of such set-off or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such set-off had not occurred, and (b) each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under  of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
10.05 Payments Set Aside
clause (b)
.
10.06 Successors and Assigns
(a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Company may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of  of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of  of this , or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of
Successors and Assigns Generally
subsection (b)
subsection (d)
Section
 
 of this (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in  of this and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
subsection (f)
Section
subsection (d)
Section
(b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans; that such Lender concurrently assigns a ratable portion of its Purchaser Commitment and its Percentage of the Purchasers' Investment under the Receivables Purchase Agreement; and that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
provided further
(i) .
Minimum Amounts
(A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B) in any case not described in of this , the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Company otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
subsection (b)(i)(A)
Section
provided
however
(ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned.
Proportionate Amounts
(iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by of this and, in addition:
Required Consents
subsection (b)(i)(B)
Section
(A) the consent of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; and
 
(B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to be a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender.
(iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500 (which fee includes any assignment fees in connection with the concurrent assignment of interests under the Receivables Purchase Agreement); , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
(v) . No such assignment shall be made to (A) the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates or Subsidiaries, (B) to any Defaulting Lender or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates that are Distressed Persons, or (C) a natural person.
No Assignment to Certain Persons
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to  of this , from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the Company (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with  of this .
subsection (c)
Section
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
subsection (d)
Section
(c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Company, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. In addition, the Administrative Agent shall maintain on the Register the designation, and revocation or
Register
Register
 
designation, of any Lender as a Defaulting Lender of which it has received notice. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Company and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
(d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Company or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans; that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, and (iv) such Lender shall concurrently with any sale of a participation herein sell a ratable participation in the Receivables Purchase Agreement and thereafter cause any such participation to remain ratable with such participation in the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to  of this , the Company agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to  of this . To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
provided
Section 10.01
subsection (e)
Section
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
subsection (b)
Section
Section 10.08
provided
Section 2.11
(e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under , or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Company's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Company is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Company, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
3.05
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
(f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information
10.07 Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
 
(as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and will agree to be obligated to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable Laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, that the Administrative Agent or the Lender, as the case may be, shall disclose only the information required by such request and shall notify the Company in advance of such disclosure so that the Company may seek an appropriate protective order, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement in writing containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or any Eligible Assignee invited to be a Lender pursuant to or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Company and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Company or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Company.
provided
Section 2.12(c)
For purposes of this , "" means all information received from the Company or any Subsidiary relating to the Company or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Company or any Subsidiary. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Section
Information
Section
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws.
. In addition to any rights now or hereafter granted under applicable Law and not by way of limitation of any such rights, upon the occurrence of and during the continuance of any Event of Default (after the giving of any notice and the expiration of any grace period contained in the definition thereof), each Lender, each of its Affiliates and each subsequent holder of any Note is hereby authorized by the Company at any time or from time to time, without notice to the Company, or to any other Person, any such notice being hereby expressly waived, to set off and to appropriate any and all deposits (including, but not limited to, indebtedness evidenced by certificates of deposit, whether matured or unmatured but not
10.08 Set-off
 
including trust accounts) and any other indebtedness at any time held or owing by that Lender or Affiliate (including, without limitation, branches or agencies of such Lender or Affiliate wherever located) or that subsequent holder to or for the credit or the account of the Company and to apply any such amounts in accordance with the provisions of irrespective of whether or not that Lender, Affiliate or that subsequent holder shall have made any demand hereunder and whether or not such deposits or other indebtedness are otherwise fully secured and that Lender, Affiliate and subsequent holder is hereby irrevocably authorized to permit such setoff and appropriation. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Company and the Administrative Agent after any such set-off and application made by such Lender or Affiliate; , , that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application.
Section 2.11
provided
however
.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Company. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Loans hereunder.
10.09 Interest Rate Limitation
Maximum Rate
. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall become effective when they shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement and any other Loan Document by telecopy or other electronic imaging means shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
10.10 Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.01
. All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Borrowing, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied.
10.11 Survival of Representations and Warranties
 
.If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
10.12 Severability
. If (i) any Lender requests compensation under , (ii) the Company is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Person for the account of any Lender pursuant to , (iii) any Lender is not obligated to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, (iv) any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, (v) any Lender has not consented to a proposed amendment, modification or waiver under this Agreement that requires the consent of the Required Lenders pursuant to (but excluding in each case any Lender that has not consented to a proposed amendment, modification or waiver under this Agreement that requires consent of such Lender pursuant to either proviso contained in ) of which such proposed amendment, modification or waiver has otherwise been approved by the Required Lenders, or (vi) any other circumstance exists hereunder that gives the Company the right to replace a Lender as a party hereto, then the Company may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee (the "") that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
10.13 Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.01
Section 10.01
Section 10.06
Replacement Lender
provided
(a) the Company shall have paid or caused to be paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
(b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Company (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
(c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter;
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
(d) the Company shall, at its sole expense and effort require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse, all of interests, rights and obligations (including its Purchaser Commitment and its Percentage of the Purchasers' Investments) under the Receivables Purchase Agreement to such Replacement Lender that shall assume such obligations as a "Purchaser" thereunder; and
 
(e) such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Company to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
. (a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender (defined below), then, to the extent permitted by applicable Law,
10.14
Defaulting Lenders
(i) during any Default Period (defined below) with respect to such Defaulting Lender, such Defaulting Lender's right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent with respect to this Agreement shall be restricted as set forth in ;
Section 10.01
(ii) until such time as the Default Excess (defined below) with respect to such Defaulting Lender shall have been reduced to zero, any prepayment of the Loans shall, if the Company so directs at the time of making such prepayment, be applied to the Loans of other Lenders as if such Defaulting Lender had no Loans outstanding;
(iii) until such time as all Defaulted Payments (defined below) with respect to such Defaulting Lender shall have been paid, the Administrative Agent may (in its discretion) apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Defaulting Lender to satisfy such Defaulting Lender's obligations to make such Defaulted Payments until such Defaulted Payments have been fully paid;
(iv) with respect to any Defaulting Lender with one or more Defaulted Loans, such Defaulting Lender shall not be entitled to receive any commitment fee pursuant to for any Default Period with respect to such Defaulting Lender (and the Company shall not be required to pay any such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to such Defaulting Lender);
Section 2.07(a)
(v) at the request of the Company, any Defaulting Lender may be replaced in accordance with ; and
Section 10.13
(vi) no assignments otherwise permitted by shall be made to a Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates that are Distressed Persons (as defined below).
Section 10.06
(b) As used in this Agreement:
"" means, with respect to any Defaulting Lender, the excess, if any, of such Defaulting Lender's ratable portion of the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Loans of all Lenders (calculated as if all Defaulting Lenders had funded all of their respective Defaulted Loans) over the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Loans of such Defaulting Lender.
Default Excess
 
"" means, with respect to any Defaulting Lender,
Default Period
(i) in the case of any Defaulted Loan, the period commencing on the date the applicable Defaulted Loan was required to be extended to the Company under this Agreement and ending on the of the following: (x) the date on which (A) the Default Excess with respect to such Defaulting Lender has been reduced to zero (whether by the funding of any Defaulted Loan by such Defaulting Lender or by the non-pro-rata application of any prepayment pursuant to ) and (B) such Defaulting Lender shall have delivered to the Company and the Administrative Agent a written reaffirmation of its intention to honor its obligations hereunder with respect to its Commitment; and (y) the date on which the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders (and not including such Defaulting Lender in any such determination, in accordance with ) waive the application of this with respect to such Defaulted Loans of such Defaulting Lender in writing;
earlier
Section 10.14(a)(ii)
Section 10.14(a)(i)
Section 10.14
(ii) in the case of any Defaulted Payment, the period commencing on the date the applicable Defaulted Payment was required to have been paid to the Administrative Agent or other Lender under this Agreement and ending on the of the following: (x) the date on which (A) such Defaulted Payment has been paid to the Administrative Agent or other Lender, as applicable, together with (to the extent that such Person has not otherwise been compensated by the Company for such Defaulted Payment) interest thereon for each day from and including the date such amount is paid but excluding the date of payment, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with its then-applicable policies regarding interbank compensation (whether by the funding of any Defaulted Payment by such Defaulting Lender or by the application of any amount pursuant to ) and (B) such Defaulting Lender shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent or other Lender, as applicable, a written reaffirmation of its intention to honor its obligations hereunder with respect to such payments; and (y) the date on which the Administrative Agent and any such other Lender waive the application of this with respect to such Defaulted Payments of such Defaulting Lender in writing; and
earlier
Section 10.14(a)(iii)
Section 10.14
(iii) in the case of any Distress Event determined by the Administrative Agent (in its good faith judgment) or the Required Lenders (in their respective good faith judgment) to exist, the period commencing on the date of the applicable Distress Event was so determined to exist and ending on the of the following: (x) the date on which (A) such Distress Event is determined by the Administrative Agent (in its good faith judgment) or the Required Lenders (in their respective good faith judgment) to no longer exist and (B) such Defaulting Lender shall have delivered to the Company and the Administrative Agent a written reaffirmation of its intention to honor its obligations hereunder with
earlier
 
respect to its Commitment; and (y) such date as the Company and the Administrative Agent mutually agree, in their sole discretion, to waive the application of this with respect to Distress Event of such Defaulting Lender.
Section 10.14
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Defaulting Lender".
Defaulted Loan
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Defaulting Lender".
Defaulted Payment
"" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Loans required to be funded by it hereunder (each such Loan, a "") within three Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder (each such payment, a "") within three Business Days of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (c) as to which a Distress Event has occurred, in each case in ,  and  above, for so long as the applicable Default Period is in effect, or (d) is a "Defaulting Purchaser" under the Receivables Purchase Agreement (as such term is defined therein).
Defaulting Lender
Defaulted Loan
Defaulted Payment
clauses (a)
(b)
(c)
"" means, with respect to any Person (each, a ""), (i) a voluntary or involuntary case (or comparable proceeding) has been commenced with respect to such Person under any Debtor Relief Law, (ii) a custodian, conservator, receiver or similar official has been appointed for such Person or for any substantial part of such Person's assets, (iii) both (a) after the date hereof, such Person has consummated a forced (in the good faith judgment of the Administrative Agent) liquidation, merger, sale of assets or other transaction resulting, in the good faith judgment of the Administrative Agent, in a change of ownership or operating control of such Person supported in whole or in part by guaranties, assumption of liabilities or other comparable credit support of (including without limitation the nationalization or assumption of ownership or operating control by) any Governmental Person and (b) the Administrative Agent (in its good faith judgment) or the Required Lenders determine (in their respective good faith judgment) that such event materially increases the risk that such Person could reasonably be expected to default in performing its obligations hereunder for so long as the Administrative Agent (in its good faith judgment) or the Required Lenders (in their respective good faith judgment) so determine, or (iv) such Person has made a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or has otherwise been adjudicated as, or determined by any Governmental Person having regulatory authority over such Person or its assets to be, (a) insolvent or bankrupt or (b) deficient in meeting any capital adequacy or liquidity requirement of any Governmental Person applicable to such Person and as a result of such deficiency either (x) is no longer permitted by such Governmental Person to continue operations or (y) the Administrative Agent (in its good faith judgment) or the Required Lenders determine (in their respective good faith judgment) that such Person could reasonably be expected to no longer be able to continue operations.
Distress Event
Distressed Person
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a Lender which as of the date hereof is already majority owned by a Governmental Person or instrumentality, if such Governmental Person increases its ownership interest in such Lender, such event alone will not trigger above and for purposes of clarity is not intended to cover such event.
clause (iii)(a)
clause (iii)(a)
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Distress Event".
Distressed Person
.
10.15 Applicable Law
(a) This Agreement, any Notes and the other Loan Documents (other than the Guaranty which shall be governed by California law) shall be governed by, and shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, the internal laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts of laws principles.
(b) Any legal action or proceeding with respect to this Agreement may be brought in the courts of the State of New York sitting in the county of New York or of the United States for the Southern District of such State, and by execution and delivery of this Agreement, each of the Administrative Agent, the Company and the Lenders consents, for itself and in respect of its property, to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of those courts. Each of the Administrative Agent, the Company and the Lenders irrevocably waives any objection to the laying of , which it may now or hereafter have to the bringing of any action or proceeding in such jurisdiction in respect of this Agreement or any other Transaction Document. The Administrative Agent, the Company and the Lenders each waive personal service of any summons, complaint or other process, which may be made by any other means permitted by New York law.
forum non conveniens
. EACH PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT HEREBY EXPRESSLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY CLAIM, DEMAND, ACTION OR CAUSE OF ACTION ARISING UNDER ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH OR RELATED OR INCIDENTAL TO THE DEALINGS OF THE PARTIES HERETO OR ANY OF THEM WITH RESPECT TO ANY LOAN DOCUMENT, OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO, IN EACH CASE WHETHER NOW EXISTING OR HEREAFTER ARISING, AND WHETHER FOUNDED IN CONTRACT OR TORT OR OTHERWISE; AND EACH PARTY HEREBY AGREES AND CONSENTS THAT ANY SUCH CLAIM, DEMAND, ACTION OR CAUSE OF ACTION SHALL BE DECIDED BY COURT TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY, AND THAT ANY PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY FILE AN ORIGINAL COUNTERPART OR A COPY OF THIS SECTION WITH ANY COURT AS WRITTEN EVIDENCE OF THE CONSENT OF THE SIGNATORIES HERETO TO THE WAIVER OF THEIR RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY.
10.16 Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury
. In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), the Company acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent, the Arranger and the Lenders
10.17 No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Company and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arranger, on the other hand, (B) the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Company is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent, the Arranger and the Lenders each is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Company or any of its Affiliates or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent, the Arranger nor any Lender has any obligation to the Company or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents and (iii) the Administrative Agent, the Arranger and the Lenders and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent, the Arranger nor any Lender has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Company or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Company hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent, the Arranger and the Lenders with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
. The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption or in any amendment or other modification hereof (including waivers and consents) shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable Law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
10.18 Electronic Execution of Assignments and Certain Other Documents
. Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Company that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Company, which information includes the name and address of the Company and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Company in accordance with the Act. The Company shall, promptly following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provide all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
10.19 USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
 
the parties hereto have caused this Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement to be duly executed and delivered by their proper and duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
This Amendment No. 3 to First Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement (this "") dated as of March 23, 2009 is made by and among MATTEL FACTORING, INC., a Delaware corporation, as transferor (the ""), MATTEL, INC., a Delaware corporation (""), as servicer (the ""), THE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS SIGNATORY HERETO as purchasers (together with any successors and assigns, the ""), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., a national banking association, as agent for the Purchasers (in such capacity, together with any successors and assigns, the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Receivables Purchase Agreement (as defined below).
Amendment
Transferor
Mattel
Servicer
Purchasers
Administrative Agent
, the Transferor, the Servicer, the Purchasers and the Administrative Agent entered into that certain First Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of March 20, 2002, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to First Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of March 19, 2004 and Amendment No. 2 to First Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of Mach 23, 2005 (as the same has been and may be further amended, restated, amended and restated, modified or supplemented from time to time, the ""); and
WHEREAS
Receivables Purchase Agreement
, the Transferor, the Servicer, the Purchasers and the Administrative Agent desire to and have agreed to amend the Receivables Purchase Agreement, in order to, among other things, extend the Facility Termination Date, and to make certain other amendments on the terms and conditions set forth herein, and the Administrative Agent and Purchasers are agreeable to such amendments, subject to the terms and conditions contained in this Amendment;
WHEREAS
, in consideration of the premises and further valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Receivables Purchase Agreement, including all exhibits thereto, is hereby amended such that, after giving effect to all such amendments, it shall read in its entirety as attached hereto as .
Section 1
Amendments to Receivables Purchase Agreement
Exhibit A
. . The effectiveness of this Amendment and the amendments to the Receivables Purchase Agreement herein provided are subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
Section 2
Effectiveness; Conditions Precedent
(a) the Administrative Agent shall have received each of the following documents, instruments or deliverables in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent:
(i) four (4) original counterparts of this Amendment, duly executed by each of the Transferor, the Servicer, the Purchasers and the Administrative Agent, together with all schedules and exhibits thereto duly completed;
(ii) resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Transferor and the Servicer authorizing the transactions contemplated hereby, certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Transferor and the Servicer, respectively;
(iii) a favorable opinion of a Senior Counsel of the Servicer and Latham & Watkins LLP, as counsel to the Transferor and Servicer, relating to the Transferor and Servicer and as to such other matters as the Administrative Agent and the Purchasers may reasonably request; and
(iv) such other documents, instruments, opinions, certifications, undertakings, further assurances and other matters as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request; and
(b) all actual and reasonable fees and expenses payable to the Administrative Agent (including the actual and reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Administrative Agent) estimated to date shall have been paid in full (without prejudice to final settling of accounts for such fees and expenses).
Upon the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in this , the effectiveness of this Amendment and the effectiveness of the Mattel Credit Agreement (as defined in ) shall be deemed to occur simultaneously, such that the Purchasers party hereto shall be deemed to be "Purchasers" party to the Receivables Purchase Agreement (as amended hereby).
Section 2
Exhibit A
. . In order to induce the Administrative Agent and the Purchasers to enter into this Amendment, the Transferor and the Servicer represent and warrant to the Administrative Agent and the Purchasers as follows:
Section 3
Representations and Warranties
(a) The representations and warranties made by each Seller Party in of the Receivables Purchase Agreement and in each of the other Transaction Documents to which such Seller Party is a party are true and correct on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date;
Section 5
(b) This Amendment has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Transferor and the Seller and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such parties, except as may be limited by general principles of equity or by the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors' rights generally; and
(c) No Termination Event has occurred and is continuing.
. . This Amendment, together with all the Transaction Documents (collectively, the ""), sets forth the entire understanding and
Section 4
Entire Agreement
Relevant Documents
 
agreement of the parties hereto in relation to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior negotiations and agreements among the parties relating to such subject matter. No promise, condition, representation or warranty, express or implied, not set forth in the Relevant Documents shall bind any party hereto, and no such party has relied on any such promise, condition, representation or warranty. Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that, except as otherwise expressly stated in the Relevant Documents, no representations, warranties or commitments, express or implied, have been made by any party to the other. None of the terms or conditions of this Amendment may be changed, modified, waived or canceled orally or otherwise, except in writing and in accordance with of the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
Section 10.01
. . Except as hereby specifically amended, modified or supplemented, the Receivables Purchase Agreement and all other Transaction Documents are hereby confirmed and ratified in all respects and shall be and remain in full force and effect according to their respective terms.
Section 5
Full Force and Effect of Agreement
. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original as against any party whose signature appears thereon, and all of which shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Section 6
Counterparts
. . THIS AMENDMENT SHALL IN ALL RESPECTS BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS EXECUTED AND TO BE PERFORMED ENTIRELY WITHIN SUCH STATE, AND SHALL BE FURTHER SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF OF THE RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT.
Section 7
Governing Law
SECTION 10.13
. . Should any one or more of the provisions of this Amendment be determined to be illegal or unenforceable as to one or more of the parties hereto, all other provisions nevertheless shall remain effective and binding on the parties hereto.
Section 8
Enforceability
. . All references in any of the Transaction Documents to the "Receivables Purchase Agreement" or in the Receivables Purchase Agreement to "this Agreement" shall mean the Receivables Purchase Agreement, as amended hereby.
Section 9
References
. . This Amendment shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Transferor, the Servicer, each of the Purchasers, the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agents and the Documentation Agents, and their respective successors, legal representatives, and assignees to the extent such assignees are permitted assignees as provided in the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
Section 10
Successors and Assigns
 
, the parties hereto have caused this instrument to be made, executed and delivered by their duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


