FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20090914161439.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 3.01. Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
On September 14, 2009, Mattel, Inc. (the "Company") provided written notice to the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") that the Company expects to voluntarily cease trading on the NYSE, effective on or about September 25, 2009, and intends to transfer its listing to the NASDAQ Global Select Market ("NASDAQ"). The Company's common stock, $1.00 par value per share, has been approved for listing on NASDAQ and is expected to commence trading on or about September 28, 2009 under the Company's current stock symbol "MAT".
A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.0 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 14, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., Sept. 14, 2009  Mattel, Inc., the world's largest toymaker, announced today that it will voluntarily transfer its stock exchange listing from the New York Stock Exchange to the NASDAQ Global Select Market, effective Sept. 28. Mattel will continue to trade under the ticker symbol MAT.
"Our switch to NASDAQ exemplifies our continued focus on shareholder value," said Dianne Douglas, treasurer and senior vice president of Investor Relations for Mattel. "We believe NASDAQ's global technology leadership and vast product offerings provide Mattel and our shareholders with increased value."
"NASDAQ OMX is delighted to welcome Mattel, a global company whose iconic brands have set the standard for the toy industry," said Bruce Aust, executive vice president, Global Corporate Client Group. "NASDAQ OMX and our companies have always been a part of how people live, work and play. We look forward to playing together with Mattel to support their vision for growth through our high quality, transparent market, worldwide visibility and unique support services."
About Mattel
Mattel, Inc. (www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radica and TycoR/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. In 2009, Mattel is recognized among the "100 Best Corporate Citizens," as one of the "World's Most Ethical Companies" and as one of FORTUNE Magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For." With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs approximately 30,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations. Mattel's vision is to be the world's premier toy brandstoday and tomorrow.


