FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20090417060739.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 17, 2009, Mattel issued a press release regarding its first quarter 2009 financial results, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In its first quarter 2009 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
 
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: April 17, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
First Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., April 17, 2009  Mattel, Inc. (NYSE: MAT) today reported 2009 first quarter financial results. For the quarter, the company reported a net loss of $51.0 million, or $0.14 per share, compared to last year's first quarter net loss of $46.6 million, or $0.13 per share.
 
"This quarter's results met our expectations, with revenues negatively impacted by foreign exchange rates and retailer inventory reductions," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "We've made good progress on several strategically important fronts, and will continue to manage costs and expenses in light of expected revenue challenges."
 
Financial Overview
 
For the quarter, net sales were $785.6 million, down 15 percent compared to $919.3 million last year, including unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 7 percentage points. On a regional basis, first quarter gross sales decreased 6 percent in the U.S. and decreased 23 percent in international markets, including unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 13 percentage points. Operating loss for the quarter was $55.2 million, compared to prior year's operating loss for the quarter of $36.5 million.
 
Mattel Reports First Quarter 2009 Results/Page 2 2 2
 
The company's debt-to-total capital ratio was 30.5 percent. Consistent with the seasonality of the business, during the quarter the company's cash and equivalents declined by approximately $213 million, compared with a decline of approximately $276 million in last year's first quarter.
 
Sales by Business Unit
 
Mattel Girls and Boys Brands
 
For the first quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands business unit were $504.0 million, down 15 percent versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 5 percent, with a double-digit domestic increase offset by international declines, which were caused by changes in foreign exchange rates. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were down 27 percent, driven by declines in the Polly Pocket and High School Musical doll lines. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were down 14 percent, driven primarily by declines in last year's property. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Radica and Games and Puzzles, were down 21 percent for the quarter, driven by declines in the CARS and properties.
Speed Racer
Speed Racer
 
Fisher-Price Brands
 
First quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price Core, Fisher-Price Friends and Power Wheels brands, were $283.7 million, or down 17 percent versus the prior year, primarily due to declines in Fisher-Price Core.
 
American Girl Brands
 
First quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products directly to consumers, were $66.4 million, down 4 percent versus last year, reflecting the later timing of Easter.
 
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2009 first quarter financial results conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time (5:30 a.m. Pacific time) today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Web site, www.mattel.com. To listen to the live call, log on to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's Web site for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call.
 
Mattel Reports First Quarter 2009 Results/Page 3 3 3
 
A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time the morning of the call, until midnight Eastern time on April 21
st
and may be accessed by dialing + 1 (719) 457-0820. The passcode is 9488344.
 
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of www.mattel.com, under the sub-headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc. (NYSE: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radica and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. In 2009, Mattel is recognized among the "100 Best Corporate Citizens," as one of the "World's Most Ethical Companies" and as one of FORTUNE Magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For." With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs approximately 30,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations. Mattel's vision is to be the world's premier toy brands  today and tomorrow.
 
 
Note: This release contains a forward-looking statement relating to Mattel's 2009 focus in light of expected revenue challenges. This forward-looking statement is based on currently available operating, financial, economic and competitive information and is subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties. A variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, affect the operations, performance, business strategy and results of Mattel and could cause actual future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward looking statement. Some of these factors are described in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section of Mattel's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and Mattel's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for fiscal year 2009, as well as in Mattel's other public statements. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE GROSS SALES INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW DATA (Unaudited)
 
 


