FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20091016060430.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 16, 2009, Mattel issued a press release regarding its third quarter 2009 financial results, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
In its third quarter 2009 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 16, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Third Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., Oct. 16, 2009  Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAT) today reported 2009 third quarter financial results. For the quarter, the company reported net income of $229.8 million, or $0.63 per share, compared to last year's third quarter net income of $238.1 million, or $0.65 per share.
"As expected, revenues continue to be challenging this year due to the overall economic environment, retailers tightly managing inventory, foreign exchange rates and the lack of entertainment-inspired toy lines," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel, Inc. "That said, we are continuing to make strong progress on reducing costs, rebuilding margins and generating strong cash flow."
Financial Overview
For the quarter, net sales were $1.79 billion, down 8 percent compared to $1.95 billion last year, including unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 3 percentage points. On a regional basis, third quarter gross sales decreased 2 percent in the U.S. and decreased 14 percent in international markets, including unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 5 percentage points. Operating income for the quarter was $336.5 million, compared to prior year's operating income for the quarter of $315.3 million.
Mattel Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results/Page 2 2 2
 
The company's debt-to-total-capital ratio was 27.6 percent. Consistent with the seasonality of the business, during the first nine months, the company's cash and equivalents declined by approximately $294 million. This compares to a decline of $454 million in the first nine months of 2008.
Sales by Business Unit
Mattel Girls and Boys Brands
For the third quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands business unit were $1.08 billion, down 10 percent versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand declined 8 percent compared to last year, with essentially flat domestic sales offset by international declines. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were down 19 percent, driven primarily by declines in the High School Musical and Polly Pocket toy lines, partially offset by higher sales of Little Mommy and Disney Princesses in the U.S. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were down 3 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Radica and Games and Puzzles, declined 15 percent for the quarter, mostly attributable to lower sales of Radica and toys geared to last year's summer entertainment properties, partially offset by worldwide sales of toys supporting Disney/Pixar's Toy Story and Toy Story 2, along with stronger U.S. sales of Disney/Pixar CARS related product.
Fisher-Price Brands
Third quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price Core, Fisher-Price Friends and Power Wheels brands, were $784.8 million, or down 6 percent versus the prior year, primarily due to declines in Fisher-Price Core and Fisher-Price Friends domestically.
American Girl Brands
Third quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products directly to consumers, were $82.4 million, up 4 percent versus last year, reflecting the benefit of the opening of two new boutique stores in Boston and Minneapolis in November 2008.
Mattel Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results/Page 3 3 3
 
Live Webcast
Mattel will webcast its 2009 third quarter earnings conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time (5:30 a.m. Pacific time) today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Web site, www.mattel.com. To listen to the live call, log on to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's Web site for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time the morning of the call, until midnight Eastern time on October 20th and may be accessed by dialing + 1 (719) 457-0820. The passcode is 5422939.
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of www.mattel.com, under the sub-headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
About Mattel
Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radica and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. In 2009, Mattel is recognized among the "100 Best Corporate Citizens," as one of the "World's Most Ethical Companies" and as one of FORTUNE Magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For." With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs approximately 29,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations. Mattel's vision is to be the world's premier toy brandstoday and tomorrow.
MAT-Corp
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
 
 
Note: Beginning January 1, 2009, U.S. GAAP guidance changed the way in which certain restricted stock units are treated in the calculation of basic and diluted EPS. These requirements are to be applied retrospectively to prior periods to the extent those prior period EPS amounts appear in current SEC filings. Application of these new requirements had the effect of reducing previously reported basic and diluted EPS for the three months ended September 30, 2008 by $0.01.
 
 
WORLDWIDE GROSS SALES INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW DATA (Unaudited)
 
 


