FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20090202060507.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 2, 2009, Mattel issued a press release regarding its fourth quarter and full-year 2008 financial results, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In its fourth quarter and full-year 2008 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
 
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: February 2, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full-Year Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., February 2, 2009  Mattel, Inc. (NYSE:MAT) today reported 2008 fourth quarter and full-year financial results. For the quarter, the company reported net income of $176.4 million, or $0.49 per share, compared to last year's fourth quarter net income of $328.5 million, or $0.89 per share. For the year, the company reported net income of $379.6 million, or $1.05 per share, compared to last year's net income of $600.0 million, or $1.54 per share.
 
"Our business wasn't immune from the deteriorating economic environment of 2008," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel, "In response, our focus for 2009 is on cost and spending reductions, and maintaining a strong balance sheet."
 
Financial Overview
 
For the quarter, net sales were $1.94 billion, an 11 percent decrease from $2.19 billion last year, and included an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 5 percentage points. On a regional basis, fourth quarter gross sales were down 6 percent in the U.S. and were down 20 percent
 
MATTEL REPORTS 2008 FINANCIAL RESULTS/PAGE 2 2 2
 
in international markets, which included a negative impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 11 percentage points. Operating income for the quarter was down 36 percent to $232.4 million.
 
For the year, net sales were $5.92 billion, a 1 percent decline from $5.97 billion last year, and included no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. On a regional basis, full-year gross sales were down 2 percent in the U.S. and were down 1 percent in international markets, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. Operating income for the year was $541.8 million, down 26 percent compared to the prior year.
 
The company's debt-to-total capital ratio of 29.8 percent is in line with the company's capital and investment framework, and its year-end cash balance was $617.7 million. During 2008, the company repurchased 4.9 million shares of its common stock at a cost of approximately $91 million.
 
Mattel Girls & Boys Brands
 
Fourth quarter worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands business unit were $1.12 billion, down 17 percent versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 21 percent and worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were down 8 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were down 19 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Radica and Games and Puzzles, were down 17 percent for the quarter.
 
For the year, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands business unit were $3.64 billion, or down 2 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were down 9 percent. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 11 percent for the year. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category were up 4 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, including Radica and Games and Puzzles, were down 4 percent.
 
Fisher-Price Brands
 
Fourth quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price, Little People, and Power Wheels brands, were $754.2 million, down 10 percent. For the year, worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit were $2.36 billion, down 3 percent.
 
MATTEL REPORTS 2008 FINANCIAL RESULTS/PAGE
3 3 3
 
American Girl Brands
 
Fourth quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products direct to consumers, were $254.0 million, up 5 percent. For the year, gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit were $463.1 million, up 7 percent.
 
Live Webcast
 
Mattel will webcast its 2008 fourth quarter and year-end earnings conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time (5:30 a.m. Pacific time) today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Web site, www.mattel.com. To listen to the live call, log on to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's Web site for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time the morning of the call, until midnight Eastern time on Feb. 6th and may be accessed by dialing + (719) 457-0820. The passcode is 3790024.
 
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of , under the sub-headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
 
About Mattel
 
Mattel, Inc., (NYSE: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radicaand Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. Mattel is recognized as one of 2008 and 2009's "100 Best Companies to Work For" by FORTUNE Magazine. With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs approximately 30,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations. Mattel's vision is to be the world's premier toy brands  today and tomorrow.
 
 
Note: This release contains a forward-looking statement relating to Mattel's 2009 focus. This forward-looking statement is based on currently available operating, financial, economic and competitive information and is subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties. A variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, affect the operations, performance, business strategy and results of Mattel and could cause actual future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward looking statement. Some of these factors are described in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section of Mattel's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and Mattel's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for fiscal year 2008, as well as in Mattel's other public statements. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
 
 
WORLDWIDE GROSS SALES INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 


