FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20100716060626.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 16, 2010, Mattel issued a press release regarding its second quarter 2010 financial results, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
In its second quarter 2010 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 16, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Second Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., July 16, 2010  Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAT) today reported 2010 second quarter financial results. For the quarter, the company reported net income of $51.6 million, or $0.14 per share, compared to last year's second quarter net income of $21.5 million, or $0.06 per share.
"I am pleased with the continued solid performance across our portfolio of brands and countries, particularly Barbie and Hot Wheels, as well as the stellar contribution of the much-anticipated Toy Story 3 property," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "With the all important second-half of the year ahead of us, I am encouraged by the strong momentum of our product line, which boasts some of the industry's most innovative and exciting toys that deliver terrific play value for both parent and child."
Financial Overview
For the quarter, net sales were $1.02 billion, up 13 percent compared to $898.2 million last year, including unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 3 percentage points. On a regional basis, second quarter gross sales increased 17 percent in the U.S. and increased 9 percent in international markets, including unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 5 percentage points. Operating income for the quarter was $69.4 million, compared to prior year's operating income for the quarter of $32.5 million.
 
Mattel Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results/Page 2 2 2
 
The company's debt-to-total-capital ratio was 22.1 percent. Consistent with the seasonality of the business, year-to-date, net cash flow used for operating activities was approximately $372 million, an increase of $22 million, compared with a use of approximately $350 million in the first half of 2009. During the second quarter of 2010, the company repurchased approximately 5 million shares of its common stock at a cost of approximately $111 million.
Sales by Business Unit
Mattel Girls and Boys Brands
For the second quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands business unit were $653.2 million, up 21 percent versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were up 6 percent. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 3 percent, driven by the Disney Princess doll line. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels business, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were up 5 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Radica and Games and Puzzles, were up 60 percent for the quarter, primarily driven by growth in the Toy Story 3 and World Wrestling Entertainment properties, as well as core games.
Fisher-Price Brands
Second quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price Core, Fisher-Price Friends and Power Wheels brands, were $385.2 million, or up 4 percent versus the prior year, primarily driven by sales of products supporting evergreen entertainment properties, such as Thomas and Friends and Dora the Explorer, as well as solid performance in Fisher-Price Core.
American Girl Brands
Second quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products directly to consumers, were $58.9 million, down 4 percent versus last year, reflecting this year's slightly earlier Easter and last year's debut of historical character Rebecca. The declines were partially offset by sales of products related to Lanie, the 2010 Girl of the Year.
 
Mattel Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results/Page 3 3 3
 
Live Webcast
Mattel will webcast its 2010 second quarter financial results conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time (5:30 a.m. Pacific time) today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Web site, www.mattel.com. To listen to the live call, log on to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's Web site for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time the morning of the call, until midnight Eastern time on July 20th and may be accessed by dialing + 1 (706) 645-9291. The passcode is 79744049.
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of http://corporate.mattel.com/, under the sub-headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
About Mattel
Mattel, Inc., (NASDAQ: MAT, ) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radica and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. In 2010, Mattel was named as one of FORTUNE Magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For" for the third year in a row, and was ranked among Corporate Responsibility Magazine's "100 Best Corporate Citizens." Mattel also is recognized among the "World's Most Ethical Companies." With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs approximately 27,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations. At Mattel, we are "Creating the Future of Play."
www.mattel.com
MAT-FIN
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


