FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20100928093453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 23, 2010, Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") entered into an Underwriting Agreement with the underwriters named therein pursuant to which Mattel will issue $500 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, consisting of 4.35% Notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes") and 6.20% Notes due 2040 (the "2040 Notes" and collectively with the 2020 Notes, the "Notes"), upon the terms and conditions set forth therein. The Notes will be governed by the terms of the Indenture between Mattel and Union Bank, N.A., dated as of September 23, 2010 (the "Indenture"). Mattel intends to use the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes for general corporate purposes, including repayment of outstanding debt maturing in 2011.
Mattel will pay interest on the Notes semi-annually on April 1 and October 1, beginning April 1, 2011. The 2020 Notes will mature on October 1, 2020, and the 2040 Notes will mature on October 1, 2040. The Notes are senior unsecured debt obligations of Mattel and will rank equally in right of payment among themselves and with all of Mattel's other present and future senior unsecured indebtedness.
The Notes have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act") pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-169539) (the "Registration Statement") previously filed with the Commission by Mattel under the Act. Copies of the Underwriting Agreement and the form of the Notes are filed as exhibits hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Mattel hereby files the following exhibits to, and incorporates such exhibits by reference in, the Registration Statement which was filed on September 23, 2010 and supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 23, 2010, or otherwise pursuant to requirements of Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
September 23, 2010
Banc of America Securities LLC
RBS Securities Inc.
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
c/o RBS Securities Inc.
600 Washington Boulevard
Stamford, CT 06901
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Mattel, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule A (the "Underwriters"), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A hereto of $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.350% Notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes") and $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.200% Notes due 2040 (the "2040 Notes" and together with the 2020 Notes, the "Notes") and RBS Securities Inc. ("RBS") and Banc of America Securities LLC have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "Representatives") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes.
The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of September 23, 2010, between the Company and Union Bank, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"). The term "Indenture," as used herein, includes the Officers' Certificate (as defined in the Indenture) or supplemental indenture establishing the form and terms of the Notes pursuant to Section 2.1 of the Indenture. The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depositary"), pursuant to the Blanket Issuer Letter of Representations, dated June 2, 2006 (the "DTC Agreement"), between the Company and the Depositary.
The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-169539), which contains a base prospectus (the "Base Prospectus"), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of debt securities, including the Notes, and other securities of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Securities Act"), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with
Rule 415 under the Securities Act. Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective automatically upon filing under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "Registration Statement." The term "Prospectus" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed and delivered by the parties hereto. The term "Preliminary Prospectus" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 3:30p.m. Eastern Standard Time on September 23, 2010 (the "Initial Sale Time"). All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("EDGAR").
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, Prospectus or Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, Prospectus or Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, Prospectus or Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Exchange Act"), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, Prospectus or Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
SECTION 1. . The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof and as of the Initial Sale Time (in each case, a "Representation Date"), as follows:
Representations and Warranties
(a) The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act and has prepared and filed with the Commission the Registration Statement. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act against the Company or related to the offering have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with. In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Trust Indenture Act").
Compliance with Registration Requirements.
 
At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "Securities Act Regulations") and the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to (i) that part of the Registration Statement which constitutes the Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 of the Trustee under the Trust Indenture Act (the "Form T-1") and (ii) statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Each Preliminary Prospectus and Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the SEC, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act Regulations, including without limitation Rule 415(a)(1)(x), and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(b) The term "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated September 23, 2010 and (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus"), if any, identified in Annex I hereto. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Disclosure Package.
(c) The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and
Incorporated Documents.
 
regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "Exchange Act Regulations") and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(d) (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Notes in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) as of the date and time hereof (the "Execution Time"), the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer.
(e) (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer.
(f) Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses.
 
(g) The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus included in Annex I hereto or the Registration Statement.
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company.
(h) There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights.
(i) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement.
(j) The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
Authorization of the Indenture.
(k) The Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Notes.
(l) The Notes and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Notes and the Indenture.
(m) The statements (A) in the Base Prospectus under the captions "Description of Debt Securities We May Offer" and "United States Taxation" (B) in each of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the caption "Supplemental Description of the Notes," in each case insofar as such statements constitute a summary of the legal matters, documents or proceedings referred to therein, fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
Accuracy of Statements in Prospectus.
(n) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus: there has been no material adverse change, or any development that would reasonably be expected to result in a material
No Material Adverse Change.
 
adverse change, in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business, properties, operations or prospects, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (any such change is called a "Material Adverse Change").
(o) PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009 incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, are independent public accountants with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the applicable published rules and regulations thereunder and are a registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants.
(p) The financial statements together with the related notes thereto incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. Such financial statements comply as to form with the accounting requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. No other financial statements are required to be included in the Registration Statement. The selected financial data and the summary financial information included in the Preliminary Prospectus, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Preparation of the Financial Statements.
(q) Each of the Company and its significant subsidiaries (as defined in Rule 1-02(10) of Regulation S-X, the "Significant Subsidiaries") has been duly incorporated or formed and is validly existing as a corporation or other business entity in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation and has corporate or other business entity power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and, in the case of the Company, to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement. Each of the Company and each subsidiary is duly qualified as a foreign corporation or other business entity to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not reasonably be expected to result, individually or in the aggregate, in a Material Adverse Change. All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of each subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim. The Company does not have any subsidiary not listed on Exhibit 21 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the "Annual Report on Form 10-K") which is required to be so listed.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
 
(r) Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is (i) in violation or in default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, would be in default) ("Default") under its charter or by-laws, (ii) in Default under any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, deed of trust, note, contract, franchise, lease or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (each, an "Existing Instrument") or (iii) in violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, as applicable, except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) only, for such Defaults or violations as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. The Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package and by the Prospectus (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and will not result in any Default under the charter or by-laws of the Company or any subsidiary, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default or a Debt Repayment Triggering Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument, and (iii) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, except, with respect to clause (ii) only, for such conflicts, breaches, Defaults, Debt Repayment Triggering Events, liens, charges or encumbrances as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change, and, with respect to clause (iii) only, for such violations as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package and by the Prospectus. No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package or by the Prospectus, except such as have been obtained or made by the Company and are in full force and effect under the Securities Act, applicable state securities or blue sky laws and from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("FINRA"). As used herein, a "Debt Repayment Triggering Event" means any event or condition which gives, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time would give, the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) issued by the Company, the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required.
(s) Except as disclosed in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened (i) against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) which has as the subject thereof any officer or director (in their capacity as such director or officer) of, or property owned or leased by, the Company or any of its
No Material Actions or Proceedings.
 
subsidiaries or (iii) relating to environmental or discrimination matters related to the Company or its subsidiaries, where any such action, suit or proceeding, if determined adversely, would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
(t) No material dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists, and the Company is not aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or its subsidiaries' principal suppliers, contractors or customers, that would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Labor Matters.
(u) Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, to the Company's knowledge, the Company or its subsidiaries own or possess the right to use all patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patentable inventions, trade secrets and know-how used by the Company or its subsidiaries in, and material to, the conduct of the Company's or its subsidiaries' business as now conducted or as proposed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus to be conducted (collectively, the "Intellectual Property"). Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there are no material legal or governmental actions, suits, proceedings or claims pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened, against the Company (i) challenging the Company's rights in or to any Intellectual Property, (ii) challenging the validity or scope of any Intellectual Property owned by the Company, or (iii) alleging that the operation of the Company's business as now conducted infringes or otherwise violates any patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary rights of a third party.
Intellectual Property Rights.
(v) The Company has been advised of the rules and requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act"). The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act.
Company Not an "Investment Company."
(w) The Company and its Significant Subsidiaries are insured by recognized, financially sound and reputable institutions with policies in such amounts and with such deductibles and covering such risks as the Company believes are adequate for its business. The Company has not received notice that any material policy of insurance insuring the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or their respective businesses, assets, employees, officers and directors are not in full force and effect; the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms of such policies and instruments in all material respects; and there are no material claims by the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries under any such policy or instrument as to which any insurance company is denying liability or defending under a reservation of rights clause, except where any such claims would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Insurance.
(x) The Company has not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would be reasonably expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation.
 
(y) None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the FCPA, and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance in all material respects with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments.
"FCPA" means Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
(z) None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries, or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is an individual or entity (a "Person") currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury or any sanctions or measures imposed by, the United Nations Security Council, the European Union or Her Majesty's Treasury (collectively, the "Sanctions"), nor is the Company or any of its subsidiaries operating in a country or territory that is the subject of Sanctions, where such operations are in violation of such Sanctions.
(aa) The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws.
(bb) Except as would not otherwise reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change and except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and its subsidiaries (i) are in compliance with any and all applicable foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants ("Environmental Laws"), (ii) have received all permits, licenses or other approvals required of them under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses, (iii) are in compliance with all terms and conditions of any such permit, license or approval, and (iv) are not subject to any claims or liabilities arising out of the release of or exposure to wastes, pollutants or contaminants and are not aware of any facts or circumstances which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim.
Compliance with Environmental Laws.
 
(cc) In the ordinary course of its business, the Company conducts a periodic review of the effect of Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, in the course of which it identifies and evaluates associated costs and liabilities (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up, closure of properties or compliance with Environmental Laws or any permit, license or approval, any related constraints on operating activities and any potential liabilities to third parties). On the basis of such review and the amount of its established reserves, the Company has reasonably concluded that such associated costs and liabilities would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Periodic Review of Costs of Environmental Compliance.
(dd) There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance.
(ee) The Company and its subsidiaries maintain a system of "disclosure controls and procedures" (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act) that is designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, including controls and procedures designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company and its subsidiaries have carried out evaluations of the effectiveness of their disclosure controls and procedures as required by Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.
Disclosure Controls.
(ff) The Company and its subsidiaries maintain systems of "internal control over financial reporting" (as defined in Rule 1 3a-1 5(f) of the Exchange Act) that comply with the requirements of the Exchange Act. To the knowledge of the Company's Chief Financial Officer and the Company's Corporate Controller (who is the Company's chief accounting officer), since December 31, 2009 and except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, no material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in the Company's internal controls have been identified. Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
Accounting Controls.
SECTION 2. .
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Notes
(a) The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of the Notes set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of (i) 99.125% of the principal amount of the 2020 Notes and (ii) 98.544% of the principal amount of the 2040 Notes, payable on the Closing Date.
The Notes.
 
(b) Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, 1888 Century Park East, Los Angeles, California 90067 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on September 28, 2010, or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "Closing Date").
The Closing Date.
(c) The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after this Agreement has been executed as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Notes.
(d) Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Notes.
It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(e) The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters certificates for the Notes at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The certificates for the Notes shall be in such denominations and registered in such names and denominations as the Representatives shall have requested at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representatives may designate. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Notes.
SECTION 3. . The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
Covenants
(a) The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act Regulations, and will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (defined below) of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission related to the Registration Statement during the Prospectus Delivery Period, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.
 
effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424. The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
(b) During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Notes by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act Regulations provided, that, in no event shall such date be later than 9 months following the date of this Agreement (the "Prospectus Delivery Period"), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) of the Securities Act Regulations), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be.
Filing of Amendments.
(c) The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements.
(d) The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses.
(e) The Company will comply in all material respects with the Securities Act and the Securities Act Regulations and the Exchange Act and the Exchange Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws.
 
occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the Securities Act or the Securities Act Regulations, the Company will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such requirements, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
(f) The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Notes for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes. The Company shall not be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business. The Company will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Notes for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Blue Sky Compliance.
(g) The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds.
(h) The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary.
(i) During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission and The NASDAQ Global Select Market all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations.
(j) During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
 
discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company similar to the Notes or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Notes (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Notes).
(k) The Company will prepare a final term sheet for the Notes containing only a description of the Notes, and will file such term sheets pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheets, the "Final Term Sheets"). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement. The form of the Final Term Sheet for the Notes is attached hereto as Exhibit C.
Final Term Sheets.
(l) The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus." The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information described under Rule 134 of the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheets of the Company contemplated in Section 3(k); provided that each Underwriter severally covenants with the Company not to take any action without the Company's consent that would result in the Company being required to file with the Commission under Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act a free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of such Underwriter that otherwise would not be required to be filed by the Company thereunder, but for the action of the Underwriter.
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses.
(m) If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement of post-effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form.
 
action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
(n) The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time required by and in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees.
The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
SECTION 4. . The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Notes (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes to the Underwriters, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors to the Company, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Notes, (v) all filing fees, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Notes for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if requested by the Representatives, preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by FINRA of the terms of the sale of the Notes, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Notes, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Notes with the ratings agencies, (ix) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Notes by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4, Section 6, Section 8 and Section 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
Payment of Expenses
SECTION 5. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
 
set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time, and as of the Closing Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
(a) The Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b)(1), (2), (3), (4) or (5), as applicable (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430A).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement.
(b) On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent public or certified public accountants for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letter.
(c) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent public or certified public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter.
(d) For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change.
(i) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change;
(ii) there shall not have been any change or decrease specified in the letter or letters referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 5 which is, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes as contemplated by the Registration Statement and the Prospectus; and
(iii) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded
 
any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act.
(e) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Andrew Paalborg, Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as Exhibit A.
Opinion of In-house Counsel for the Company.
(f) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinions of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, counsel for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, the forms of which are attached as Exhibit B-1 and B-2.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.
(g) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Mayer Brown LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
(h) On the Closing Date, the Representative shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or a Senior Vice President of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company on behalf of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate.
(i) the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or, to the knowledge of such officers, threatened by the Commission;
(ii) the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form;
(iii) for the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date, there has not occurred any downgrading, and the Company has not received any notice of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act;
(iv) for the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to such Closing Date, there has not occurred any Material Adverse Change;
(v) the representations, warranties and covenants of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of such Closing Date; and
 
(vi) the Company has complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date.
(i) . On or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional Documents
If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Section 4, Section 6, Section 8, Section 9, Section 12 and Section 16 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
SECTION 6. . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5 or Section 11(i) or (iv), or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Notes, including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses
SECTION 7. . This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
Effectiveness of this Agreement
SECTION 8. .
Indemnification
(a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees, agents and Affiliates, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent, Affiliate or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company or without the written consent of the Company in accordance with Section 8(d)), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not
Indemnification of the Underwriters
 
misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent, Affiliate and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by RBS) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent, Affiliate or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; provided, however, that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
(b) . Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter or without the written consent of the Company in accordance with Section 8(d)), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based upon any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or arises out of or is based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expense reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information that the Underwriters have furnished to the Company expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in the third, eighth and ninth full paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers
 
(c) Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures. Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability hereunder if it is not materially prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that a conflict may arise between the positions of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in conducting the defense of any such action or that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party or parties. Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless (i) the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (other than local counsel), approved by the indemnifying party (RBS in the case of Section 8(b) and Section 9), representing all indemnified parties who are parties to such action) or (ii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, in each of which cases the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
(d) . The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this Section 8, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified
Settlements
 
party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
SECTION 9. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Notes as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Contribution
The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of
 
fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A. For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company with the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
SECTION 10. . If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Notes, which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion to the aggregate principal amounts of such Notes set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Notes and the aggregate principal amount of such Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Section 4, Section 6, Section 8, Section 9, Section 12 and Section 16 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters
As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
SECTION 11. . Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or by The NASDAQ Global Select Market, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market or the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such
Termination of this Agreement
 
stock exchanges by the Commission or FINRA; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any of federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market, sell or deliver the Notes in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; (iv) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall have occurred any Material Adverse Change; or (v) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability on the part of (a) the Company to any Underwriter, except that the Company shall be obligated to reimburse the expenses of the Representatives and the Underwriters pursuant to Sections 4 and 6 hereof, (b) any Underwriter to the Company, or (c) of any party hereto to any other party except that the provisions of Section 8, Section 9, Section 12 and Section 16 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
SECTION 12. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling the Underwriter, the Company, the officers or employees of the Company, or any person controlling the Company, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Notes and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery
SECTION 13. . All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
Notices
If to the Representatives:
Banc of America Securities LLC
Bank of America Tower
One Bryant Park
NY1-100-18-03
New York, New York 10036
Facsimile: (212) 901-7881
Attention: High Grade Debt Capital Markets Transaction Management / Legal
and
RBS Securities Inc.
600 Washington Boulevard
Stamford, Connecticut 06901
Facsimile: (203) 873-4534
Attention: Debt Capital Markets Syndicate
 
with a copy to:
Mayer Brown LLP
71 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, IL 60606-4637
Facsimile: (312) 706-8106
Attention: Edward S. Best
If to the Company:
Mattel, Inc.
333 Continental Boulevard
El Segundo, CA 90245-5021
Facsimile: (310) 252-2567
Attention: Robert Normile
with a copy to:
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
1888 Century Park East, Suite 2100
Los Angeles, California 90067-1725
Facsimile: (310) 712-8800
Attention: Alison S. Ressler and Patrick S. Brown
Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
SECTION 14. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Section 8 and Section 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Notes as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
Successors
SECTION 15. . The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Partial Unenforceability
SECTION 16. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE.
Governing Law Provisions
 
SECTION 17. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
No Fiduciary Duty
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
SECTION 18. . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
General Provisions
Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
The foregoing Underwriting
Agreement is hereby confirmed
and accepted by the
Representatives as of the date
first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
EXHIBIT B-1
EXHIBIT B-2
 
EXHIBIT C
 
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, Banc of America Securities LLC and RBS Securities Inc. can arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling or e-mailing Banc of America Securities LLC at 1-800-294-1322 or or calling RBS Securities Inc. at 1-866-884-2071.
www.sec.gov
dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com
 

Exhibit 4.1
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO MATTEL, INC., OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
 
MATTEL, INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of TWO HUNDRED FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS ($250,000,000) on October 1, 2020, and to pay interest thereon from September 28, 2010, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing April 1, 2011. Interest will accrue at the rate of 4.350% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest, which shall be the March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such regular record date and may either be paid to the person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such special record date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Interest on this Security shall be calculated on a pro rata basis using twelve 30-day months and a 360-day year.
In the event that an Interest Payment Date is not a Business Day, interest will be paid on the next day that is a Business Day, with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date, and without any interest or other payment with respect to the delay. If the date of Stated Maturity for the principal falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment of the principal amount of this Security will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest will accrue for the period from and after such date of Stated Maturity. "Business Day," with respect to this Security, is a day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or any other day on which banking institutions in the City of New York or the City of Los Angeles generally are authorized or required by law or executive order to close.
 
The Trustee shall act as Paying Agent with respect to the Securities of this series.
Payment of the principal of and interest on this Security shall be payable at the Corporate Trust Office of Union Bank, N.A., located at 120 South San Pedro Street, Fourth Floor, Los Angeles, California 90012 or at such other office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Los Angeles, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company, interest may be paid by check mailed to the address of the person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Security Register or by transfer to an account maintained by the payee with a bank located in the United States; and, , , that so long as this Security is registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, principal and interest payments will be paid to DTC or its nominee, as the Holder, by wire transfer in same-day funds.
provided
however
provided
further
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof, directly or through an authenticating agent, by manual signature of an authorized signatory, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
I W W, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
N
ITNESS
HEREOF
Dated: September 28, 2010
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: September 28, 2010
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of September 23, 2010 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and Union Bank, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof.
The Company may redeem all or part of the Securities herein issued at any time or from time to time at its option at a redemption price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date or (2) a "Make-Whole Amount" for the Securities being redeemed.
"Make-Whole Amount" means the sum, as determined by a Quotation Agent (as defined below), of the present values of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed, together with scheduled payments of interest (exclusive of interest to the redemption date) from the redemption date to the Stated Maturity of the Securities discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis, assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Adjusted Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the Securities being redeemed to the redemption date.
"Adjusted Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15 (519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (as defined below) (if no maturity is within three months before or after the remaining term of the Securities, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Adjusted Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (ii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per year equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price (as defined below) for such redemption date, in each case calculated on the third Business Day preceding the redemption date, plus 25 basis points.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term from the redemption date to the Stated Maturity of the Securities that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, if clause (ii) of the definition of Adjusted Treasury Rate is applicable, the average of three, or such lesser number as is obtained by the Trustee, Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date.
"Quotation Agent" means one Reference Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealers" means Banc of America Securities LLC and RBS Securities Inc. and any successor thereto and/or any other primary United States Government securities dealers selected by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by a Reference Treasury Dealer, of the bid and asking prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, quoted in writing to the trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Notice of redemption will be mailed by first class mail to Holders of Securities, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption, all as provided in the Indenture.
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below), unless all Securities have been called for redemption by the Company as provided herein, each Holder of Securities shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Securities pursuant to the offer described herein below (the "Change of Control Offer") at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount of such Securities plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any, to the date of repurchase, subject to the rights of Holders of Securities on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date (the "Change of Control Payment").
Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control but after the public announcement of the pending Change of Control, the Company shall send, by first-class mail, a notice to each Holder of Securities, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer. Such notice shall state, among other things, the CUSIP number for the Securities, that any Security not tendered will continue to accrue interest, and the purchase date, which shall be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed, other than as required by law (the "Change of Control Payment Date"). The notice, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, shall state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control being consummated on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date. Holders of Securities electing to have Securities purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender their Securities, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of this Security completed, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice, or transfer their Securities to the Paying Agent by book-entry transfer pursuant to the applicable procedures of the Paying Agent, prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
 
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change in Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations herein relating to such Change of Control obligations by virtue of such conflict.
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful: (i) accept for payment all Securities or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; (ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Securities so accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Securities or portions of Securities being purchased by the Company.
The Paying Agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Securities properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Securities, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Security equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Securities surrendered, if any; provided that each new Security will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The Company will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth herein applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following:
(1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person, other than to the Company or one of its subsidiaries;
 
(2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock (as defined below) or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
(3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
(4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Company cease to be Continuing Directors; or
(5) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company. The term "person," as used in this definition, has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means the Securities are rated below an Investment Grade Rating (as defined below) by each of the Rating Agencies (as defined below) on the 60th day following the occurrence of a Change of Control (which date shall be extended if the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies on such 60th day, such extension to last until the date on which the Rating Agency considering such possible downgrade either (x) rates the Securities below an Investment Grade Rating or (y) publicly announces that it is no longer considering the Securities for possible downgrade; , that no such extension shall occur if any of the Rating Agencies rates the Securities with an Investment Grade Rating that is not subject to review for possible downgrade on such 60th day).
provided
 
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
"Continuing Director" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who:
(1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Securities; or
(2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Fitch" means Fitch, Inc. and its successors.
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, or, in each case, if such Rating Agency ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, the equivalent investment grade credit rating by the replacement agency selected by the Company in accordance with the procedures described herein.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
"Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
There is no sinking fund for the Securities of this series.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness on this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case, upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Security of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture, this Security or for any remedy thereunder, unless (i) such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, (ii) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of this series shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and (iii) the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal of the outstanding Securities of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; , , that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal or any interest on this Security on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
provided
however
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiples of $1,000. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, but without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to the repurchase offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event, check the box below:
If you want to elect to have only part of the Security purchased by the Company pursuant to the repurchase offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
$
            
Date:
                    
 
 
 
 
 
Date:
                    
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO MATTEL, INC., OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
 
MATTEL, INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of TWO HUNDRED FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS ($250,000,000) on October 1, 2040, and to pay interest thereon from September 28, 2010, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing April 1, 2011. Interest will accrue at the rate of 6.200% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest, which shall be the March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such regular record date and may either be paid to the person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such special record date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Interest on this Security shall be calculated on a pro rata basis using twelve 30-day months and a 360-day year.
In the event that an Interest Payment Date is not a Business Day, interest will be paid on the next day that is a Business Day, with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date, and without any interest or other payment with respect to the delay. If the date of Stated Maturity for the principal falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment of the principal amount of this Security will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest will accrue for the period from and after such date of Stated Maturity. "Business Day," with respect to this Security, is a day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or any other day on which banking institutions in the City of New York or the City of Los Angeles generally are authorized or required by law or executive order to close.
 
The Trustee shall act as Paying Agent with respect to the Securities of this series.
Payment of the principal of and interest on this Security shall be payable at the Corporate Trust Office of Union Bank, N.A., located at 120 South San Pedro Street, Fourth Floor, Los Angeles, California 90012 or at such other office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Los Angeles, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company, interest may be paid by check mailed to the address of the person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Security Register or by transfer to an account maintained by the payee with a bank located in the United States; and, , , that so long as this Security is registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, principal and interest payments will be paid to DTC or its nominee, as the Holder, by wire transfer in same-day funds.
provided
however
provided
further
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof, directly or through an authenticating agent, by manual signature of an authorized signatory, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
I W W, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
N
ITNESS
HEREOF
Dated: September 28, 2010
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: September 28, 2010
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of September 23, 2010 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and Union Bank, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof.
The Company may redeem all or part of the Securities herein issued at any time or from time to time at its option at a redemption price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date or (2) a "Make-Whole Amount" for the Securities being redeemed.
"Make-Whole Amount" means the sum, as determined by a Quotation Agent (as defined below), of the present values of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed, together with scheduled payments of interest (exclusive of interest to the redemption date) from the redemption date to the Stated Maturity of the Securities discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis, assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Adjusted Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the Securities being redeemed to the redemption date.
"Adjusted Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15 (519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (as defined below) (if no maturity is within three months before or after the remaining term of the Securities, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Adjusted Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (ii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per year equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price (as defined below) for such redemption date, in each case calculated on the third Business Day preceding the redemption date, plus 40 basis points.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term
 
from the redemption date to the Stated Maturity of the Securities that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, if clause (ii) of the definition of Adjusted Treasury Rate is applicable, the average of three, or such lesser number as is obtained by the Trustee, Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date.
"Quotation Agent" means one Reference Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealers" means Banc of America Securities LLC and RBS Securities Inc. and any successor thereto and/or any other primary United States Government securities dealers selected by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by a Reference Treasury Dealer, of the bid and asking prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, quoted in writing to the trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Notice of redemption will be mailed by first class mail to Holders of Securities, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption, all as provided in the Indenture.
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below), unless all Securities have been called for redemption by the Company as provided herein, each Holder of Securities shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Securities pursuant to the offer described herein below (the "Change of Control Offer") at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount of such Securities plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any, to the date of repurchase, subject to the rights of Holders of Securities on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date (the "Change of Control Payment").
Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control but after the public announcement of the pending Change of Control, the Company shall send, by first-class mail, a notice to each Holder of Securities, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer. Such notice shall state, among other things, the CUSIP number for the Securities, that any Security not tendered will continue to accrue interest, and the purchase date, which shall be no earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed, other than as
 
required by law (the "Change of Control Payment Date"). The notice, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, shall state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control being consummated on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date. Holders of Securities electing to have Securities purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender their Securities, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of this Security completed, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice, or transfer their Securities to the Paying Agent by book-entry transfer pursuant to the applicable procedures of the Paying Agent, prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change in Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control provisions, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations herein relating to such Change of Control obligations by virtue of such conflict.
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful: (i) accept for payment all Securities or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer; (ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered; and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Securities so accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Securities or portions of Securities being purchased by the Company.
The Paying Agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Securities properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Securities, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Security equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Securities surrendered, if any; provided that each new Security will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The Company will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth herein applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following:
(1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person, other than to the Company or one of its subsidiaries;
 
(2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock (as defined below) or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
(3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
(4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Company cease to be Continuing Directors; or
(5) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company. The term "person," as used in this definition, has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means the Securities are rated below an Investment Grade Rating (as defined below) by each of the Rating Agencies (as defined below) on the 60th day following the occurrence of a Change of Control (which date shall be extended if the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies on such 60th day, such extension to last until the date on which the Rating Agency considering such possible downgrade either (x) rates the Securities below an Investment Grade Rating or
 
(y) publicly announces that it is no longer considering the Securities for possible downgrade; , that no such extension shall occur if any of the Rating Agencies rates the Securities with an Investment Grade Rating that is not subject to review for possible downgrade on such 60th day).
provided
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
"Continuing Director" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who:
(1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Securities; or
(2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Fitch" means Fitch, Inc. and its successors.
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, or, in each case, if such Rating Agency ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, the equivalent investment grade credit rating by the replacement agency selected by the Company in accordance with the procedures described herein.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
"Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Fitch, Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
There is no sinking fund for the Securities of this series.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness on this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case, upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Security of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture, this Security or for any remedy thereunder, unless (i) such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, (ii) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of this series shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and (iii) the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal of the outstanding Securities of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; , , that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal or any interest on this Security on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
provided
however
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiples of $1,000. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, but without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to the repurchase offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event, check the box below:
If you want to elect to have only part of the Security purchased by the Company pursuant to the repurchase offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
$
            
Date:
                    
 
 
 
 
 
Date:
                    
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
September 28, 2010            
Mattel, Inc.,
333 Continental Boulevard,
El Segundo, California 90245-5021.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
In connection with the registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act") of $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.350% Notes due 2020 and $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.200% Notes due 2040 (collectively, the "Securities") of Mattel, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Mattel"), we, as your counsel, have examined such corporate records, certificates and other documents, and such questions of law, as we have considered necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this opinion.
Upon the basis of such examination, we advise you that, in our opinion, when the Securities have been duly executed and authenticated in accordance with the applicable indenture and issued and sold, the Securities will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of Mattel, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
The foregoing opinion is limited to the Federal laws of the United States and the laws of the States of New York, California and Delaware, and we are expressing no opinion as to the effect of the laws of any other jurisdiction.
We have relied as to certain matters on information obtained from public officials, officers of Mattel and other sources believed by us to be responsible, and we have assumed that the indenture relating to the Securities has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the trustee thereunder, an assumption we have not independently verified.
 
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on the date hereof, and thereby incorporated by reference as an exhibit to the Registration Statement (File No. 333-169539) relating to the Securities, and to the references to us under the headings "Validity of the Securities" in the Prospectus that is a part thereof and under the heading "Validity of the Notes" in the Prospectus Supplement relating to the Securities. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act.
 

Exhibit 99.1
The expenses to be incurred by the Company relating to the registration and offering of $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.350% Notes due 2020 and $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.200% Notes due 2040 pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-169539) and a related prospectus supplement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 23, 2010 are estimated to be as follows:
 


