FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20100416060639.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 16, 2010, Mattel issued a press release regarding its first quarter 2010 financial results, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
In its first quarter 2010 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 16, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
First Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., April 16, 2010  Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAT) today reported 2010 first quarter financial results. For the quarter, the company reported net income of $24.8 million, or $0.07 per share, compared to last year's first quarter net loss of $51.0 million, or $0.14 per share.
"I am pleased with the performance across our portfolio of brands, including our core brands and our licensed evergreen brands, especially our newest properties World Wrestling Entertainment, Thomas and Friends, and Toy Story," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "I am also pleased with our continued success in identifying and executing programs that are generating efficiencies across the organization."
Financial Overview
For the quarter, net sales were $880.1 million, up 12 percent compared to $785.6 million last year, including favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 3 percentage points. On a regional basis, first quarter gross sales increased 12 percent in the U.S. and increased 12 percent in international markets, including favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 7 percentage points. Operating income for the quarter was $45.2 million, compared to prior year's operating loss for the quarter of $55.2 million.
 
MATTEL REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2010 RESULTS/PAGE 2 2 2
 
The company's debt-to-total-capital ratio was 22.4 percent. Consistent with the seasonality of the business, during the quarter the company's cash and equivalents declined by approximately $245 million, compared with a decline of approximately $213 million in last year's first quarter.
Sales by Business Unit
Mattel Girls and Boys Brands
For the first quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands business unit were $573.1 million, up 14 percent versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were up 5 percent. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 21 percent, driven by the Disney Princess
TM
doll line. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were up 3 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Radica and Games and Puzzles, were up 35 percent for the quarter, primarily driven by growth in the World Wrestling Entertainment and Toy Story properties, as well as core games.
Fisher-Price Brands
First quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price Core, Fisher-Price Friends and Power Wheels brands, were $316.2 million, or up 11 percent versus the prior year, primarily driven by sales of products supporting the evergreen entertainment property, Thomas and Friends, added to the portfolio in 2010, and growth in Fisher-Price Core.
American Girl Brands
First quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products directly to consumers, were $70.2 million, up 6 percent versus last year, primarily driven by strong sales of Lanie
TM
, the 2010 Girl of the Year.
Live Webcast
Mattel will webcast its 2010 first quarter financial results conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time (5:30 a.m. Pacific time) today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Web site, www.mattel.com. To listen to the live call, log on to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's Web site for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call.
 
MATTEL REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2010 RESULTS/PAGE 3 3 3
 
A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time the morning of the call, until midnight Eastern time on April 20th and may be accessed by dialing + 1 (706) 645-9291. The passcode is 61632801.
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of http://corporate.mattel.com/, under the sub-headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
About Mattel
Mattel, Inc., (NASDAQ: MAT, www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radica and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. In 2010, Mattel is named as one of FORTUNE Magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For" for the third year in a row, and was ranked among Corporate Responsibility Magazine's "100 Best Corporate Citizens." Mattel also is recognized among the "World's Most Ethical Companies." With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs approximately 27,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations.
MAT-FIN
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


