FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20111014060523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 14, 2011, Mattel issued a press release regarding its third quarter 2011 financial results, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
In its third quarter 2011 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
In the same press release described in Item 2.02 above, Mattel also announced that the Company's Board of Directors has authorized the Company to increase its previously announced share repurchase program by $500 million.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
In the same press release described in Item 2.02 above, Mattel also announced that the Company's Board of Directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $0.23 per share on the Company's common stock, to be paid on December 16, 2011 to stockholders of record on November 30, 2011.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 14, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Third Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital Deployment
 
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., October 14, 2011  Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAT) today reported 2011 third quarter financial results. For the quarter, the company reported net income of $300.8 million, or $0.86 per share, compared to last year's third quarter net income of $283.3 million, or $0.77 per share.
"We continue to be pleased with our performance across our portfolio of brands in all of the regions of the world. Not only have we continued to benefit from the strength of our core brands, but this year's big entertainment property, CARS 2, is also fueling momentum," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "As we enter into the all-important holiday season, we remain keenly focused on execution and delivering growth in our core brands, working to expand and leverage our international footprint, optimizing our entertainment portfolio, and building our newest franchise, Monster High."
Mattel Reports Third Quarter 2011 Results/Page 2 2 2
 
Financial Overview
For the quarter, net sales were $2.0 billion, up 9 percent compared to $1.83 billion last year, including favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. On a regional basis, third quarter gross sales increased 6 percent in the U.S. and increased 13 percent in international markets, including favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 5 percentage points. Operating income for the quarter was $397.6 million, compared to prior year's operating income for the quarter of $358.6 million.
The company's debt-to-total-capital ratio was 33.0 percent. Consistent with the seasonality of the business, net cash flows used for operating activities were approximately $322 million in the first nine months of 2011, a decrease of $106 million, compared with a use of approximately $428 million in the same period in 2010.
Cash flows used for financing and other activities were $586 million in the first nine months of 2011, compared to cash flows from financing and other activities of approximately $361 million in the same period in 2010, primarily reflecting increased debt repayments consistent with scheduled maturities, dividend payments and increased share repurchases in 2011, as well as the issuance of $500 million of senior unsecured notes in the third quarter of 2010.
During the third quarter of 2011, the company repurchased approximately 6.6 million shares of its common stock at a cost of approximately $173 million.
Sales by Business Unit
Mattel Girls and Boys Brands
For the third quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands business unit were $1.34 billion, up 15 percent versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were up 17 percent. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 32 percent, driven by the Monster High and Disney Princess doll lines. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels business, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were up 2 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Radica and Games and Puzzles, were up 14 percent for the quarter, primarily driven by growth in the CARS 2 property.
 
Mattel Reports Third Quarter 2011 Results/Page 3 3 3
 
Fisher-Price Brands
Third quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price Core, Fisher-Price Friends and Power Wheels brands, were $748.9 million, up 1 percent versus the prior year, primarily driven by sales of Infant products.
American Girl Brands
Third quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products directly to consumers, were $87.6 million, up 4 percent versus last year, primarily reflecting sales of products related to Kanani, the 2011 Girl of the Year.
Quarterly Dividend
Additionally, the company announced today that its Board of Directors declared a fourth quarter cash dividend of $0.23 per share on the Company's common stock. The dividend will be payable on December 16, 2011 to stockholders of record on November 30, 2011. The dividend is the fourth of four quarterly dividends the Company will pay this year, reflecting an annualized dividend of $0.92 per share, which represents an increase of $0.09 per share, or 11 percent, versus last year's annual dividend of $0.83 per share.
Increase in Share Repurchase Program
The Mattel Board of Directors authorized the company to increase its previously announced share repurchase program by $500 million. Repurchases will take place from time to time, depending on market conditions.
The share repurchase program is one component of the company's capital and investment framework which was announced in February 2003. Under the program, Mattel has repurchased approximately 144.7 million shares of its common stock for an aggregate of approximately $3.0 billion.
 
Mattel Reports Third Quarter 2011 Results/Page 4 4 4
 
Live Webcast
Mattel will webcast its 2011 third quarter financial results conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Web site: http://corporate.mattel.com/. To listen to the live call, log on to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's Web site for the next 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time on October 14 until Tuesday, October 18 at midnight Eastern time and may be accessed by dialing + 1 (404) 537-3406. The passcode is 99034862.
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of http://corporate.mattel.com/, under the sub-headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
About Mattel
Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ: - ) () is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radica and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. In 2011, Mattel was named as one of FORTUNE Magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For" for the fourth year in a row, and was also ranked among Corporate Responsibility Magazine's "100 Best Corporate Citizens." With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs approximately 31,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations. At Mattel, we are "Creating the Future of Play." Follow Mattel on Facebook:
MAT
News
www.mattel.com
www.facebook.com/mattel
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to the Company's expected 2011 financial performance. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial, economic and other information and are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties. A variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, could cause actual future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Some of these factors are described in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section of Mattel's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and Mattel's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for fiscal year 2011, as well as in Mattel's other public statements. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
 
 
WORLDWIDE GROSS SALES INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW DATA (Unaudited)
 


