FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20110415060702.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 15, 2011, Mattel issued a press release regarding its first quarter 2011 financial results, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
In its first quarter 2011 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
In the same press release described in Item 2.02 above, Mattel also announced that the Company's Board of Directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $0.23 per share on the Company's common stock, to be paid on June 17, 2011 to stockholders of record on May 25, 2011.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 15, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
First Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital Deployment
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., April 15, 2011  Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAT) today reported 2011 first quarter financial results. For the quarter, the company reported net income of $16.6 million, or $0.05 per share, compared to last year's first quarter net income of $24.8 million, or $0.07 per share.
"Our diverse portfolio of brands and countries has once again allowed us to deliver on our goal of consistent growth," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "Additionally, we are well positioned to improve operating margin and deliver strong cash flow for the year."
Mattel Reports First Quarter 2011 Results/Page 2 2 2
 
Financial Overview
For the quarter, net sales were $951.9 million, up 8 percent compared to $880.1 million last year, including favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. On a regional basis, first quarter gross sales increased 7 percent in the U.S. and 10 percent in international markets, including favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. Operating income for the quarter was $36.8 million, compared to prior year's operating income for the quarter of $45.2 million.
The company's debt-to-total-capital ratio was 32.3 percent. Consistent with the seasonality of the business, during the quarter the company's cash and equivalents declined by approximately $232 million, compared with a decline of approximately $245 million in last year's first quarter.
Net cash flows used for operating activities were approximately $42 million, a decrease of $203 million compared with approximately $245 million in 2010. The decrease is primarily due to the collection of $300 million of domestic receivables not factored in 2010, partially offset by higher working capital usage.
Cash flows used for financing and other activities were $181 million, a decrease of $216 million, compared to approximately $35 million provided by financing activities in 2010, primarily reflecting share repurchases and first quarter dividend payments.
Sales by Business Unit
Mattel Girls and Boys Brands
For the first quarter, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands business unit were $656.4 million, up 15 percent versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were up 14 percent. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 38 percent, driven by the Monster High and Disney Princess doll lines. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were up 4 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Radica and Games and Puzzles, were up 13 percent for the quarter, primarily driven by growth in the CARS, Green Lantern and Toy Story properties.
 
Mattel Reports First Quarter 2011 Results/Page 3 3 3
 
Fisher-Price Brands
First quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price Core, Fisher-Price Friends and Power Wheels brands, were $309.9 million, or down 2 percent versus the prior year due primarily to the discontinuation of the Sesame Street product line.
American Girl Brands
First quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products directly to consumers, were $73.0 million, up 4 percent versus last year, primarily driven by strong sales of Kanani, Girl of the Year 2011.
Quarterly Dividend
Additionally, the Company announced today that its Board of Directors declared a second quarter cash dividend of $0.23 per share on the Company's common stock. The dividend will be payable on June 17, 2011 to stockholders of record on May 25, 2011. The dividend is the second of four quarterly dividends the Company expects to pay this year, reflecting an annualized dividend of $0.92 per share, which represents an increase of $0.09, or 11 percent, versus last year's annual dividend of $0.83 per share.
Live Webcast
Mattel will webcast its 2011 first quarter financial results conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Web site: http://corporate.mattel.com/. To listen to the live call, log on to the Web site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's Web site for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time the morning of the call, until midnight Eastern time on April 19th and may be accessed by dialing (706) 645-9291. The passcode is 51468985.
 
Mattel Reports First Quarter 2011 Results/Page 4 4 4
 
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of http://corporate.mattel.com/, under the sub-headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
About Mattel
Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ: - ) () is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radica and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. In 2011, Mattel was named as one of FORTUNE Magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For" for the fourth year in a row, and was also ranked among Corporate Responsibility Magazine's "100 Best Corporate Citizens". With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs approximately 31,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations. At Mattel, we are "Creating the Future of Play." Follow Mattel on Facebook:
MAT
News
www.mattel.com
www.facebook.com/mattel
Note: This press release contains a forward-looking statements relating to the Company's expected financial performance and expected quarterly cash dividend payments in 2011. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial, economic and other information and are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties. A variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, could cause actual future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward looking statements. Some of these factors are described in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section of Mattel's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and Mattel's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for fiscal year 2011, as well as in Mattel's other public statements. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


