FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20110106163201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 5, 2011, Mattel, Inc. (the "Company") announced the following actions concerning the Company's executive officers:
 
 
A copy of a press release issued by the Company announcing these changes is attached as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Mr. Stockton, age 57, has served as President, International since November 2007. He served as Executive Vice President, International from February 2003 to November 2007. He served as Executive Vice President, Business Planning and Development from November 2000 until February 2003. From April 1998 until November 2000, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Basic Vegetable Products, the largest manufacturer of vegetable ingredients in the world. For more than 20 years prior to that, he was employed by Kraft Foods, Inc., the largest packaged food company in North America, and was President of Kraft North American Food Service from August 1996 to March 1998.
In connection with Mr. Stockton's promotion, his annual base salary will increase from $750,000 to $1,000,000, with an annual target bonus of 85% of base salary. In addition, Mr. Stockton has received a special grant of 39,557 restricted stock units, vesting 50% on the second anniversary of the grant date and the remaining 50% on the third anniversary of the grant date.
The Company anticipates that, in accordance with the terms of Mr. Friedman's existing employment agreement with the Company, Mr. Friedman will be eligible to receive a cash severance payment of approximately $8 million, as well as various other severance benefits. Such severance amounts will be reflected in fourth quarter 2010 results.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 6, 2011
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99
EL SEGUNDO, Calif.(BUSINESS WIRE) Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ:MAT) today announced the appointment of Bryan Stockton, Mattel's president of International, to the new position of chief operating officer (COO), effective immediately. This action further aligns Mattel's senior leadership team with the company's global strategic initiative to be the largest, most profitable and fastest growing toy company. Stockton will report to Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel, as will Mattel's Finance, Legal and Human Resources functions.
The company also announced that Neil Friedman, president of Mattel Brands, will be leaving the company in March 2011.
"In the last 10 years, Mattel has built the largest and strongest brand portfolio in the industry, commanding industry-leading gross margins and an unparalleled global footprint," said Eckert. "I am confident that the appointment of Bryan as COO will help drive innovation, sustainable growth across brands and countries, and further leverage our scale and global structure as the world's largest toy company."
As COO, Stockton will have responsibility for day-to-day operations of the company, which include overseeing the design, development, marketing and sale of all Mattel toy brands globally, such as Barbie, Hot Wheels, American Girl and Fisher-Price, as well as licensed entertainment properties; the Mattel Digital Network; and other operating functions including Operations and Corporate Responsibility.
Since 2003, Stockton has led Mattel's International division. Under his management, the International teams marked record-breaking growth, as well as increased International's total contribution to Mattel's annual sales from 36 percent to almost 50 percent of total
sales. Stockton joined Mattel in November 2000 as executive vice president of Business Planning and Development, responsible for identifying and developing strategic opportunities.
Eckert continued, "Bryan has an impressive track record at Mattel and I want to congratulate him on his new responsibilities. I also would like to thank Neil for his many years of service to Mattel and in particular for his contributions to the company's strong performance in recent years. Neil has been recognized by the toy industry in many ways over the years, including inductions into both the Toy Industry and the Licensing halls of fame. Neil has spent more than 35 years ensuring play is magical for children, building strong relationships in business and paving the way for the next generation of Mattel leadership."
About Mattel
Mattel, Inc., (NASDAQ: MAT) () is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radica and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. In 2010, Mattel was named as one of FORTUNE Magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For" for the third year in a row, and was ranked among Corporate Responsibility Magazine's "100 Best Corporate Citizens." Mattel also is recognized among the "World's Most Ethical Companies." With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs approximately 27,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations. At Mattel, we are "Creating the Future of Play."
www.mattel.com
MAT-CORP
Photos/Multimedia Gallery Available:
http://www.businesswire.com/cgi-bin/mmg.cgi?eid=6561736&lang=en
Mattel, Inc.
News Media
Lisa Marie Bongiovanni, 310-252-3524
LisaMarie.Bongiovanni@mattel.com
or
Securities Analysts
Dianne Douglas, 310-252-2703
Dianne.Douglas@mattel.com
Source: Mattel, Inc.
News Provided by Acquire Media


