FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20110202060902.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 2, 2011, Mattel issued a press release regarding its fourth quarter and full-year 2010 financial results, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
In its fourth quarter and full-year 2010 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 in this Form 8-K.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 2, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full-Year Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quarterly Dividend
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., February 2, 2011  Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ:MAT) today reported 2010 fourth quarter and full-year financial results. For the fourth quarter, the company reported net income of $325.2 million, or $0.89 per share, compared to last year's fourth quarter net income of $328.4 million, or $0.89 per share. For the year, the company reported net income of $684.9 million, or $1.86 per share, compared to last year's net income of $528.7 million, or $1.45 per share.
"I am pleased with our strong results for the quarter and the year, with revenue growth across brands and markets, and improved profitability," said Robert A. Eckert, chairman and chief executive officer of Mattel. "Our priority for 2011 is to accelerate our performance by inculcating our new vision and implementing a new organizational structure; uncovering the next layer of cost cutting opportunities; generating significant cash flow; and deploying capital in a disciplined and opportunistic manner."
 
MATTEL REPORTS 2010 FINANCIAL RESULTS/PAGE 2 2 2 2
 
Financial Overview
For the fourth quarter, net sales were $2.12 billion, a 9 percent increase from $1.96 billion last year, and included an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. On a regional basis, fourth quarter gross sales were up 11 percent in the U.S. and were up 6 percent in international markets, which included an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 5 percentage points. Operating income for the quarter was $428.6 million, or 20.2 percent of net sales.
For the year, net sales were $5.86 billion, an 8 percent increase from $5.43 billion last year, and included an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. On a regional basis, full-year gross sales were up 9 percent in the U.S. and were up 6 percent in international markets, which included an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 4 percentage points. Operating income for the year was $901.9 million, or 15.4 percent of net sales, compared to the prior year of 13.5 percent of net sales.
The company's debt-to-total-capital ratio of 31.3 percent is in line with the company's capital and investment framework, and its year-end cash balance was $1.28 billion.
Net cash flows from operating activities were approximately $528 million, a decrease of $417 million compared with approximately $945 million in 2009. The decrease is primarily due to the decision not to factor $300 million of domestic receivables in 2010, as well as growth in accounts receivable due to increased sales volumes, and the rebuild of inventory, partially offset by higher net income. Inventory levels increased to support point of sale momentum and improve customer service levels as compared to a significant liquidation of inventories in 2009 due to economic uncertainty. Cash flows used for financing and other activities were $217 million, a decrease of $195 million, compared with $412 million in 2009, primarily reflecting proceeds from third quarter debt issuance of $500 million and lower debt maturities in 2010 of $100 million, partially offset by share repurchases of $447 million.
Mattel Girls & Boys Brands
Fourth quarter worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands business unit were $1.27 billion, up 9 percent versus a year ago. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were up 8 percent and worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 29 percent. Worldwide gross
 
MATTEL REPORTS 2010 FINANCIAL RESULTS/PAGE 3 3 3 3
 
sales for the Wheels business, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were down 4 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which includes Radica and Games and Puzzles, were up 12 percent for the quarter.
For the year, worldwide gross sales for the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands business unit were $3.66 billion, or up 11 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were up 7 percent. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 16 percent for the year. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels business, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were down 2 percent. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, including Radica and Games and Puzzles, were up 27 percent.
Fisher-Price Brands
Fourth quarter worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit, which includes the Fisher-Price Core, Fisher-Price Friends and Power Wheels brands, were $775.8 million, up 6 percent. For the year, worldwide gross sales for the Fisher-Price Brands business unit were $2.22 billion, up 2 percent.
American Girl Brands
Fourth quarter gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit, which offers American Girl branded products direct to consumers, were $273.2 million, up 8 percent. For the year, gross sales for the American Girl Brands business unit were $486.6 million, up 5 percent.
Quarterly Dividend
Additionally, the Company announced today that its Board of Directors declared a first quarter cash dividend of $0.23 per share on the Company's common stock. The dividend will be payable on March 11, 2011 to stockholders of record on February 24, 2011. The dividend is the first of four quarterly dividends the Company expects to make this year, reflecting an annualized dividend of $0.92 per share, which represents an increase of $0.09, or 11 percent versus last year's annual dividend of $0.83 per share.
Live Webcast
Mattel will webcast its 2010 fourth quarter and full-year financial results conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the company's corporate Web site: http://corporate.mattel.com/. To listen to the live call, log on to the Web
 
MATTEL REPORTS 2010 FINANCIAL RESULTS/PAGE 4 4 4 4
 
site at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's Web site for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time the morning of the call, until Tuesday, February 8, at midnight Eastern time and may be accessed by dialing (706) 645-9291. The passcode is 35308770.
Presentation slides relating to the conference call, information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of http://corporate.mattel.com/, under the sub-headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
About Mattel
Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ: - ) () is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radica and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. In 2011, Mattel was named as one of FORTUNE Magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For" for the fourth year in a row. Mattel also is ranked among Corporate Responsibility Magazine's "100 Best Corporate Citizens" and the "World's Most Ethical Companies." With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs approximately 31,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations. At Mattel, we are "Creating the Future of Play." Follow Mattel on Facebook:
MAT
News
www.mattel.com
www.facebook.com/mattel
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to the Company's priorities for 2011 and expected quarterly cash dividend payments in 2011. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial, economic and other information and are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties. A variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, could cause actual future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward looking statements. Some of these factors are described in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section of Mattel's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 and Mattel's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for fiscal year 2010, as well as in Mattel's other public statements. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
MAT-FIN
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW DATA (Unaudited)
 


