FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20120314160459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 14, 2012, the Board of Directors of Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel") elected Trevor A. Edwards as a new director of Mattel, effective immediately. The election will increase the number of Mattel directors from 13 to 14. In accordance with Mattel's director compensation program, Mr. Edwards will be entitled to a retainer of $25,000 and a grant of restricted stock units valued at $25,000 (based on the closing price of Mattel's common stock on the grant date of March 14, 2012), which represents a pro-ration of the annual director compensation based on the number of months (including partial months) he will serve from March 2012 to the date of Mattel's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. If Mr. Edwards is re-elected by the stockholders at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, he will receive a retainer of $100,000 and a grant of restricted stock units valued at $120,000 (based on the closing price of Mattel's common stock on the date of Mattel's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders), in accordance with Mattel's director compensation program.
Mr. Edwards, 49, has served as Vice President, Global Brand & Category Management of NIKE, Inc. ("Nike") since August 2006. Mr. Edwards served as Vice President, Global Brand Management of Nike from September 2002 to August 2006, and before that, as Vice President, U.S Brand Marketing from 2000 to 2002, and as Vice President, EMEA Marketing from 1999 to 2000. He has more than two decades of marketing and global brand management experience at Nike, where he is currently responsible for helping to drive the Nike Brand growth strategy by leading its category business units and overseeing all brand management functions.
Mr. Edwards has not yet been named to a committee of the Board of Directors.
There are no transactions between Mr. Edwards and Mattel that would be reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
On March 14, 2012, Mattel issued a press release regarding the election of Mr. Edwards to the Board of Directors, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
This exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 hereof and should not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Immediate Release
 
Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ:MAT) announced today that Trevor A. Edwards, 49, vice president, global brand and category management for NIKE, Inc. was elected to the Mattel Board of Directors on March 14, 2012.
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., March 14, 2012 
"As we focus on our key goals and strategy for growth, Trevor's notable experience in brand management and his unique perspective will complement our already strong and diverse Board," said Bryan G. Stockton, CEO of Mattel. "His expertise in all functions of brand management, especially with regard to innovation within the Nike portfolio of brands, will be invaluable to us maintaining our No. 1 position and strategic competitive advantage in the toy industry."
Edwards has more than two decades of marketing and global brand management experience at Nike, where he is currently responsible for helping to drive the Nike Brand growth strategy by leading its category business units. His leadership, strategy and management skills in overseeing all brand management functions, including digital and advertising, sports marketing, brand design, public relations and retail marketing, will bring a fresh and unique perspective to Mattel.
During his career at Nike, Edwards has led some of the brand's most significant break-through innovations, including spearheading the creation of Nike+, a revolutionary sports training experience that connects digitally-enabled footwear with digital services. He also helped transform the digital landscape and position Nike as a leader by using social media to connect with consumers globally.
Edwards serves on the Board of Directors of the Nike Foundation and Management Leadership for Tomorrow. He was named one of "100 Most Creative People in Business" in 2011, one of the "50 Most Powerful Blacks in Sports" by in 2005 and one of the "101 Most Influential Minorities in Sports" by in 2003-2004.
Fast Company's
Black Enterprise
Sports Illustrated
About Mattel
Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ:MAT) (www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radica and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Thomas & Friends, Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. In 2012, Mattel was named as one of FORTUNE Magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For" for the fifth year in a row. Mattel also is ranked among Corporate Responsibility Magazine's "100 Best Corporate Citizens" and the "World's Most Ethical Companies." With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs approximately 28,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations. At Mattel, we are "Creating the Future of Play." Follow Mattel on Facebook: www.facebook.com/mattel


